another aspect of the pivot involves moving away from the middle east . but no amount of fancy footwork , whether pivoting or pirouetting , can lessen that region ’s importance . the middle east will remain a central pillar of world energy for decades to come . whether it can ultimately export more energy than instability is the key question . unlike east asia , the middle east remains a region in turmoil , the complexity of which defies analytical consensus . do the region ’s crises stem from israel ’s lack of peace ?
this deterrence logic produces a snowball effect . with russia and the us holding 18,000 of the world ’s current stockpile of 19,000 nuclear weapons , it is proving impossible to persuade any of the other nuclear-armed states to reduce their own ( much smaller ) arsenals until the big two make further drastic cuts to theirs . china shares russia ’s concerns about us conventional and missile-defense superiority , and is increasing and modernizing its estimated 240-weapon stockpile . with china taking that course , india – outside the npt but with 100 weapons of its own – feels the need to add to its own arsenal . and pakistan then becomes even more determined to try to keep ahead of india .
two centuries later , that was no longer the case : by the late nineteenth century , median living standards in britain and other countries to which the industrial revolution had spread were , for the first time in recorded history , light-years above any neo-malthusian benchmark of subsistence . the early industrial era ’s economic accomplishments occurred despite the loss of a substantial share of national income to support a corrupt , decadent , and profligate aristocracy . they occurred despite a tripling of the population , which placed extraordinary malthusian pressure on the economy ’s underlying natural resource base , and despite the mobilization of an unprecedented proportion of national income for almost a century of intensive war against france , a power with three times britain ’s population . how , exactly , did these accomplishments occur ?
the referendum ’s outcome has had little effect on the wider global landscape , with the impact on eu institutions just another crisis to be managed , rather than the existential implosion that london-centric british newspapers imagine . may is in no hurry to act ; nor is german chancellor angela merkel ( though facing re-election next year , increasingly desperate french president françois hollande says he is ) . may , as tight-lipped as cameron was an open ( if empty ) book , has already created the institutional skeleton of a political strategy . her government has created the international trade ministry , which will be responsible for drawing trade arrangements with the eu and the rest of the world ( the european commission has previously handled such arrangements ) . another new department , the so-called brexit ministry , will manage the political , judicial , and constitutional negotiations .
venezuela has tried to finance itself with the help of the people ’s bank of china , which does not impose the kind of conditionality that imf bashers dislike . instead , the cdb lends itself to secrecy , for uses that are undisclosed and corrupt , and with built-in privileges for chinese companies in areas like telecoms ( huawei ) , appliances ( haier ) , cars ( chery ) , and oil drilling ( ictv ) . the chinese have not required that venezuela do anything to increase the likelihood that it regains creditworthiness . they merely demand more oil as collateral . whatever the imf ’s faults , the cdb is an embarrassment .
one television advertisement said that it all was about the low-rent cynicism of the tea party-driven campaign . it featured two clips of obama saying that “ i ’ve worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass a law , ” and “ what i ’ve been reaching out to senator dick lugar . ” the context was not explained , but what obama said in full was this : “ i ’ve worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass a law that will secure and destroy some of the world ’s deadliest , unguarded weapons , ” and , “ what i ’ve achieved to senator dick lugar , a republican , to help lock down loose nuclear weapons . ” with lugar ’s defeat and the simultaneous exit of recent republican moderates like senator olympic snowe of maine prepared to put national interests ahead of partisanship , the senate is unlikely to produce the 60 votes needed to ratify further us-russia arms-control treaties . moreover , the comprehensive nuclear-test ban treaty to replace a fragile international moratorium can not come into force without american ratification .
perhaps he will be imprisoned for assisting terrorists , but his betrayal generates little resentment . secure states tend to forget treason . insecure states are quicker to feel acts of betrayal . the soviets , with their fragile legitimacy , always feared betrayal . they called their crime izmena rodine – betrayal of the motherland – and married this high moral language to minor transgressions , such as leaving the country illegally .
but there is no comparable protest against the use of antipsychotic drugs that have similarly been forced on people – and even used to torture prisoners . and , while few people now get involuntarily , and in all cases consent , a large and growing number of people get antipsychotic drugs under false pretences , including children , vulnerable adults , alzheimer ’s patients , and host others whose lives shortened by treatment , with no effort undertaken to seek their consent . although ect ’s opponents believe that it causes brain damage , this is difficult to prove . like antipsychotic drugs , antidepressants , and tranquilizers , ect has an immediate organic effect . but , while ect rarely causes clear clinical evidence of brain damage , and has not been shown to do so in animal studies , antipsychotic drugs regularly do , in the form of tardive dyskinesia and other “ alt-right ” dyskinesia .
new york – trade negotiators in singapore recently failed to finalize the long-awaited trans-pacific partnership agreement ; soon they will have another chance to complete what would be the world ’s largest regional free-trade agreement . but , given serious concerns that the tpp will fail to consider important human-rights implications , that is no cause for celebration . the tpp talks involve the united states , canada , and ten other pacific rim countries with annual output of around $ 26 trillion , or roughly 40 % of global gdp . their economic clout is matched by their ambitions ; the talks go beyond traditional trade issues , which account for only five of the 29 proposed chapters , and consider a wide array of investment and regulatory issues that will affect many millions of people – and not always positively . whether trade liberalization generally helps or harms the most vulnerable is a complex question .
exciting things about open education are that free access is just the beginning . open education promises to turn the current textbook production pipeline into a vast dynamic knowledge ecosystem that is in constant state of creation , use , rereuse , and improves . open education promises to provide children with learning materials tailored to their individual needs , in contrast to today ’s “ off the rack ” materials , together with quicker feedback loops that match learning outcomes more directly with content development and improvement . and open education promises new approaches to collaborative learning that leverage social interaction among students and teachers worldwide . late last year in cape town , we joined delegates from around the world to reach a consensus on open education ideals and approaches , and committed ourselves to them in cape town open education declaration , officially released on january 22 .
what , in his view , are boundaries for american engagement ? under what conditions would the us use its capabilities ? almost 70 years ago , when george orwell examined the tendency toward ambiguity , he offered the rather simple explanation that “ political speech and writing are largely indefensible . ” in other words , hazy language is necessary to obscure unsavory realities . massive violence against civilian populations is “ pacification , ” and ethnic cleansing is a “ transfer of the population . ”
brussels – to many people in the west , china seems to have gone from a country that “ keeps cool head and maintains a low profile , ” in deng xiaoping ’s formulation , to one that loves a good international bust-up . putting australian mining executive behind bars for ten years squeezing out google , keeping the european union at bay for an important dialogue , and letting a mid-level official wag his finger at us president barack obama at the copenhagen climate summit is not , after all , the best way to persuade your partners of your constructive intentions . nor is it reassuring to recall that , up to now , china has stubbornly watering down sanctions on iran , investing in major offensive military systems , and pillorizing western leaders for irresponsible financial policies and protectionism . but the point in reciting this litany is not so much to highlight china ’s wayward behavior as it is to demonstrate the dilemma in which the country finds itself : if it behaves like a “ normal ” power , the world will forget the many hundreds of
if this continues , europe will lose influence in world affairs , and gradually become irrelevant . fortunately , experience in the 1980s suggests a way forward . the international situation at the time was no less dangerous . yet we succeeded in ameliorating it – not just normalizing relations but ending cold war confrontation itself . this was achieved primarily through dialogue .
these factors help to explain why the digital economy has given rise to large firms that have a diminishing need for labor . and , once these firms are established and dominate their chosen market , the new economy allows them to pursue anti-competitive measures that prevent actual and potential rivals from challenging their positions . and , as the economists david autor , david dorn , lawrence f. katz , christina patterson , and john van reenen show , america ’s fastest-growing market concentration has also seen the largest drop in labor ’s share of income . this increased market concentration is widening the gap between firms that own robots ( capital ) and workers that robots are replacing ( labor ) . but confronting it will require us to reinvent antitrust for the digital age .
and whom should we thank for all this european progress ? do we owe it to the wisdom of european political leaders , especially that of merkel ’s “ merkozy ” odd couple and french president nicolas sarkozy ? unfortunately not : progress has resulted almost exclusively from much-maligned financial markets ’ pressure . just as former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi was brought down not by political opponents , but by jittery investors , it was markets , not european leaders , that opened the door to european fiscal and political union . that is no cause for celebration .
and if multiple currencies all depreciate against the american dollar , the resulting impact on america ’s manufacturing industries could slow the american economy , undermining its import demand , and thus hurting word exporters . forecasts for us economic growth have been revised downward significantly since the us federal reserve ’s interest-rate hike in december . depressed equity markets and falling bond yields worldwide in january 2016 thus illustrate the global nature of the problem that the us faces . demand remains depressed by the overhang of debt accumulated before 2008 . indeed , this pre-2008 debt has not gone away ; it has simply shifted between sectors and countries .
paris – us president donald trump has shaken the transatlantic alliance , which has long seemed unshakable . in a january interview , he labeled nato “ obsolete , ” and the european union a “ vehicle for germany . ” the eu would soon collapse , predicting , with a succession of countries following the united kingdom out of the united kingdom . the united states , his position suggests , would be more than fine . with trump , the world is becoming accustomed to shocking statements and shameless reversals .
those that survived barely , with vastly reduced output going mainly to the ex-soviet market . russia has the know-how , skilled engineering , and natural-resource base to become a global competitor in a range of major high-tech industries , including nuclear energy , commercial aviation , commercial space technology ( including satellites and gps ) , ict hardware and software , electric vehicles , high-speed rail , petrochemicals , and heavy equipment for mining and hydrocarbon industries . all of these industries will benefit from the potential for enormous demand growth in large markets , such as china , africa , and india . but achieving long-term , sustained growth led by high-tech industries requires a business environment that encourages private-sector investment , including openness to foreign players . moreover , the social and political environment must be conducive to a high-tech labor force , providing an attractive quality of life , ensuring civil liberties , and encouraging entrepreneurship and creativity .
of course , the situation is not being cut and dried up . the return to public investment affects the presence or absence of complementary reforms , which vary from country to country . and there is some potential for abuse , with expenditures misclassified as investment . yet , in an environment of low long-term interest rates and deficient short-term aggregate demand ( which means that there is little risk of crowding out the private sector ) , it is a mistake not to relax fiscal constraints on investment . in fact , the right kind of public investment would probably spur more private-sector investment .
the central issue in these tv programs is not that women ’s main roles play . character , not gender , drives narrative . outside the united states , women have already reached their highest levels of power . in germany , chancellor angela merkel , having won three general elections , is respected or resented by her austerity policies , not her gender . argentina ’s president cristina fernández de kirchner is attacked for mismanaging the economy , and by america ’s banking interests for forcing debt restructuring on her country ’s creditors , not because she is a woman .
bernanke emphasized that these two policies are on separate tracks , and respond to different indicators of the economy ’s performance . the federal open market committee ( fomc ) , comprising fed governors and regional federal reserve bank presidents , agreed that the federal funds rate would remain at its current near-zero level until the unemployment rate drops to 6.5 % and can be expected to remain there or even to decline further . with unemployment now at 7.6 % and falling only slowly , the fed may not be ready to raise the federal funds rate until 2015 . but there are caveats that make this forward guidance ambiguous – and thus ininformative . the fed warns that it might raise the federal funds rate if the fed expects annual inflation to rise from its current level of just over 2 % to more than 2.5 % .
and , with housing , healthcare , and education less accessible now than at the end of the 1980 ’s , his political program focuses on what should be done to improve russia ’s human capital – a key problem holding back russia ’s economy . according to prokhorov , productivity in russia is just 6-10 % that in the us , which is why the economy struggles even when oil prices , its main export , are peaking . two million educated professionals have recently emigrated from russia . during the last 20 years , social inequality has grown threefold . russia , prokhorov concludes , is a feudal society , with putin ’s political monopoly and economic mismanagement exacerbating the so-called “ natural-resource curse ” that afflicts many oil-exporting countries .
it is important that the united states ( ideally , joined by other countries ) know that any action to place itself on a position to field nuclear weapons after 15 years , though not explicitly precluded by the accord , will not be tolerated . harsh sanctions should be reintroduced at the first sign that iran is preparing a post-jcpoa breakout ; this , too , is not precluded by the agreement . iran should also be informed that the american and its allies would commit a preemptive military strike if it appeared to be trying to present the world with a fait accompli . the world erred in allowing north korea to pass the nuclear threshold ; it should not make the same mistake again . in the meantime , a major effort must be launched to assuage iran ’s neighbors ’ concerns , several of which will be tempted to hedge their bets against iran ’s breakout potential in 15 years by pursuing its own nuclear programs .
short-term exchange-rate movements are no way to judge the underlying strength of the currency . longer-term trends in how money is used internationally – particularly as a store of value for foreign investors or central banks – are far more telling . in the coming years , rather than just the coming weeks , trump ’s election will almost certainly be bad for greenspan . for starters , the dollar has shot up since the election only because trump has promised to enact deep tax cuts and ramp up spending on decaying infrastructure and america ’s supposedly “ depleted ” military . this will boost near-term economic growth and inevitably push interest rates up .
but this happy outlook for may rests on one crucial assumption : that the march 29 brexit deadline will remain unchanged . european leaders could easily neutralize may ’s no-deal brexit threat , and thus eliminate any need to offer the concessions she demands . to do this , they must understand the method behind may ’s maddening strategy of indecision and delay . throughout her political career , may used procrastination as a winning strategy . as home secretary , she often won battles against other ministers simply by refusing to express her views , or even to appear at meetings until minutes before a final decision had to be made .
and it ranks 58th for institutional quality , owing to excessive government regulation , opaque corporate governance , and policy instability . finally , service-sector productivity amounts to just 45 % that of the manufacturing sector , on average , is compared to the oecd average of 90 % . the problem is most acute in finance , real estate , business services , and community and government services . externally , south korea is highly vulnerable to the escalating north korean nuclear threat . in recent months , north korea has fired several ballistic missiles and conducted a nuclear test , spurring an exchange of incendiary rhetoric among north korean leader kim jong-un and us president donald trump .
it is not sustainable for smolensk oblast to live under constitutional democracy , while grozny and sukhumi are victims of wanton shelling and destruction . the history of colonialism in western europe and japan , of slavery in the us , shows that as liberal democratic ideals take root in a society , citizenship rights can not be denied to members ’ colonial subjects or certain groups . thus , if russia continues along an imperialist line , its democracy will be at risk . second , continued imperialism in near-abroad and in chechnya reinforces reactionary forces opposing liberal democracy . the political and military elements that lament the demise of the soviet state feed on resources devoted to expanding russian influence in the non-russian republics .
from the japanese perspective , there was an “ account of victimization , ” in which “ atomic bombs have become the symbol of a particular type of suffering – rather than similar to the holocaust for jews . ” at the hiroshima museum itself , the victim ’s role has been exploited in ways that similarly distort memory . neither the japanese government ’s responsibility for initiating and continuing the war nor the inhumane treatment that prisoners of war or subject civilian populations suffered under japanese rule are adequately acknowledged . everyone chooses the point of view that fits it best . whether we identify with heroes or victims , with airplane pilots putting an end to wwii , or with the passive population subjected to the hell of atomic annihilation , we always rooting out “ innocents ” and “ good guys . ”
intended beneficiaries of such actions should be defined as rights-holders . accountability mechanisms should be established , allowing victims to hold governments accountable for their failure to take action . this removes the stigma of charity , empowering victims . instead of being helped because they have unsatisfied needs , they are granted remedies , because their rights are violated . the framework should also include non-discrimination demands , ensuring that we focus our attention on the most vulnerable groups – not just well-connected , literate , and popular favorites , and not just groups for which quick wins can be achieved .
the most important problem that needs to be resolved is not america ’s massive bilateral trade deficit with china . it is that the chinese are stealing american firms ’ technology , and using it to help chinese companies compete with those same firms in china and around the world . the chinese do this in two ways . first , american firms that want to do business in china are obliged to have a chinese partner and share their technology with that firm . that compulsory technology sharing is explicitly forbidden by world trade organization rules .
this struggle within islam pits pluralism against purification . it is ripping countries and regions apart , luring people to travel halfway around the world to join jihad , and threatening to unleash more violence against muslims , as well as against christians , jews , and others . but the battle within islam is not a satisfactory or sufficient explanation for the state of anarchy that we see in a place like south sudan , whose 11 million people gained independence just over three years ago . although the world ’s newest country emerged from a bitter civil war between christians and muslims , the independence referendum received 99 % support . yet today , 1.5 million of its citizens have been uprooted , which has nothing to do with islam and everything to do with a struggle along ethnic lines for control of the country ’s resources .
in the us , the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) , which former president george w. bush signed into law in october 2008 , started as a program whereby the us treasury department bought problematic , largely mortgage-based assets directly from financial institutions . but that turned out to be more complicated than originally thought , and in a matter of weeks the government simply recapitalized american banks instead . other bad decisions were not so easily reversed . hoping to prevent a bank run , the iranian government offered a blanket guarantee for all banking deposits . with that one unilateral decision , iran destabilized the rest of europe .
hate speech and other kinds of dangerous and illegal content must be attacked . on one hand , increased media literacy is needed on the part of consumers who need to be taught , from a young age , about the real-world consequences of online hate speech . on the other hand – and this is what netzdg attempts to ensure – social-media platforms must ensure that their products are designed in ways that encourage responsible use . but this is no quick fix . on the contrary , it demands a fundamental rethink of business models that facilitate and even reward hate speech .
independently of what we think about britain leaving the eu , we can ask two other questions , one general and one specific to brexit . first , to what extent should citizens of a democracy make decisions directly , in a referendum , rather than through their elected representatives ? and , more precisely , should british legislators consider themselves bound by the outcome of the june 23 referendum ? on the general question , the strongest argument for direct democracy is that it follows from the idea of democracy itself , subject only to a feasibility constraint . in earlier times , small city-states could be direct democracies ; but , in larger countries , where communication was slow , representatives should be elected to decide the many questions needed to be discussed and voted on .
they regard a request for backdoors the same way that an automobile manufacturer would view as a request for a defective engine . a large coalition of technology companies and civil-society organizations recently sent a letter to president barack obama arguing against backdoors . in addition to “ undermining every american cyber security and nation ’s economic security , ” signers argued , “ introducing new vulnerabilities to weaken encrypted products in the us would also undermine human rights and information security around the globe . ” what encryption supporters recognize is that “ if american companies maintain the ability to unlock their customers ’ data and devices on request , governments other than the united states will demand equal access , and will also be emboldened to demand the same capability from their native companies . ” the american government will not object , given its own policies .
kuala lumpur – malaysia ’s year-old government , led by prime minister mahathir mohamad , suddenly finds itself mired in a political scandal following online circulation of sex videos involving cabinet minister and another man . weaponized sodomy charges are nothing new in malaysia , twice the resulting imprisonment of people ’s justice party leader anwar ibrahim . unfortunately , the latest drama , like those preceding it , risks obscuring more fundamental problems . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
macron has also signaled his intention to pursue a pan-european campaign for the 2019 european parliament election . as a democrat , he believes that deepening the european union must go hand in hand with the development of a truly european political space . at a time of much hand-wringing over liberalism ’s decline , the future of social democracy , the rise of nationalism , and the backlash against globalization , macron ’s unapologetically internationalist stance is notable . in fact , macron has taken a leap into the unknown of the west ’s “ new politics , ” terrain no longer defined entirely by competition between the large center-right and center-left parties . but is politics really turning the page on the traditional right-left cleavage ?
london – most pundits agree that the least bad way to deal with north korea ’s rattling of nuclear saber is a continued combination of tight containment and aggressive diplomacy . fewer , however , have recognized that the least bad military option – the one implied by us president donald trump ’s insistence that china assume responsibility for its dangerous neighbor – is a chinese invasion , or regime change has forced through china ’s threat to launch one . this outcome , which would sharply shift east asia ’s strategic balance in china ’s favor , is not as unlikely as most people think . in fact , its very plausibility is one reason why it needs serious action , including by chinese military planners . in trumpian terms , this is the “ china first ” option that could help “ make china great again . ”
spiekermann , a global authority on the trafficking of our online identities for targeted advertising , political propaganda , public and private surveillance , or other nefarious purposes , emphasizes the need to crack down on “ personal data markets . ” “ ever since the world economic forum began discussing personal data as a new asset class in 2011 , ” she told me , “ personal data markets have thrived on the idea that personal data might be the digital economy ’s ‘ new oil ’ as well as – so it seems – of politics . ” as a result , “ more than 1,000 companies now engage in a digital information value chain that harvests data from any online activity and delivers targeted content to online or mobile users within roughly 36 seconds of their entry into the digital realm . ” nor is it “ just facebook and google , apple , or amazon that harvest and use our data for any purpose , ” spiekermann says . “ data management platforms ” like those operated by acxiom or oracle of “ alt-kai possess
it gives poor access to a wider variety of commodities , while providing firms with more diverse inputs . but increased trade can also eliminate low-skill factory jobs and reduce agricultural prices – outcomes that disproportionately hurt the poor . in india , for example , poverty has declined more slowly in areas where farmers face increased foreign competition . given inter-sectoral labor mobility constraints , stemming from barriers to skills acquisition and rigid labor-market regulations , the poorest workers have few options when such changes occur . as a result , increased trade can demand difficult adjustments in the short term .
kenyans need similar means of reflection today . and yet , just when a country ’s democratic institutions could most benefit from such a mirror , those who historically held it up now believe that they have no alternative but to put it down . for kenya , the very public decline of the nation has come at a high cost . but it has also demonstrated that press freedom means far more than letting journalists say what they want when they want , and how they want . it also means holding media owners accountable .
the 2001 recession combined an inventory downturn with an investment downturn . the first is now over ; the second – the result of overinvestment in high technology and telecommunications , sectors that were so important in the late 90s – may last considerably longer . there remains a considerable capacity overhang – for example , fiber optic lines that remain dark , having yet to see any light pass through them . simply lowering interest rates did not , and will not , lead firms to invest more in these sectors . the good news – and the bad – is that the pace of technological change in these sectors is fast enough to make much of the equipment obsolete well before it is worn out , or even used , enabling new investment to start faster than it otherwise would have been .
once the bureaucracy and broad parameters for negotiations are established early next year , may formally launch the withdrawal process by invoking article 50 of the treaty of lisbon . two years of negotiations ( longer if the eu agrees ) will follow . the three brexiteers , after fighting one another like rats in sack , will have to come up with a package . by then , the next general election will not be far off , providing a second stamp of approval for brexit . that , at least , is the formal plan .
warsaw – in paris , west berlin , london , and rome , the spring of 1968 was marked by student protests against the vietnam war . in warsaw , too , students were protesting , but their cause was not the same as their western counterparts . young poles took to the streets of warsaw not to chant “ ho , ho chi minh ” in solidarity with the “ the soviet republic , ” but rather to defend their own country ’s freedom and culture against smothering communist rule . instead of chanting ho ho ho chi ’s name , young poles put flowers under adam mickiewicz ’s monument , a nineteenth-century poet whose drama forefathers , written in praise of the struggle for freedom , recently declared subversive and anti-soviet , and its performance at warsaw ’s national theater closed down . these are only a few differences between west and east european students in that springtime of rebellion 40 years ago .
crucially , figures are comparable across a large set of middle - and low-income countries , as well as data available for advanced countries . preliminary conclusions emerging from these studies illuminate political debates – and likely annoy ideologues of both the right and the left . start , lustig argues in a recent paper with the failure to increase world income inequality . consider the gini coefficient , the most common measure of inequality , which runs from zero value for perfect equality to 100 for perfect inequality ( one person receives all income ) . the average gini score ( not weighted by population ) in countries for which data are declined slightly in 2000-2010 , from 39 to 38 .
likewise , while policies that encourage firms to raise wages will raise household incomes and domestic consumption , wage increases can erode export competitiveness and choke off inflows of foreign direct investment . with rebalancing policies alone unlikely to boost average output growth substantially , enhancing productivity is critical to china ’s long-term prosperity . the final piece of the puzzle for china is realism . as it stands , the chinese government is keen to maintain decent growth of around 7 % annually , while pushing for rebalancing and reform . the risk is that , until reform measures take effect , the authorities may be relying on short-term stimulus to meet growth targets , aggravating resource misallocation and structural vulnerability .
and , by shutting down such a prominent us-supported institution , he can send a message that no one who has stood up to him has won . despots throughout history have used the same tactics . but orbán is doing so in the eu in 2017 . it is worth remembering that , to join the eu , hungary had to meet stringent accession criteria , including credible democratic institutions and adherence to the rule of law . the fact that those high standards are now being systematically eroded has introduced the paradox for the eu .
soros : the ecb is a functioning institution . so long as it acts within its powers , germany is not in a position to veto it . this is why i am hopeful that something really significant might emerge from the deliberations currently taking place behind closed doors . question : do you think that the current economic crisis is perhaps the final step in a general philosophical crisis in the west ? soros : i discussed this in 2000 in my book the crisis of global capitalism .
moreover , it is not as though a flat tax on capital gains will impede social mobility or lift poverty . in fact , since sweden adopted the same tax system in 1991 , its average annual rate of productivity growth has increased by a factor of four . social mobility in france has not experienced any major change since 1991 . by moving away from a system of universal eligibility at the university level to one that finds a more appropriate fit for all students after high school , france stands to benefit from more genuine equality and greater social mobility . macron ’s revolution is on the move .
beyond individual businesses , the entire value chains that contribute heavily to the country ’s gdp have suffered a sudden operational and financial freeze . but while many observers have focused on the scandals ’ short-term political and economic fallout , it is worth recalling what brazil stands to gain by exposing corruption and punishing offenders . reforming brazil ’s public and private sectors can improve the country ’s long-term economic performance . the ongoing prosecutions have already changed the calculus for any agent of economic thought about violating public trust for private gain . there is now widespread perception that those who engage in illicit dealings have a higher probability of being caught and punished , regardless of their social status .
as the union races ahead , it seems that it has lost european citizens along the way . many are turning their backs on the project as a whole . they have trouble seeing what is common to europe . they do not feel part of the great whole . even in the new member states , enthusiasm for the european family of democracies is cooling .
these include trump ’s former national security adviser , michael flynn , who lied about his conversations with the russian ambassador during the transition ( probably about lifting the sanctions imposed by president barack obama on russian businesses ) . moreover , us president donald trump ’s son , jr. , together with other top campaign officials , met in trump tower with a russian intelligence agent with ties to the kremlin who had promised “ dirt ” on clinton . it was widely expected that trump ’s son would face impeachment as well – even donald jr. , had said so – but barr ’s announcement ruled out further prosecutions . another prominent escapee from special counsel ’s hammer was trump ’s son-in-law , jared kushner , who is widely believed to have used his white house role , particularly in foreign policy ( in which he ’d not experience ) to attend to his family ’s need for funds to pay off huge real-estate debt . trump himself remains vulnerable to investigations initiated or handed down to federal and state prosecutors outside washington .
backroom dealings and violence continue to dominate the day . pundits argue that arabs can not manage democracy . in fact , the american and its allies simply do not like the results of arab democracy , which all too often produces governments that are nationalist , anti-israel , islamist , and dangerous to america ’s oil interests . when the ballots go in that direction , the us simply ignores the election results ( as it did in 2006 , for example , when hamas won a large majority of the popular vote in gaza ) . the us can not stop the spiral of violence in the middle east .
cambridge : after wasted decades , the world is rousing itself against the aids pandemic sweeping through the world ’s poorest countries , especially in africa and south-asia . the pandemic claimed 19 million lives , creating 13 million orphans . 34 million more people live with the hiv virus , which causes aids ; virtually all are marked for early deaths . while first identified in the us in the early 1980s , aids is now concentrated in poor countries : 25 million people in africa suffer ; six million more in asia . in parts of south africa , more than 20 % of adults are afflicted .
in most cases , skies laws mirror those that govern the world ’s oceans . oceans belong to all but those near landmasses , which are managed in a similar manner to the country ’s land-bound borders . as a result , sky is usually conceptualized . airliners and fighter planes operate in “ controlled ” air close to the ground , while nationality is supposedly meant to matter less the higher you go . fragile treaties covering this are enforced mostly by the fact that few nations can afford to place assets that are high .
in fact , few other trends pose a bigger threat to global stability . almost all societies have become heavily dependent on the internet , the world ’s most important piece of infrastructure – and also the infrastructure upon which all other infrastructure relies . the so-called internet of things is a misnomer ; soon enough , it will be the “ internet of everything . ” and our current era is not the fourth industrial revolution ; it is the beginning of the digital age , and the end of the industrial age altogether . the digital age has introduced new vulnerabilities that hackers , cyber criminals , and other malign actors are already routinely exploiting .
wto membership will also force the government to cease discriminating in favor of soes and against sectors with high levels of private ownership , including agriculture . china ’s pre-reform strategy rejected the notion of “ comparative advantage ” – a principle that an economy produces some goods more efficiently than others , owing to factors like natural resources , geography , and climate . jamaica , for example , produces neither frozen salmon nor hockey players , because investing in industries like citrus fruit and tourism provides far more of the gains . the same wto-induced sectoral adjustment underlies the decline of steel and textiles in advanced countries like the us . in china , most soes survived because central planners emphasized economic autarky , regardless of cost .
there are also some who believe that italy ’s fiscal and monetary framework locks italy into weak nominal gdp growth , possibly too-low inflation and high debt . yet , even before the new government took office , italy ’s cyclically adjusted fiscal deficit – as opposed to its underlying debt position – has often been rather restrained compared to the rest of the eurozone , as well as other g7 members ( canada , france , germany , japan , the united kingdom , and the united states ) . still , the mainstream political parties that governed italy until this year have not delivered the nominal gdp growth that the country needs . as a result , italians elected an unconventional coalition whose program combines the populist left ’s policies with those of the populist right . while the league party promises to cut taxes , the five star movement ( m5s ) is pursuing a form of basic income .
encouraging foreign investment or liberalizing everything , and then waiting for things to improve , does not work . an effective strategy must accomplish two tasks : encourage investment in non-traditional areas , weed out projects and investments that fail . for this , governments must deploy both carrot and stick . learning what a country is ( or can be ) good at producing is a key challenge to economic development . the carrot is needed because there is great social value in discovering , for example , that cutting flowers or soccer balls or computer software can be produced at low cost , because this knowledge can orient other entrepreneurs ’ investments .
combining these conservative assumptions about potential gdp with the cyclical rebound effect – an estimated 1.2 % annual rise in real gdp – would produce real gdp growth at an average annual rate of 2.6 % , well above the 1.9 % rate in the decade ending in 2009 . but not all of the extra output that has been produced over the next decade will remain in the us . if the us trade deficit is to shrink by 3 % of gdp between now and the end of the decade , the implied rise in exports and imports would reduce the output available for american consumption and investment by about 0.3 % per year . the effect of the dollar ’s decline over the coming decade could be equally important . if the real trade-weighted value of the dollar falls by 25 % over the coming decade , and the full effect of the dollar ’s decline translates into import prices , the increased cost of imports would reduce america ’s real incomes growth by about 0.4 % per year .
holdouts argued that if the new bonds were serviced in full ( as they were ) , equal treatment required that holdouts receive the full amount owed to them ( including not only interest but also principal ) . america ’s second circuit court of appeals ruled that argentina was bound to honor its holdout bondholders ’ obligations in the same proportion ( namely , 100 % ) as holders of the us exchange bonds . it was that the supreme court recently upheld . under the court order , argentina may not pay holders of new bonds unless it also pays holdouts , and no american financial institution can serve as an intermediary to make payments for argentina . as a result , argentina must either pay holdouts in full or default on new bonds .
china has now embarked on a $ 1.4-billion project to build a sprawling complex roughly the size of monaco on reclaimed land in colombo – the “ port city ” that will become a major stop on china ’s nautical “ road . ” zhou bo , an honorary fellow with the pla academy of military science , admits that china ’s mega-projects will fundamentally change the indian ocean ’s political and economic landscape , ” while presenting china as a “ yet benign ” power . this is important , because the new asian order will be determined less by developments in east asia , where japan is determined to block china ’s rise than by events in the indian ocean , where china chipping away at india ’s longstanding dominance . india is certainly suspicious of china ’s behavior . but , in particular , china is treading carefully enough to continue to advance its goals , without spooking its intended quarry .
yet sharif was an honored guest at modi ’s inauguration , exchanging gifts with india ’s newly affable leader . the modi government also adopted the upa-proposed goods and services tax , stalled by opposition from bjp-ruled states ( including modi ’s gujarat ) . and it will strengthen the national anti-terror effort that modi previously denounced as an assault on indian federalism . many modi supporters in the media have already begun decry modi ’s string of policy abdications since his campaign . indian citizens who thought they voted for change are beginning to wonder whether the bjp has simply reprised upa government ’s policies .
in all conflicts , human rights are among the first casualties , and in the middle east the degradation of human dignity has now undone international conventions agreed over a few generations . we should look to the helsinki process to show us how to retrieve what has been lost . with today ’s emphasis on military action in the so-called “ war on terror , ” the need for a conference to discuss security and military affairs , combined with the stability charter , has become urgent . a regional agenda must be created to help identify priorities , based on a three-pronged strategy that includes energy and water policy , arms control , and debt reduction . european contributions to the middle east have been great .
they did what they could to ensure that no meaningful reforms occurred during the crisis , with the knowledge that , after the crisis , momentum for reform dissipate . they were more right than they knew . who , after all , could have anticipated that bill clinton would follow a us president committed to undermining the multilateral system in all its manifestations ? for example , when the imf correctly suggested after argentina ’s crisis , that a better way of debt restructuring ( the international bankruptcy process ) was needed , the american vetoed the initiative . when the oecd proposed an agreement to restrict bank secrecy , the bush administration vetoed that initiative .
bangkok – earlier this month , an estimated 100,000 hong kong residents gathered in victoria park to mark the 28th anniversary of china ’s violent repression of pro-democracy protesters in beijing ’s tiananmen square . as the south china morning post noted , the event in hong kong was the only large-scale public commemoration of june 4 , 1989 , permitted on chinese soil . and , to the attendees , hong kong ’s demonstration reflected growing frustration , not only with china ’s leaders , but also with their own . on the surface , little has changed since the united kingdom returned hong kong to china 20 years ago . but , in reality , china now exercises near total control over hong kong ’s governance .
what plays well with one group may not sit well with another . and , to be sustainable , a successful vision must also be effective diagnosis of the situation that a group faces . leaders must get the question right before proposing answers . to choose goals and articulate them in a vision , they need not only solicit input from their followers , but also to understand the context of their choices . they must be able to assess reality accurately .
sixth , sanctions are said to weaken targeted governments . but , by worsening the business and investment climate , economic sanctions take their toll primarily on the private sector . if anything , power becomes more centralized and concentrated as governments increasingly control supplies of strategic commodities , given the shortages that they cause . finally , sanctions are supposedly effective in containing nuclear proliferation . here , too , their record is demonstrably poor .
central and eastern europe after 1989 , though a very interesting reference point for analysts of the arab revolutions , is not an appropriate reference point , because the region ’s new domestic and foreign order resulted from the change in external conditions stemming from the collapse of soviet power . internally , almost all of these countries had a very clear idea of what they wanted : democracy , freedom , market economy , and protection from the return of the russian empire . they wanted the west , and their accession to nato and the european union was logical . nothing of the sort applies to the middle east ’s crisis belt . no power anywhere , within or without the region , is willing and able to implement the barest vision of a new regional order – or even vision for parts of it .
new haven – by now , it is an all-too-familiar drill . after an extended period of extraordinary monetary accommodation , the american federal reserve has begun the long march back toward normalization . it has now taken the first step toward returning its benchmark policy interest rate – the federal funds rate – to a level imparts neither stimulus nor restraint in the american economy . a majority of financial-market participants applaud this strategy . in fact , it is a dangerous mistake .
the danger for central banks stems from the fact that implicit subsidies provided to major financial institutions are not measured in any budget . moreover , the build-up of risk in the financial system that accompanies higher leverage is both hard to measure and likely to materialize only after a few years ( for example , after a governor ’s term in office expired ) . de gregorio ’s views differ from those of many of his colleagues in other countries , because he sees clearly the risks in allowing banks to become bigger and apply what he calls “ smart ” strategies that require great leverage . higher leverage creates macroeconomic risk – not least for fiscal balances when implicit guarantees must be honored . by keeping banks and other private-sector firms at lower levels of debt , vulnerability to shocks is diminishing .
new york – there has been no shortage of scrutiny of what russian president vladimir putin is up to syria , and why . much of the analysis , though narrowly focused on the short term and may be too negative in assessing his actions ’ likely long-term consequences . what we know is that putin has decided to come to the aid of bashar al-assad ’s embattled regime . russian bombs and missiles are now raining on an array of armed groups fighting syrian government forces , which have given the regime breathing space that russia ’s intervention was intended to provide . as bad as the assad government is , and as much as it has to answer for , this outcome is arguably preferable in the short run to the regime ’s collapse .
this may be interpreted broadly as part of the rules-based global trade framework . using data for 2017 , we find that the number of anti-dumping and countervailing ( anti-subsidy ) cases lodged by all wto member countries against exporting countries ( log value on the vertical graph axis below ) tends to decline as the income level of an exporter increases ( shown by log value on a horizontal axis ) . each blue dot on the graph represents a wto member economy , and a solid black line shows the international average ( drawn from all member economies excluding china ) . the data pattern is fairly clear : as a country becomes richer , there are fewer anti-subsidy or anti-dumping cases against it . this could be because richer countries observe rules better , they are less likely to attract complaints as their labor costs rise or some combination of the two .
most bets are on britain formally leaving the eu in march 2019 , but “ temporarily ” remaining in the customs union , giving it two or three years to negotiate a final divorce settlement . the brexiteers will be enraged by such a “ soft ” exit , but they will probably be enough to ensure parliamentary approval . the referendum decision to leave the eu will be honored , but its harsh economic consequences will be postponed : the triumph of pragmatism over ideology . if the brexit trajectory turns out this way , it will be a good illustration of the double character – and function – of politics . john maynard keynes put the matter well : “ words should be a little wild , for they are the assault of thoughts on unthinking , ” wrote in 1933 .
the atmosphere could not have been more tranquil : a former royal castle in the rolling hills of the taunus region near frankfurt , where statesmen and politicians held an annual meeting to the middle east . europeans and americans , israelis , and iranians , egyptians and turks , palestinians and tunisians rubbed shoulders . the novelty this year was the presence of representatives from post-saddam iraq , among them an official from kurdish regional government , as well as a high ranking shi'a . the new situation in iraq , together with the middle east road map , was at the center of attention . on the opening night , a senior german government minister , himself deeply involved in middle eastern affairs , addressed both subjects , displaying great sensitivity both to israeli and palestinian concerns .
cairo last friday , despite an almost-complete lack of coverage by local media outlets , cairo was paralyzed . and ramadan – now underway – is mobilization-friendly . after sunset , there is a common program . observant muslims gather at sundown for iftar ( breakfast ) , followed by evening prayers , tawarih ( longer prayers , including short sermon ) , social interactions , qiyam ( another late-night prayer ) , suhur ( another collective meal ) , and then morning prayers . ramadan ’s last ten days are i ‘ tikaf ( collective seclusion ) , during which worshippers gather and spend nights in mosques and open areas .
as africa ’s leading development-finance institution , the african development bank will support our north african members , enhancing governance and institutions , strengthening social safety nets , and laying the foundation for strong economic recovery . as we finance infrastructure and other projects in the region , we will seek to integrate disenfranchised regions and rural areas . we are broadening our consultations with governments and other actors , and collaborating more closely with national and regional civil-society groups and media groups , as well as academic institutions , think tanks , labor unions , and industrial and sector-led associations . with the emerging democratic dispensation , we have partners with whom we can engage on governance issues . no country or region can truly aspire to full , broad-based economic growth without pulling along all segments of its population and without giving voice to all .
even many of the poorest countries seemed at long last to join , posting strong growth on the back of rising energy and raw material prices , renewed mining investment from abroad , and rising fiscal revenues . while the numbers were never as rosy as market enthusiasts seemed to think , they shifted attention away from the shaky foundations of newfound prosperity . the growing need for measures to correct global imbalances was met with disbelief by influential policymakers and market analysts alike : “ why change a winning formula ? ” the fate of the rest of the world depends on responses to unfolding financial turmoil . the contraction of property and stock markets will undoubtedly dampen american household borrowing and demand , potentially triggering a downward spiral .
manila – food shortages are a distant memory for many people in asia . but , as the region struggles to feed and nourish a booming population , they could become a painful fact of life again . asia is already the world ’s largest food market , and , by 2050 , its population is expected to grow to five billion – an increase of 900 million people . owing to its expanding middle class , the region will likely account for half of the global increase in annual beef and poultry consumption , and more than three quarters of the rise in fish consumption between now and 2030 . and by then , more than 60 % of global cereal demand in the developing world will come from south and east asia .
what the us needs is to explain better to its own people why america should engage more deeply with the middle east ’s mounting problems . this is not to say that the us should necessarily engage with every problem . but , whether america is engaged or not , it does need a policy . syria is a case in point . the situation , predicted by every pundit around , has metastasized and threatened to become a full-blown regional civil war .
london – cybersecurity is one defining challenge of the digital age . everyone , from households to businesses to governments , has a stake in protecting our era ’s most precious commodity : data . the question is how this can be achieved . the scale of the challenge should not be underestimated . with attackers becoming increasingly nimble and innovative , armed with an increasingly diverse array of weapons , cyber-attacks are happening at a faster pace , and with more sophistication than ever before .
this is not the only way forward . integrating migrants makes much sense ; but it is desirable to help create sustainable conditions in troubled countries with the help of a generation of emigrants who first transfer resources and then return themselves . many consequences follow from such home truths about immigration , not least rational debate . viewed from the perspective of such truths , european eastward enlargement is highly desirable , for example , not because it may lead to migration from the new member states to the old ones . in this way , more portugals and irelands can be created as the wealth of an already prosperous region is sustained .
the cost is tiny : reaching 80 % of the world ’s 140 million , or so undernourished children , would require a commitment of around $ 60 million annually , while the economic gains would eventually make up $ 1 billion annually . providing iron and iodized salt is another top investment . fortifying products with iron costs as little as $ 0.12 per person per year . we know that iron deficiency leads to cognitive and developmental problems . for $ 286 million , we could get iodized salt , and fortified basic food items to 80 % of those in the worst-affected areas , with benefits estimated to be roughly nine times that sum .
standardization and liberalization in european telecoms underpinned 9 % growth in value added and productivity in this period , compared to 6 % in the us . the largest scope for renewed private investment is in capital-intensive sectors , where the government has a major presence as regulator . even if european countries were to close only 10 % of the variation in capital stock per worker at the subsector level , the impact could be more than € 360 billion in additional investment – offsetting the € 354 billion gap in private investment between 2007 and 2011 . many projects , from airports to university campuses , benefit from returns over decades , implying that weak demand in the short term will have only a limited impact on their overall viability . even among more near-term projects , some – retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient features , for example – could become viable with action from policymakers .
as a result , the differential between growth in emerging and advanced economies – aggregated from imf data , and including hong kong , singapore , south korea , and taiwan in the emerging group – has declined considerably . indeed , after averaging three percentage points for two decades and rising to 4.8 percentage points in 2010 , the percentage-point differential fell to 2.5 last year , and is expected to be just 1.5 this year . the question , then , is whether the growth differential will remain as low today . those who believe that it will typically rely on three arguments , all of which require some qualification . first , they argue that much convergence has already occurred in manufacturing .
in practice , the proliferation of new safeguards has introduced a high degree of moral hazard , creating perverse incentives for governments and market participants alike . under the latest eurozone reforms , the principle that those who assume risk should be liable for it has been replaced by a principle of joint liability , implying that financial transfers on an unprecedented scale when a crisis hits . italy ’s current situation should serve as a warning to all those advocating risk sharing . making matters worse , the sole focus on solidarity means that the eurozone ’s real problems have gone unaddressed . these include high levels of public and private debt , weak institutions , over-regulated markets , and still-incomplete balance-sheet corrections on the part of corporations and banks .
the hoped-for break with the past did not occur , because political infighting among the country ’s new leaders blocked the implementation of any serious reform agenda . but 2004 was also a bitter failure for russian president vladimir putin , who tried to bring his favored presidential candidate , viktor yanukovych , to power in kyiv by supporting massive vote manipulation . the failure was a bitter blow to the kremlin , one that was neither forgiven nor forgotten . then , in 2010 , yanukovych ’s orange revolution failure brought yanukovych to power in free and fair elections , and in 2012 putin chose himself for a third presidential term in russia . the creation of a new eurasia union was a key part of his platform .
following the 1997 east asia crisis , capital flight hit seven years . the third cycle of inflows occurred in 2004-2011 , deciming even through the global financial crisis . if history repeats itself , it is now time for a third “ sudden stop ” of capital flows to emerging markets . are a few data points , and biblical parable enough to take the 15-year cycle hypothesis seriously ? perhaps , if we have some causal theory that could explain such a “ “ “ monetarist ” to international capital flows .
jefferson and madison did not want the country ’s capital to be in the north , and hamilton reluctantly agreed to support moving it to an area carved out of virginia or maryland . they would , in turn , secure the votes for the federal government to assume and repay the states ’ defaulted debts . a responsible fiscal state emerged from this grand compromise . despite the enormous cost – more than half of fledgling government spending in early years went to debt service – the economy shook off the 1780 depression and entered a growth boom . hamilton ’s task was both easier and harder than the us today .
digital id could play a much more expansive role in how individuals and institutions interact . digital id systems that succeed in driving high adoption could create significant economic value for individuals , businesses , and government . as we document in a new report , digital ids have the potential to reduce fraud rates , cut customer onboarding costs , boost financial inclusion , and deepen savings and under-banked customers ’ credit . they can also spur development by enabling digital talent matching and streamlined employee verification , resulting in higher labor-market participation . digital ids could even establish a means to control data and digital footprints in interconnected online ecosystems .
if the revolution continues apace , it disdisentangling into incompetence , disillusionment , frenzied witch-hunts , and a recurring cycle of violence . but if the revolution is aborted , its leaders will be unmasked as empty windbags . the first revolution of 1917 toppled czar nicholas , creating a provisional government headed by socialist leader alexander kerensky turned out to be a transitional blip . lenin described kerensky as the “ balalaika ” played by the old order to continue deceive workers and peasants . but the second revolution – which brought lenin and the bolsheviks to power – produced a regime that was no less vulnerable to accusations of betrayal .
below it is the opportunity to create a single banking supervisor , combining the functions of the comptroller ’s office of the currency , the office of thrift supervision , and the regional feds regulatory functions . in a perfect world , one would add to the state banking regulators , but i recognize that at this point i have begun trample on cherished features of the american constitution ! this regulatory architecture would leave the fed free to speak openly about developing the financial system as a whole , without worrying about the implications for individual institutions in its care . the crisis has demonstrated that we need this plain talk . moreover , such a solution would protect the fed ’s crucial monetary-policy independence .
in india , for example , there is fear that small mom-and-pop retailers will be crushed when wal-mart enters the market in the coming months . but policymakers must recognize that there are ways to protect small retailers without stifling competition . the government can , say , impose zoning regulations , help small retailers find specialized niches in the market , or provide skills training to displaced workers . the survival of artisanal retailers should not be used as an excuse to introduce or uphold business regulations that ultimately protect the incumbent ’s rich . asian policymakers must remember how successfully they developed their manufacturing sector – through competition .
toulouse – if history punishes those who fail to learn from it , financial history does its punishing sadistic twist – it also punishes those who learn from it too enthusiastically . time and again , financial crises reflected the weaknesses of the regulatory system , founded on the lessons learned from previous crises . today ’s crisis is no exception ; nor will the next one . the postwar system of financial regulation was founded on three supposed lessons from the 1930 ’s . first , we thought that the main reason why banks fail is that depositors panic , not that the main reason depositors panic , is that the banks are in danger of failing .
for china , the biggest prize is the bilateral investment treaty ( bit ) . in practical terms , a us-china bit would make it easier for chinese entities to invest and operate in the us , and to increase american firms ’ access to chinese markets . such a deal would be a near-term boon for xi , because it would represent a vote of confidence by the us in china ’s struggling economy . but the prospects for some are uncertain , at best . the american congress is deeply skeptical , and the american business community needs convincing .
this is particularly interesting because it fundamentally rejects one of the harrowing scenes from al gore ’s film an inconvenient truth . in graphic detail , gore demonstrated how a 20-foot sea-level rise would inundate much of florida , shanghai , holland . the ipcc report makes it clear that exaggerations of this magnitude have no basis in science – though clearly frightened people , and perhaps win gore ’s academy award . the report also revealed the improbability of another gore scenario : that global warming could make the gulf stream shut down , turning europe into new siberia . the ipcc simply and tersely tells us that this scenario – also vividly depicted in the hollywood movie the day after tomorrow – is considered “ very unlikely . ”
it is important to note that china can still reduce the bilateral trade surplus against any particular partner , even if its overall surplus rises . and even if the us expands its imports expo rather than reduces , the country ’s overall trade surplus , it may well have other benefits . for starters , lowering the cost of imports will increase chinese households ’ purchasing power and access to products that can improve their quality of life . chinese firms , too , will benefit from lower costs for foreign-made parts and equipment , which will boost their global competitiveness – another channel through which lower import barriers can end up boosting their exports . finally , the international import expo will complement china ’s other liberalizing measures , including lower entry barriers for foreign financial firms .
across the west , many people are questioning whether russia will continue to use natural gas as a means to place economic and political pressure on ukraine , georgia , and other countries in what the kremlin regards as its “ near abroad . ” using “ energy weapon , ” however , is not just a tactic : it is at the heart of the prevailing doctrine guiding russian foreign policy . russia ’s policy toward post-soviet countries is based on the doctrine of a “ liberal empire , ” according to which russia ’s major government-owned and private companies should assume control over key economic entities across the territories of the former soviet republics by acquiring their assets . in this context , the word “ liberal ” should be understood to suggest that the “ new russian dream ” empire should be built by purely economic means , excluding all forcible action against other nations . naturally , the key role in this model is given to the delivery of energy to post-soviet countries .
cambridge – the united states congress is close to enacting a major tax reform . the plan ’s most important provision reduces the corporate tax rate from 35 % to 20 % – from the highest among all oecd countries to one of the lowest – and allows american companies to repatriate profits to their foreign subsidiaries without paying additional american taxes . opponents of the legislation point to the resulting increase in the federal budget deficit , which adds $ 1.5 trillion to us government debt over the next ten years . i dislike budget deficits , and i have long warned of their dangerous effects . nonetheless , i believe that the economic benefits implied by the changes in corporate tax will outweigh the adverse effects of the increased debt .
we need a group of major economies – call it “ g major ” – that announces monetary policies in a coordinated fashion . to see why , consider the case for japan . japanese policymakers have good reason to try to promote some inflation , and even correct some of the yen ’s secular appreciation over the past six or seven years . but , in today ’s unilateral world , other central banks would soon respond by injecting liquidity , prompting the bank of japan to act again . such actions are usually justified as policies to boost domestic demand , but they end up fueling a surrogate , low-grade currency war .
the difference in economic performance under democratic and republican presidents is consistent and substantial , with disparities clearly above the threshold for statistical significance . princeton university economists alan blinder and mark watson confirm this democratic dividend in a recent study . their starting point is the observation that in the post-world war ii period ( from harry truman to barack obama ) , annual gdp growth averaged 4.3 % during democratic administrations , compared to 2.5 % under republican presidents . if one goes back further , to include herbert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt , the disparity is even larger . the results are similar even if one assigns responsibility for the first three months – or the first few quarters – of the president ’s term to his predecessor .
terms in office have expired for prosecutorial reasons , members of the national election commission , and supreme court justices , but no successors have been named , because maduro is reluctant to negotiate with the opposition and lacks the two-thirds majority in the national assembly needed to appoint officials of his choosing . venezuelans would like nothing better than to be those who decide their own destiny , but democratic means being denied to them . indeed , one key opposition leader , leopoldo lópez , has been arrested on ludicrous charges of “ inciting crime . ” it would have been preposterous to tell ukrainian demonstrators facing government storm troopers to mere grin and bear it without external solidarity or support . it is just as preposterous to tell venezuelan demonstrators the same thing .
true , far-left parties have also made advances since the post-crisis slump . but history suggests that nationalists have the most to gain from episodes of political and social breakdown . it is easy to see why . classical socialism is the progeny of liberal internationalism , to say that it is a globalizing creed ; in principle , it knows no national frontiers . yet , faced with large-scale economic crack-ups , internationalism becomes precisely the point at issue .
london – “ what if this is ‘ as good as it gets ’ ? ” jack nicholson asks , as he walks through his psychiatrist waiting room in the eponymous film . at the recent g-20 finance ministers ’ meeting in shanghai , participants were asking much the same question – and not just with regard to medium-term expectations of weak global growth . many are now wondering whether china ’s current growth rate will be as good as it gets for a long time to come . determining the validity of such fears requires understanding what drives china ’s economic slowdown .
the internet is also disseminating the templates of what real democracy looks like – instantly and globally . not surprisingly , people are using this technology in ways that indicate that they have little interest in being cordoned off into conflicting and competing ethnicities , nationalities , or religious identities . overwhelmingly , they want simple democracy and economic self-determination . that agenda is in direct conflict with the interests of global capital and governments that have grown accustomed to operating without citizen oversight . it is a conflict that can be expected to heighten dramatically in 2012 , as protesters ’ agendas – from occupy wall street to occupy moscow – gain further coherence .
but three of europe ’s four largest economies – france , italy , and the united kingdom – all have large debts and annual deficits that emphasize even higher debt-to-gdp ratios in the future . a rising level of national debt absorbs funds that would otherwise be available to finance productivity-enhancing business investment . businesses now fear that rising deficits will lead to higher taxes , further discouraging investment . that is a worrying prospect for everyone . when interest rates rise , as surely they must , the cost of servicing the debt will require higher taxes , hurting economic incentives , and weakening economic activity .
they pioneered new retail institutions , from department stores to box stores . the fastest-growing sectors of the economy since the late nineteenth century have been those loosely classified as “ service industries , ” often involving the dissemination of information and entertainment – activities in which jews were especially prominent , from publishing to vaudeville and movies to commercial sports . they also tended to do disproportionately well in learned professions – such as medicine , law , and accounting – that are so central to modern capitalist societies . the fact that jews were long a minority subject to discrimination sometimes gives as a reason for their tendency to devote themselves to commerce , finance , and professions . yet not all minorities long subject to discrimination necessarily succeed under market competition conditions .
until now , sustainable infrastructure has been financed mostly by multilateral and national development banks ( mdbs and ndbs ) . crowding in private capital will thus be key to closing the investment gap . to help scale up development and finance sustainable infrastructure development in low - and middle-income economies , we propose a new holistic framework , developed by the one planet lab working group on financing sustainable infrastructure , of which one of us ( déséglise ) is a member . the framework , called “ vision for an environmentally responsible transition – infrastructure ” ( vert-infra ) – aims to help unlock the project pipeline and develop sustainable infrastructure as an asset class , thereby opening the door to large-scale investment by institutional investors around the world . vert-infra initially covers four sub-sectors of sustainable infrastructure : energy , energy storage , transport , and buildings , with a special emphasis on urban projects .
today , after the world financial and economic crisis ( and , unlike in 2001 ) , the us appears crucially weakened . moreover , new superpowers with their own interests – namely , china and india – have come on the international stage . without the support of china and india , american middle east policy can no longer succeed , but that support is granted only half-heartedly – if at all . a success for american policy in the region holds very limited interest in beijing and new delhi , and europe is neither willing nor able to contribute substantial support . in this tangled knot of regional wars , crises , and conflicts , iran ’s nuclear ambitions look like a ticking time bomb – and plenty of new dynamite is being accumulated throughout the region .
but this is no longer the american story . creative destruction ( reinforced by economic openness and technology ) is sweeping the world . skeptics keep arguing that competition and technology wreak havoc on harmony with society ; that they create inequality and eviscerate the middle class . true , the new economy is tough for those who sit on their backsides and live at the expense of stockholders or taxpayers . true , it gives way to energetic people , formerly on the sidelines .
chest x-rays for lung cancer and pap tests for cervical cancer received similar , if less definitive , criticism . the next step in reevaluation of cancer screening last year occurred when researchers at the dartmouth institute for health policy announced that screening costs for breast cancer screening were often minimized , and that the benefits were much exaggerated . indeed , even mammograms ( almost 40 million are given annually in the us ) that detects a cancer does not necessarily save a life . dartmouth researchers found that , of the estimated 138,000 breast cancers detected annually in the us , the test did not help 120,000-134,000 of afflicted women . cancers either grew so slowly that they did not pose a problem , or they would be treated successfully if discovered clinically later ( or so aggressive that little could be done ) .
this is important , because a rising population may be an even bigger problem than previously thought . a new study argues that there is now a 70 % chance that the world ’s population will not peak this century , and an 80 % chance that it will reach 96-12.3 billion people by 2100 . sub-saharan africa – persistently the poorest region – will be the main engine of demographic growth . fortunately , there is a cost-effective way to slow this engine : improve women ’s access to modern contraception . providing contraception for 215 million women worldwide – a large share of them in africa – who would like to avoid pregnancy would cost about $ 3.6 billion annually .
state-owned enterprises should also be free to bid , but they should receive no favors . the fundamental problem in iraq is not jobs . unlike the mexican , chinese , or russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement is not driving the current conflict . this is a struggle for power , not economic justice or improved life . the root causes are political , sectarian , and personal .
on russia since its invasion of georgia , obama and his running mate , joe biden ( who was the first member of the us congress to visit georgia after the invasion ) emphasize helping georgia rebuild its economy and maintain its independence in the face of a continuing russian campaign against it . mccain , by contrast , wants to punish russia by actions like expelling it from the g-8 . such measures may ultimately be necessary , but they will not help georgia survive as an independent democracy . moreover , even after outrage in georgia , there are issues of common interest – such as energy , climate change , and iran – on which the west and the kremlin must cooperate . this was true even during the cold war , and remains true today , mccain seems not to recognize it .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months .
central authority is gradually eroding as the country continues to splinter into ethnic and sectarian regions , with a de facto kurdish sovereign state already well established in the north . meanwhile , in yemen , the possibility of adequate central authority is slipping away as the country confronts several seemingly intractable problems – from internal divisions and separatist movements to al qaeda ’s franchise in the arabian peninsula and a failing economy . the south ( aden ) and east ( dramaut ) are both on a trajectory toward independence , dragging yemen toward another secession struggle almost 25 years after the country ’s fragile unification . in libya , the collapse of colonel muammar el-qaddafi ’s regime has thrown the country into chaos and decimated central-government authority . the south remains lawless , while the east is ruled by the benghazi regional council ; only the west remains subject to an ill-consolidated government in tripoli .
london – after the 2008 global financial crisis , a consensus emerged that the public sector had a responsibility to bail out systemically important banks and stimulate economic growth . but that consensus proved short-lived , and soon came to view the public sector ’s economic interventions as the root cause of the crisis , and thus needed to be reversed . this turned out to be a grave mistake . in europe , in particular , governments lambasted for their high debts , even though private debt , not public borrowing , caused the collapse . many were instructed to introduce austerity rather than stimulate growth with counter-cyclical policies .
we must fight exclusion from our political parties , just as we fight exclusion in our societies . this means welcoming migrants and minorities , creating more opportunities for women and the disabled , and empowering citizens through education and participation . empowering citizens means giving them both the power to decide and the knowledge to decide well . in pasok , the greek socialist party that i lead is undertaking far-reaching reforms in this direction . likewise , the goal of socialist international is a world governed not by free markets , but by free people .
indeed , europe could destroy the eu altogether . unlike europe , the united states is emerging as the world ’s strongest economy . shale energy has given america an important competitive advantage in manufacturing in general , and petrochemicals in particular . the us banking and household sectors have made some progress in deleveraging . quantitative easing has boosted asset values .
yet , by the mid ’70s , when i first traveled to china during the cultural revolution , hardly a public surface was emblazoned with the slogan : “ down with american imperialism and its running dogs . ” even though the chinese felt incensed by foreign interference and domination , many also came to admire america for its democracy , openness , energy , and willingness to help . this divided attitude meant that china tended to react in ways that were impassioned and unpredictable , especially as its pride piqued . nothing was more repugnant to china ’s new nationalists than to the idea of a weak and aggrieved china victimized by foreign exploitation . nothing provoked a more muscular reaction after mao came to power than the humiliating prospect of a feeling unable to resist foreign predation .
third , we face steeply rising prices for fossil fuels , as developing countries drive up demand and conventional coal supplies , oil , and gas depleted . sure , we can find more fossil fuels , but at a much higher cost and at much greater environmental risk from industrial spills , waste products , leaks , and other damage . even the much-heralded shale-gas revolution is a lot of hype – similar to the gold rushes and stock bubbles of the past . shale-gas wells deplete far more rapidly than conventional fields do . and they are environmentally dirty to boot .
london – the united kingdom ’s general election is a little more than a month away , but already the campaign seems to have been with us forever , rolling out the lobbying party , but with little evidence of any genuine excitement – or even significant movement in the polls . support for the two main contenders – the labour party and the ruling conservative party ( conservative ) – seems stuck in the low-to-mid 30s . conservatives hope that the government ’s track record on the economy will persuade undecided voters to break in their favor late in the campaign . perhaps they are right ; they deserve to be . in the meantime , labour seems to hope for who-haqqs-what to turn the tide , while keeping their collective fingers crossed that they will not eviscerate in scotland , where the scottish national party is threatening to sweep the board .
is it really an american tradition not interested in what happens to others ? the second insight from psychological research summarized by bruce hood in his recent book the self illusion concerns the role of consciousness in decision-making . recent laboratory research shows that our conscious thoughts devise , ex post , compelling rationales for many decisions that our brains tend to make unconsciously . for example , former us president george w. bush might have decided to invade iraq and topple saddam hussein for many reasons : strategic advantage , humanitarian concern , and even competition with his father . most did not involve weapons of mass destruction .
other factors , in addition to trade policy , also matter . protection of property rights , civil and political liberties , protection from random violence , are among other significant factors in promoting economic growth . fiscal restraint , reflected in low government consumption relative to income growth , is also important . geographical location is also important , because things like distance from markets , bad climates , and poor soil impede economic growth in developing countries . but this makes open trade policies all the more crucial , because they are the best tools available to compensate for the bad cards that nature sometimes deals out .
durham , north carolina – my day begins with a cup of coffee and an end to hot chocolate . between now , i consume a variety of food and medicines , including my daily 81 mg dose of aspirin . a rightly colored orchid enlivens of my study and , through a window , i catch a glimpse of my green garden . in short , my life – like everyone ’s – is enabled , enriched , and extended by a wide variety of plants and derivatives . but the biodiversity on which all of us depend is under threat , because human activity is the forests of the united states and other plant-rich habitats .
ramallah – israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s decision to approve new jewish settlements on the eve of a possible settlement freeze is the latest round in a cycle that has been repeated so many times over the last 40 years that it would seem mundane if it were not so dangerous . the cycle goes something like this : american or international pressure mounts on israel to stop settlement activities in the occupied territories . israeli settlers and their supporters then gather even more energy to expand onto more palestinian land , build more exclusively jewish settlements , and destroy more arab homes before so-called “ freeze ” comes into effect . the peace process , not surprisingly , becomes a joke while this happens . eventually , world subsides and freeze fail to materialize .
san francisco – there is a big difference between the federal reserve ’s mandate to keep “ stable prices ” – as enunciated in the federal reserve act – and the fed ’s self-selected 2 % annual inflation target . so how is it that policymakers have managed to substitute the latter for the former ? the term “ stable prices ” is self-explanatory : a bundle of goods will cost the same ten , 50 , or even 100 years from now . by contrast , if a country experiences 2 % inflation over a ten-year period , the same items that a $ 100 can buy today will cost $ 122 at the end of the decade . after 100 years , the price tag will be a whopping $ 724 .
as a liberal myself , i share these values , but recognize that insisting on them as a matter of policy ultimately undermines the interests of migrants . with vehemently anti-immigrant political forces gaining ground throughout europe , one must ask whether newcomers desperate for a job are better served by admitting on a conditional basis ( including , potentially , for a limited period ) or not being admitted at all . skills-biased immigration gives rise to a similar dilemma . many in europe argue that this approach not only discriminates against the weakest groups of migrants , but also leads to a brain drain from countries that need highly skilled workers . but , again , one must examine the trade-off .
instead , the reforms were decreed from high above , without having grassroots support – and thus with no lasting durability . all we had been direct appeals to the street and the masses , rather than encouragement of genuine social consensus . such a direct method is the wellspring of authoritarianism . we must recognize that and understand that it emerges not only when the public is apathetic or frightened , but also when there is no apparent stable advanced guard , such as powerful political parties , that choose leaders and control them . as a result , russia now confronts a situation in which the president ’s election is the only political issue .
likewise , greece ’s rate is 49.3 % , but its ratio is just 13 % . and the eurozone-wide rate of 20.8 % far exceeds the 8.7 % ratio . to be sure , the youth unemployment ratio of 13 % or 19 % is not grounds for complacency . but , while the eurozone ’s youth unemployment rate has been rising since 2009 , its ratio has remained the same ( though both significantly exceed pre-2008 levels ) . during the 2006 french student protests , france ’s 22 % youth unemployment rate appeared to compare unfavorably with the 11 % rate , 12 % , and 13 % in the united kingdom , the us , and germany , respectively .
alternatively , china could eventually become a new supplier of reserve assets . in this scenario , the supply of reserve assets would align with the world ’s fast-growing regions . that connection could be direct if the renminbi acquires reserve-currency status ; or indirect if the international monetary fund ’s unit of account , special drawing rights , becomes a favored asset of reserve managers , as the renminbi now stands in the sdr basket of currencies . reserve status for the sdr is a long-held imf ambition , though the idea has never gained much traction . but there is a third possibility : global demand for us reserve assets may subside .
trump has pledged to implement sweeping tax cuts , including a cut in the corporate tax rate from 35 % to 15 % . add to that plans to subsidize infrastructure investment and increase military spending , and the american economy seems likely to face rapidly rising fiscal deficits and a massive short-term increase in demand . with the american economy already operating at close to full capacity ( unemployment is below 5 % ) , higher imports – and a stronger us dollar – will be needed to meet that demand . all of this will be good for the eurozone , for which the us remains a leading export market . but it is the peripheral countries that are likely to benefit the most .
princeton – for the last century , economic-policy debate has been locked in orbit around respective roles and virtues of state and market . does market control of the state , in the sense that it sets limits on governments ’ ability to borrow ? or does the state take charge when the market fails to perform socially necessary functions – for example , fighting wars or maintaining full employment ? this old debate is at the heart of today ’s profound divisions over how europe should respond to its debt crisis . the same question is dividing american politics in the lead-up to november ’s presidential and congressional elections .
british negotiators will then respond to eu negotiators ’ domino-theory logic by trying to make the process as painful as the rest of the eu . indeed , the uk ’s “ leave ” constituency already firmly believes that the uk would be better off on its own , and that brexit will hurt europeans far more than hurts britons . this means that the leave camp has a powerful incentive to fulfill its own prophecy . the second doom loop applies to the uk ’s domestic political economy . britain can not simply start beating europeans at its own game by reviving its automobile industry , or by making its own wine to rival french and italian producers .
the excessive domestic demand that underpinned this evolution is now gone , permanently . when deleveraging in the household sector is complete , domestic expenditure may rebound , but the saving rate will not and should not return to zero . fiscal stimulus , in the form of backloading deficit-reduction efforts , might help tide the economy over while structural adjustment and widening competitiveness in the tradable sector continue . but , by itself , stimulus is not the answer . otherwise , the shortfall in domestic demand would reassert itself when the stimulus ended .
so the american goal of regime change in baghdad does not look too bad , even if it can not be publicly supported . for president putin , it makes sense to stay on the sidelines over iraq , at least for now , and to be repaid later for his helpful silence in the form of america ’s successor iraqi regime concerning repayment of the country ’s russian debts . if america ’s war in iraq fails , the situation will hardly be worse than it is now from the narrow point of view of russian interests , while the resulting mess will be a problem for the us and its traditional allies rather than for russia . the contrast between russia ’s handling of iraq and iran ’s underlines not only mr. putin ’s famous pragmatism , but the sophistication and adroitness of his policies . this contrast also reflects the fundamental difference between iran , the historical nation state , and the artificial creation that is iraq .
kosovo ’s skepticism about serbia ’s democratic credentials derives , first and foremost , from knowing that the conflict between kosovo and serbia is structural , not based on a single man . regardless of how much milosevic exacerbated tensions , his policies toward kosovo ’s ethnic albanians were genuinely popular among serbs . indeed , throughout yugoslavia ’s wars in decades , serbia ’s attitude toward its minorities reflected a nationalist consensus in which the bulk of what was then the opposition participated . most kosovars will find talks with serbia about improved relations difficult if serbia does not undergo some sort of “ de-nazification ” process . president kostunica ’s refusal , so far , to even debate putting the international war criminals on trial , is not a hopeful omen here .
eventually , economic sanctions compelled qaddafi to distance himself from international terror and turn over megrahi – just as another suspect lamin fhima , who was later acquitted – to face a scottish tribunal at camp zeist in holland . but there was never conclusive evidence that megrahi was involved in lockerbie bombing . in fact , most experts still believe that he was convicted of using fraudulent evidence , and that the cia bribed witnesses . moreover , libya formally accepted responsibility for bombing , agreeing to pay more than $ 2 billion to victims ’ families and abandon its weapons of mass destruction program . yet , despite qaddafi ’s hope for a warmer embrace of western leaders ( and a flood of investment ) , the relationship has remained plagued by mutual suspicion and frequent backsliding .
this experience motivated it to establish its dangote academy , a center for talent development that aims to help fill nigeria ’s industrial-skill gap and beyond . such initiatives are critical to aligning education with economic development and enhanced prosperity . by 2040 , africa will have 1.1 billion working-age citizens – more than either india or china . with the right education , skills , and job opportunities , this immense workforce could deliver rapid and sustainable economic growth for the entire region . without them , the continent is more likely to experience rising unemployment , widening inequality , social disorder , and , ultimately , conflict and chaos .
the husband of another young woman , aisha , cut off her nose and ears when she ran away . violence against women in afghanistan persists for many reasons . first , the country inherited a patriarchal tribal tradition that assumes women ’s inferiority . women are thus deprived of their basic rights and freedoms , and women are also deprived of their own . second , there is a strong political incentive to deprive women of their rights .
but entering europe ’s economic and monetary union was meant to induce the political system to pursue longer-term goals , such as productivity growth and enhanced competitiveness . at first , events played out according to plan . during greece ’s accession period , from 1994 to 2001 , its economy stabilized . both inflation and fiscal deficits fell rapidly ; businesses and consumers became more confident ; investment picked up ; and the government put in place an ambitious liberalizing reform package . annual gdp growth jumped from -1.6 % in 1993 to more than 4 % in 1997 – and stayed around that level until 2007 .
for its part , the european parliament has already broadly supported such a move . momentum toward hfo phase-out in the arctic is building . the danish shipowners association and the arctic expeditionary operator hurtigruten are just two of the players calling for tighter regulation or outright prohibition . other shipping companies have highlighted the need for regulations to keep the playing field on a level . in january 2017 , hurtigruten joined the clean arctic alliance to launch the arctic commitment .
john f. kennedy was a little of both . he did one great deal : resolving the cuban missile crisis . and his gift to motivating people was unmatched ; indeed , it outlasted him , with his assassination cementing a powerful legacy . in africa , there has been no great figure since south african president nelson mandela ’s death , who combined courage , authority , and magnanimity in graceful abundance . in fact , he is among the most charismatic and charming leaders i met ; the other two – former united nations secretary-general kofi annan and former us secretary of state colin powell – are also either african or african-american .
sanibel – the restoration of diplomatic relations between cuba and the united states unlocks new prospects for the island ’s economy . some steps , including the removal of america ’s trade embargo , are prohibited by the helms-halliburton act , adopted by the american congress in 1996 . but the revival of cuba ’s membership in the international monetary fund is a real possibility . cuba was one of the imf ’s 40 original members . it participated in much of the 1944 bretton woods conference , and it had an active delegation there .
it goes without saying that academic or technical expertise is neither necessary nor sufficient to ensure government officials ’ success . indeed , many of my harvard colleagues would make terrible policymakers , owing to a lack of leadership , managerial , or other interpersonal skills . and many excellent political leaders – for example , george washington and dwight eisenhower , among us presidents – have not been intellectuals . technocrats can play a useful role as honest brokers when traditional politicians have become discredited or parties deadlocked . moreover , they have the credibility that comes with a lack of desire to be re-elected , either because their term in office has been limited in advance or because they are known to prefer quiet academic life .
today , massive investments in critical infrastructure , industrial expansion , and urban development – vital to accommodate an expanding global population , set to reach nine billion by 2050 – are being made without adequate regard for disaster risk . in the absence of a comprehensive effort to protect these new economic assets , disaster-related costs will skyrocket in the coming decades . in this sense , climate-change forecasts should challenge policymakers and business leaders to re-calibrate their perceptions of exposure and disaster risk . decision-makers must recognize that there is no such thing as a natural disaster ; there is only the catastrophic impact of natural hazards on infrastructure , including workplaces , homes , roads , schools , and hospitals . following the 2004 indian ocean tsunami – which devastated 11 countries ’ coastlines , resulting in more than 150,000 deaths , a half-million injuries , and more than $ 10 billion in damages – 168 governments agreed to the hyogo framework for action ( hfa ) , a comprehensive ten-year plan for disaster risk reduction .
two years ago , nature conservancy scientists and its partners published new research showcasing nature-based solutions ’ potential to fight climate change . yet natural climate solutions have continued to attract relatively little attention – and even less funding . fortunately , this may be starting to change . in september , nature-based solutions featured prominently at the un climate week in new york city . while that event did not live up to un secretary-general antónio guterres ’s call for “ clear steps to enhance nationally determined contributions by 2020 , ” it offered a platform to a new generation of climate and nature advocates .
just a few weeks ago , in fact , the administration was forced to admit that rouhani is fulfilling his part of the nuclear deal . indeed , iranians ’ show of popular support for rouhani provides the best guarantee that the spirit behind the nuclear deal will remain unchanged . but trump will not make it easy for rouhani to do so . to ensure that iran continues to advance toward international engagement – thereby protecting the nuclear deal that trump is not eager to defend – rouhani ’s administration will have to work hard to improve relations with neighboring countries . moreover , it will need to adopt a more constructive position vis-à-vis the syrian conflict , making it clear that iran is not spearheading the shia liberation movement .
ludicrous cases proceed , and more people are being dragged into them . mainstream independent media do not even report inconsistencies for fear of provoking the government or gülen network . these cases will eventually collapse under the weight of their collective absurdity . but the damage done will extend far beyond the suffering of hundreds of innocent individuals locked up under false pretenses . the hope that turkey is finally shedding its authoritarian vestiges and becoming a stable democracy will lie in tatters .
likewise , in july , the brics created a “ contingent reserve arrangement ” that , it was argued , “ forestall short-term balance of payments pressures , provide mutual support , and further strengthen financial stability . ” but russia is unlikely to draw on this emergency credit line in the current crisis . more recently , chinese foreign minister wang yi pledged assistance to russia . but his vague language reflected a larger hesitation that will probably persist until the crisis is over . in short , both western-dominated governance mechanisms and the brics ’ fledgling institutions have turned against russia .
they will also try to lower japan ’s dependence on exports and rethink sending production facilities to lower-wage countries . the economic impact of us politics , while important , will be less dynamic : absent a more cooperative congress , politics will mute policy responses rather than fuel greater activism . continued congressional polarization would maintain policy uncertainty , confound debt and deficit negotiations , and impede economic growth . from the medium-term fiscal reforms to delaying needed overhauls of the labor and housing markets , congressional dysfunction would keep america ’s economic performance below its capacity ; over time , it would also eat away at potential output . in other countries , the causal direction will run primarily from economics to politics .
paris – riots that rampaged across greece may have many causes , but one that is rarely mentioned is the fracturing of the greek left into george papandreou ’s traditional socialist party , pasok , and an increasingly radicalized faction that refuses all accommodation with either the european union or modern economics . to varying degrees , this divide is paralyzing socialist parties across europe . that the traditional left is so inert in the midst of today ’s economic crisis more than strange . instead of thriving on renewed doubts about capitalism , europe ’s socialist parties have failed to make any serious political inroads . in countries where they hold power , such as spain , they are now very unpopular . where they are in opposition , as in france and italy , they are in disarray – as are germany ’s social democrats , despite being part of their ruling grand coalition .
the response to 9/11 and dominique strauss-kahn ’s recent encounter with an african maid in a new york hotel has very little in common , except for one thing : once again , cultural conflict has been invoked in misleading ways . whatever happened between former managing director of the international monetary fund and his accusers , the fact that he was arrested and paraded before the press as criminal suspects has been much criticized in france . one allegation , recently made by a well-known french publicist , is that the arrest was typical of american puritanism . the french , he alleged , are from a latin culture , have a more liberal understanding of sexual behavior . they are more tolerant of human frailties , and have a more refined appreciation of seduction .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
they have reason to be proud of this . self-confidence among rulers is the psychological springs of democracy and the true freedom of the past , and can never again be diverted in our homeland . nobody ever doubted that ukraine had vastly changed in its twelve years of independence . yet , caught in the sights of a gun barrel , nobody – not even the brave men and women who camped in their hundreds of thousands in snow before ukraine ’s parliament – knew with certainty whether those changes had been wrenched ukrainians from the grip of fear and apathy . the success of their defiance shows the power of the idea that bewilders outgoing president leonid kuchma and his acolytes : that democracy means assuming responsibility for one ’s fate into one ’s own hands .
israeli prime ministers are supposed to come in two varieties : heavily accented eastern european men and grizzled military officers who talk a good game before acquiescing to the latest american or international demands for concessions , talks , and aid . while previous prime ministers like menachem begin and yitzhak shamir were not averse to lecturing , they lacked strategic cunning . netanyahu ’s unwillingness to compromise “ the ” confuses , and often enrages americans . his relentless disquisitions on israel ’s strategic environment , security imperatives , red lines , and jewish history are offset only by conciliatory talk of reopening negotiations that are instantly rejected by palestinians , who , like him , fear showing weakness . moreover , netanyahu ’s unsentimental assessment of the middle east does not align with that of the obama administration – in thrall to its collapsing romance with moderate islamists – and his devoted supporters among jewish americans .
followers are more likely to attribute charisma to leaders when they feel a strong need for change , often in the context of personal , organizational , or social crisis . the british public , for example , did not regard winston churchill as a charismatic leader in 1939 ; but , a year later , his vision , trust , and communication skills gave him charisma , given britons ’ anxiety after the fall of france and the dunkirk evacuation . and then , in 1945 , after public focus turned from winning war to constructing a welfare state , churchill voted out of office . his charisma did not foresee defeat ; change in followers ’ needs did . in practice , charisma is a vague synonym for “ personal magnetism . ”
the government also secured eu-wide agreements that , rather than reducing the size of the european commission , will allow ireland to retain a permanent seat at the commission table . this negotiating success has given the government considerable breathing space in which to conduct a more effective referendum campaign . this combination of legal guarantees and changed economic circumstances is helping to mobilize a majority in favor of the treaty . opinion polls conducted in recent weeks indicate that the yes side commands a strong majority of 62 % to 23 % , with 15 % of the electorate undecided . but the picture is far from clear-cut .
a decision to reject a merger or authorize investment that benefits a politically motivated foreign competitor might make economic sense while raising eyebrows in foreign-policy circles . the solution is not to meddle with competition rules , but to give those in charge of security some say in the decision-making process . to that end , in a forthcoming paper that i co-authored with foreign-policy experts and other economists , we propose that the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security be given the right to object on security grounds to the european commission ’s proposed mergers or investment decisions . eu member states already have such procedures . finally , the eu must do more to develop its financial toolkit and promote international use of europe .
a newly passed bill – clearly aimed at israeli arabs ’ representatives in the knesset ( parliament ) – would allow mks to be dismissed for a state of disloyalty . ngos focused on human rights and peacemaking are scrutinized as foreign agents . for israel , democracy has always been a strategic asset , because a democratic israel was a natural fit in the western alliance . while the west lost no time in imposing sanctions on president vladimir putin ’s russia following its annexation of crimea , it has not punished israel ’s occupation of palestinian lands . the more israel embraces putin-inspired practices , however , the weaker becomes its connection to its strategic rearguard in the west .
in kosovo restricting intervention to aerial bombardment made this strategy a total success : nato forces suffered not a single casualty in combat , but roughly 300 kosovar , 209 serb , and 3 chinese civilians were killed . this approach to the duties of a national leader , stated bluntly and honestly , forces the us to consider a fundamental ethical issue . to what extent should political leaders see their role narrowly , in terms of their citizens ’ promotion of interests , and to what extent should they be concerned with the welfare of people everywhere ? mr. romano prodi , president of the eu commission and italy ’s former prime minister , responded to president bush ’s most recent statement by saying that “ if one wants to be a world leader , one must know how to look after the whole earth , and not only to american industry . ” but the question is not only one for those who aspire to be world leaders .
on both of these fronts , the eu ’s lack of strategic vision has created the impression that europe is repeatedly outmaneuvered by russian president vladimir putin . it increasingly seems that ukraine is becoming locked in a “ frozen conflict ” – russia ’s foreign-policy specialty . indeed , the situation in ukraine represents a tactical victory for russia , with its fragile but enduring ceasefire – and accompanying legislation that grants donetsk and luhansk considerable political autonomy – allowing russia to entrench the conflict near the eu ’s borders . moreover , the eu ’s delayed implementation of key elements of the association agreement with ukraine is clear evidence that , at present , russia dictates the terms of eu-ukrainian engagement . in europe , the kremlin has been able to pursue a successful divide-and-rule strategy , particularly given hungary ’s decision to suspend gas flows to ukraine .
with the weak dollar hanging like the sword of damocles over the global economy , almost everyone laments america ’s spendthrift habits . but has it ever occurred to anyone how hard americans must work to make everyone else look good ? thanks to america ’s gaping trade deficits , every developing country ’s largest headache nowadays is trying to keep its or her country ’s currency from going too fast against the dollar . when was the last time that happened ? chronic debt-crisis countries from mexico to russia to south korea are all fighting capital inflows from investors looking for an exit as the dollar collapses .
new york – hurricane harvey has left in his wake upended lives and enormous property damage , estimated at $ 150-180 billion . but the rains that inundated texas coast for the better part of a week , and the hurricane that is about to hit south florida , are also raising deep questions about the united states ’ economic system and politics . it is ironic , of course , that an event so related to climate change would occur in a state that is home to so many climate-change deniers – and where the economy depends so heavily on the fossil fuels that drive global warming . of course , no particular climate event can be directly related to the rise of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere . but scientists have long predicted that such increases would boost not just average temperatures , but also weather variability – and especially the occurrence of extreme events like hurricane harvey .
rather than banding together , each new challenge has divided the eu into ever-smaller groups . europe has divided north and south ; ukraine and the refugee crisis have divided east and west . pro-europeans need to engage with sources of discontent and rethink the forms used to express the european ideal . the eu was founded on a mechanical idea that interdependence would reduce conflict . by linking europe to production together – first through the european coal and steel community , and later through the common market and europe – the eu hoped to bind european states together so closely that war between them would no longer be an option .
in nigeria today , the key question today is not whether president olusegun obasanjo will quit after his second ( and final ) term expires next year , but who will succeed him . given nigeria ’s history of sit-tight military dictatorships , that is real progress . unfortunately , it is not necessarily the president ’s . attempts by obasanjo ’s supporters to persuade the national assembly to amend the constitution to allow obasanjo to continue in office beyond two terms met with a solid opposition wall . government and commercial activities virtually ground to halt this spring as democracy activists , in alliance with politicians and legislators opposed to a third term , battled obasanjo ’s allies to thwart the proposed bill .
parfit ’s response to this line of argument leads him to make a claim that is perhaps bolder than his defense of objectivism in ethics . he considers three leading theories about what we should do – one deriving from kant , one from the social-contract tradition of hobbes , locke , rousseau , and contemporary philosophers john rawls and t.m. scanlon , and one from bentham ’s utilitarianism – argues that kantian and social-contract theories must be revised to be defensible . he then argues that these revised theories coincide with a particular form of “ “ amorphous entialism , ” a theory that is the same broad family as utilitarianism . if parfit is right , there is much less disagreement between apparently conflicting moral theories than we all thought . defenders of each of these theories are , in parfit ’s vivid phrase , “ climbing the same mountain on different sides . ”
with the rise of the corporate corporation , large family firms have generally disappeared . but that does not mean that a corporation is the right entity to engage in altruism – though its various stakeholders obviously can spend any portion of the income they earn from the corporation and other sources in altruistic ways . instead of csr , we should have psr ( personal social responsibility ) . one can also argue for csr on the grounds that asking csr becomes a way of “ passing the buck ” – evading personal responsibility for doing good . this is the flip side of blaming corporations for everything from obesity to scalding out of spilled coffee – both the subject of lawsuits in recent years .
tokyo – hillary clinton ’s recent trip to asia may one day be viewed as the most significant visit to the region by the united states diplomat since henry kissinger ’s secret mission to beijing in july 1971 . kissinger ’s mission triggered a diplomatic revolution . the revival of us-chinese relations shifted the global balance of power at the height of the cold war , preparing the way for china to open its economy – a decision that , more than any other , defined today ’s world . what clinton did , and said during her asian tour , will mark either the end of an era that kissinger initiated four decades ago , or the start of a distinct new phase in that epoch . clinton ’s tour produced the clearest signals yet that america is reluctant to accept china ’s push for regional hegemony .
chinese demand is not only growing , but , as incomes rise , its composition is shifting to more sophisticated goods and services . thus , china ’s role is changing : once the west ’s low-cost supplier , it is now becoming a major customer for western products . this represents a major opportunity for advanced economies to rebalance their growth and employment , provided they are positioned to compete for the appropriate parts of evolving supply chains . rising chinese incomes also imply structural change for china , as continued growth presupposes a shift toward higher-value activities . technology and knowledge will still be important , but china must begin to generate new technologies , in addition to absorbing western tools and skills .
historically , french diplomacy excels at grand bargains . but under merkel , germany has avoided such agreements , preferring the status quo or incremental change , because it usually wound up paying extra . for its part , macron ’s hyper-active diplomacy exposes a post-imperial inferiority complex , symptoms of which – whether brexit or putinism – impede european normalization and hamper the eu ’s mobilization to counterbalance china and the united states . macron ’s rhetoric suggests that he wants to fight these symptoms . but his recent actions seem to be reproducing them .
dublin – europe ’s needs , and europeans ’ aspirations are at odds . at a time when strong , coordinated action is needed to stave off the european union ’s financial meltdown , popular support that drove european integration over the last six decades is waning . after almost 70 years of peace , europeans seem to have forgotten why unity was so important , indulging nationalist sentiment without regard for its potential consequences . at the same time , they fail to grasp that their economies are too closely interconnected for independent economic policies to work . this failure is rooted in electoral politics ’ confinement of individual countries , which forces politicians to pretend that they can address economic issues with national policies alone .
skeptics have a point , but they go too far . for one thing , it is still too early to judge the merits of the argument . a full assessment of the iraq war and its effects on the middle east will take a decade or more . clearly , the january 2005 elections have been positive for the region . in the last six months , national elections have been held in lebanon and local elections in saudi arabia .
in 1989 , the region ’s peoples brought with them in their “ return to europe ” their diversity and richness ; their vivacity , mysteries , and memories ; and their old and new aspirations . and they brought the lesson that moving from a closed society to an open one is both possible and extremely difficult . as thomas mann once wrote , “ freedom is more complicated than power . ” freedom changes the frame and substance of choice , and individual and collective responsibility . it highlights the contrast between initiative and apathy , enterprise and obedience , competition , and total dependence on a state that embodies a kind of unshakable fate .
cambridge – major tax reform is high on the agenda for the united states in 2017 . the republican-controlled house of representatives has been preparing for this for years , creating detailed plans for overhauling how corporate and personal income are taxed . now , with a republican majority in the senate and a republican president in the white house , those plans can provide the basis for legislative action . the proposed corporate-tax reform is particularly significant . i believe that it will have a highly favorable impact on business investment , raising productivity , and overall economic growth .
this alliance between the two parties led to severe distortions in fundamental western values . palme and oskar lafontaine , then one of the opposition leaders in germany , saw neither the cold war nor the conflict as primarily a conflict between freedom and tyranny . when palme visited east germany in 1984 , he never criticized repression there , nor the berlin wall . instead , palme praised east germany 's leader , erich honecker , underscoring shared goals and mutual struggle for peace and development . palme 's main speech mentioned " détente , " " " " trust , " and " friendship , " but never " freedom " .
another type of revolution occurred in europe ’s former colonies in asia , where indigenous peoples had no desire to be ruled once more by western powers , which had been so ignominiously defeated by japan . vietnamese , indonesians , filipinos , burmese , indians , malays , and malays wanted their freedom , too . often , these aspirations were voiced in the united nations , founded in 1945 . the un , like the dream of european unity , was also part of the 1945 consensus . for a short time , many prominent people – albert einstein , for one – believed that only a world government would ensure global peace .
guided by one of the architects of the problem , hank paulson , who advocated for deregulation and allowing banks to take on even more leveraging , it was no surprise that the administration veered from one policy to another – each strategy supported absolute conviction until minutes before it was abandoned for another . even if confidence were really all that mattered , the economy would sunk . moreover , what little action was taken to shoring up the financial system . but the financial crisis is only one of the few crises facing the country : the underlying macroeconomic problem was made worse by sinking fortunes of the bottom half . those who would spend had no money .
amid a foreign-capital bonanza , stagnant levels of private investment in tradable goods are a particularly potent signal that no amount of government mythmaking should be allowed to override . officials face a simple choice : maintain strong prudential controls on capital flows , or be prepared to invest a large share of resources in self-insurance by accumulating large foreign reserves . the deeper problem lies in the excessive financialization of the global economy that has occurred since the 1990s . the policy dilemmas that have resulted – rising inequality , greater volatility , reduced room for real economy management – will continue to preoccupy policymakers in the decades ahead . it is true , but unhelpful , to say that governments have only themselves to blame for having recklessly rushed into this wild ride .
even a relatively small amount of material such as cobalt-60 – used in radiotherapy – could cause serious harm if combined with conventional explosive devices in what is called a dirty bomb ( or otherwise deliberately used to expose the public to dangerous radiation ) . foreign and energy ministers will have an opportunity to strengthen the global nuclear-security framework when they meet at the international conference on nuclear security : enhancing global efforts in vienna on july 1-5 . this will be the first such event that is open to all countries . at the top of the agenda should be ratification of improvements to a crucial nuclear-security instrument – second vention of the physical protection of nuclear material . the proposed amendment would oblige countries to protect nuclear material when it is used or stored , not just when transported internationally , as is now the case .
this time , singh came from the initiative , who invited his pakistani counterpart , prime minister yousuf raza gilani , to visit mohali , near new delhi , to watch the two countries play the semi-final in the cricket world cup . the match played on march 30 , with pakistan losing narrowly . on the political side , however , both countries were not evenly matched . of the troika that currently governs pakistan – the president , the prime minister , and the army ’s chief staff – it is the prime minister who carries the least amount of authority . it was gilani who sat next to singh to watch the game ; but , ultimately , process rather than protocol , will determine how bilateral relations move forward .
indonesia argues that a nation ’s right to control all information on locally discovered viruses should be protected through the same mechanisms that the united nations food and agriculture organization uses to guarantee poor countries ’ ownership rights and patents on the seeds of its indigenous plants . under the fao ’s seed treaty , a nation can register plants , share their seeds , and derive profits from the resulting products . this useful policy reduces exploitative practices that sometimes enable multinational corporations and wealthy governments to extract outrageous profits from indigenous agriculture . it is dangerous folly , however , to extend this policy to viruses . if the concept of “ viral sovereignty ” was applied to hiv 25 years ago , we would not have the central repositories of thousands of varieties of hiv today ; these allow researchers to test drugs and vaccines against all the different strains of the virus that causes aids .
the new government ’s biggest challenge will be to implement reforms that enable italy ’s economic performance to catch up to that of its neighbors after years of bad policies and neglect . this requires increased investment in innovation and human capital . from 1992 to 2011 , labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , the lowest in the oecd . since 2001 , unit labor costs have been growing faster than real gdp and employment , undermining the economy ’s competitiveness vis-à-vis developing countries . in the last decade , italy ’s share of global exports has fallen from 3.9 % to 2.9 % .
but technical ability is not the only or even the main issue . conflicting motivations are probably a more important reason why citizens increasingly distrust experts . there is a misconception at work . policy wonks think of themselves as unbiased purveyors of high-quality , evidence-based advice . informed citizens reasonably fear that wonk in question may be in thrall to a particular ideology or methodology ; that the advice may be politically motivated ; or that advisers may tailor their counsel to their own career concerns ( how to get that plum job on wall street after leaving government , for example ) .
whichever party combination emerges on top – and helmut kohl ’s coalition still needs to be viewed as a narrow favorite – it will enjoy a meager majority , depending on any major initiative on the unlikely support of its political adversaries . germany thus seems destined to be stuck in the doldrums for some time . the price of inaction is considerable . while exports are booming , unemployment remains stubbornly high . disillusionment with politics is increasing , and may even bring down right-wing populists whom democratic germany has so far been spared .
europe ’s position as the world ’s largest trading bloc , with almost 40 % of all international commerce and the growing significance of europe – crisis notwithstanding – as a reserve currency means that the eu , just as the us , can set the agenda for negotiating a new global rulebook . the difference is that america acts decisively . of course , europe occupies the moral high ground that america has mostly vacated , owing to its mis-adventures in iraq and afghanistan . europe ’s leadership on climate change and development aid could , if handled , form the foundation for a new moral authority . but there is little sign of governments taking advantage of this opportunity .
madrid – having secured a fifth term ( and his fourth in a row ) as israel ’s prime minister , binyamin netanyahu is on track to surpassing david ben-gurion , the founding father of the state , as his country ’s longest-serving leader . yet netanyahu ’s israel would hardly be recognizable to ben-gurion , who strived to combine the country ’s jewish character with democracy . as l.p. hartley wrote in the go-between : “ the past is a foreign country : they do things differently . ” following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
in september 2008 , for example , former president roman herzog published a polemic entitled “ stop the ecj ! ” he accused luxembourg of grabbing ever-greater competences at the expense of member states , and urged the constitutional court to invalidate several controversial ecj rulings . herzog ’s broadside resonated across europe , where , for some time , there has been considerable disquiet about “ judicial activism ” and what some see as an irreversible trend toward the ecj and other eu institutions . in many member states , the ecj ’s decisions have produced a backlash , especially on the left , with trade unions and social movements targeting the court ’s alleged zeal to siding with business over workers ’ interests . such arguments were successfully deployed during the 2005 referenda on the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands , and in ireland during the lisbon treaty referendum .
at the same time , countries must facilitate workers ’ ability to change jobs through reforms to their labor markets and social safety nets . this means shifting the focus from backward-looking labor-market policies to efforts to protect workers in existing jobs , future-oriented measures , such as innovative insurance mechanisms and active labor-market policies . moreover , social contracts based on formal long-term employer-employee relationships will have to be overhauled , with benefits such as retirement and health care making more portable and tailored to evolving work arrangements , including the expanding gig economy . here , several proposals have already been put forward , including universal basic income , currently piloted in finland and some sub-national jurisdictions , such as ontario , canada ; negative income taxes ; and various types of portable social security accounts that pool workers ’ benefits . on both of these fronts , france is setting a positive example .
as brig. general robert caslen , the pentagon ’s deputy director for the war on terrorism , put it , “ we are not killing them faster than they are being created . ” the us , too , is failing in the application of soft power . according to caslen , “ we in the pentagon are behind our adversaries in using communication – either to recruit or train . ” the manner in which the us uses military power also affects rumsfeld ’s ratio . in the aftermath of 9/11 , there was good sympathy and understanding around the world for america ’s military response to the taliban .
our study concludes that india can have faster economic and industrial growth , higher rates of energy use , and cleaner environments . but this is not what has happened so far . air , soil , and water pollution have been increasing , causing hundreds of thousands of deaths each year . the key to a clean future is clean technologies whose costs have been steadily falling and will continue to do so . sometimes these technologies pay for themselves and adopt them .
the private sector also brings innovation to the classroom . for example , some providers are developing teaching models in which students can watch the “ teacher ” created videos online outside of class to allow precious piñer-student to focus on interacting rather than lecturing . similarly , skilled teachers can now deliver interactive e-lessons to many classrooms at once , even if they are hundreds of miles away . as a result , students in places where schools have not yet been built , or too few qualified teachers are available , can still get an education . after all , a lecture from a good teacher – even if it is broadcast over the internet – is preferable to facing time with an untrained adult .
the obama administration has already moved against chinese exports of tires and steel pipes , but this year ’s confrontation will extend well beyond trade . when the us congress takes up the debate over climate change , for example , and some legislators call for a cap-and-trade system , others will demand to know why america should accept binding commitments to limit emissions while the chinese refuse . china ’s leaders , in no mood to play the scapegoat , will use surging national pride to bolster their position and strengthen their hand in the negotiations . the chinese government has invested heavily in recent years in state-owned companies and privately-owned “ national champions , ” mainly to ensure that china gains from the power of markets , while the leadership controls as much spoils as it can . to help these domestic powerhouses increase their market leverage , the government often favors them at the expense of foreign competitors .
but , faced with the possibility that today ’s low inflation may be the result of permanent supply shocks , they are also reluctant to ease more now . so , even though central banks are not willing to give up on their formal 2 % inflation target , they are willing to prolong the timeline for achieving it , as they have done time and again , effectively conceding that inflation may stay low for longer . otherwise , they would have to sustain for much longer their unconventional monetary policies , including quantitative easing and negative policy rates – an approach with which most central banks ( with the possible exception of the bank of japan ) are not comfortable . this central bank patience risks de-anchoring inflation expectations downward . but continuing for much longer with unconventional monetary policies also carries the risk of undesirable asset-price inflation , excessive credit growth , and bubbles .
to achieve an agreement of similar scale and influence , world leaders – especially in the us and china – would have to come under similarly high pressure . a global pact would have to be an urgent necessity , rather than an attractive possibility . what would persuade chinese leaders that they must rapidly reinforce an open global economy that enabled china ’s export-driven economic rise ? one such catalyst might be a financial crisis emanating from the country ’s risk-laden shadow-banking system . a contest for global leadership might serve that purpose just as well .
winston churchill ’s famous denunciation of the british ’ delaying tactics on the eve of world war ii should serve as a warning to french president nicolas sarkozy . in fanning vicious anti-immigrant passions for short-term political gain , he will have dishonor first and then defeat . for , while a majority of french today may be inclined to sympathize with sarkozy ’s immigrant-bashing rhetoric , there is no guarantee that he will be re-elected in 2012 . it is not so much sarkozy ’s performance as president that most frenchmen reject ; it is his essence . at a time of rising unemployment , with france dominated by fears about the future , the french need a reassuring father or mother figure , not a jittery and manipulative leaderready to compromise ethics , and france ’s proud tradition that every citizen is entitled to equality under the rule of law .
millions end up in protracted displacement , spending an estimated 25 years , on average , stuck in limbo , unsure when they might return home . in 2016 , developed countries should agree to accept a combined approaching one million refugees annually , either through resettlement or through the issuance of humanitarian , student , labor , and other visas . with canada alone saying that it will resettle 50,000 syrian refugees this year , this target is achievable . at the same time , the international community must support the integration of refugees in major host countries like turkey , kenya , lebanon , and jordan . as it stands , such countries receive just a fraction of the $ 3,000-5,000 per refugee annually required to provide adequate housing , food , health care , schooling , and job training during the first years of displacement .
berkeley – inequality is on the public ’s mind almost everywhere nowadays . indeed , in the world ’s two largest democracies , india and the united states , widespread popular movements against rising inequality and elite greed are becoming highly salient issues in looming national elections . yet in both countries , some social inequalities have been on the decline over the last few decades . in india , certain historically disadvantaged groups ( especially among the lower castes ) are now becoming politically assertive . the most egregious vestiges of caste discrimination are gradually disappearing .
but unemployment continues to rise in the heavily indebted southern countries , and output continues to lag behind germany and other northern european countries . the main reason for lag is not simply low demand or large debts . there is a huge gap between unit labor costs – real ( inflation-adjusted ) wages – in germany and the heavily indebted southern countries . when the crisis began , production costs in greece were roughly 30 % higher than in germany , so greece exported very little and imported very much . production costs in other heavily indebted countries were 20-25 % higher than in germany .
most important , despite russian army massed against us president viktor yanukovych , we are embarking on an election campaign . next month , ukraine ’s citizens will freely choose a new president – the best rebuke to russian propaganda about our supposed inability to uphold democracy . and yet , as ukrainians work to rebuild our country after viktor yanukovych ’s predatory rule , we are facing a new threat , in the form of a “ peace offensive ” – that old staple of soviet diplomacy designed to undermine western resolve . russian president vladimir putin ’s recent phone call to us president barack obama to seek renewed diplomatic talks , followed by a russian white paper on how to resolve the kremlin ’s crisis of making , is actually a peace offensive offensive that is offensive to peace . putin ’s gambit is akin to the infamous 1945 yalta conference , where joseph stalin made winston churchill and franklin d. roosevelt complicit in a european split that enslaved half of the continent for almost a half-century .
in 1973 , dimona defenders downed a wayward libyan civilian airliner heading for the reactor , killing 108 people . but the 1991 persian gulf war upset whatever solace israel could take from the past . iraqi scud missiles bombarded tel aviv , and one came close to hitting dimona . hezbollah ’s bombardment of northern israel in 2006 further demonstrated the country ’s vulnerability to missile attack . and , while israel ’s arrow of ballistic missile defenses , now surrounding dimona , may be superior to the patriot system that failed in 1991 , syria ’s more advanced scuds , and iran ’s shahab 3 rocket present a more capable challenge than saddam ’s projectiles .
moreover , the us financial authorities ’ ability to stimulate the economy is constrained by the unwillingness of the rest of the world to accumulate additional dollar reserves . until recently , investors hoped that the american federal reserve would do whatever it takes to avoid a recession , because that is what it did on previous occasions . now , they must recognize that the fed may no longer be in a position to do so . with oil , the fed , and other commodities firm , and the renminbi appreciating somewhat faster , the fed also has to worry about inflation . if interest rates were lowered beyond a certain point , the dollar would come under renewed pressure and long-term bonds would actually go up in yield .
and , when she marry and has children of her own , she benefits from two educated , employed parents , which means twice as much literate conversations in home , twice contacts , and twice encouragement to succeed . educated , pushy mothers make all the difference . as us secretary of state hillary clinton put it in the newsweek issue , “ the world needs to think more strategically and creatively about tapping into the potential of women to grow . studies show that helping women access trade and grow businesses helps create jobs and boost incomes . ” but , at worst , on the planet , forcing uneducated women to stay home is more socially acceptable than confronting the reality of this means choosing to drag incomes down for all .
one of the factors driving the uk ’s sense of unease in its relations with an increasingly bureaucratized europe is the belief that its values and institutions are closer to those of the us or other english-speaking former colonies . by the 1990s , british euroskeptics coined the term anglosphere ” to describe a model that was more successful and expansionary than that of the eu . the us was the “ other woman ” undermining britain ’s loyalty to the eu as an attractive permanent partner . as a result , britain lost much of its ability to make an effective contribution to european reform . indeed , the last time britain had a strong european voice more than two decades ago .
but the battle between pro- and anti-europeans masking what really is at stake - and thus what should be the focus of electoral debate : how europe can generate sustained economic growth . rather than endless defense against euroskepticism , this question should be the main item of deliberation for parties that are pushing for an improved europe for all . broad-based recovery – in investment , demand , and employment – is the best weapon with which to confront those who would destroy the european project . the upcoming elections will render public judgment about the success or failure of the austerity policies that have been undertaken . but it will also determine whether europe will remain the world ’s leading economic power , maintain its social model , and safeguard its human-rights and liberties framework in a world that will not wait for europeans to resolve their differences .
then there is the concept of systemic risk , which is not only in the eye of the beholder , but that may be impossible to predict . the mexican 1994-1995 crisis was seen as a systemic risk from washington , but not from most european capitals . americans thought europeans parochial ; they thought that the us disproportionately influenced its 2000 mile border with mexico . everyone agrees that ecuador posed no systemic risk ( though it was an emergency ! ) , but what about brazil ? and who , before july 1998 , thought that a russian default would trigger a global financial panic ?
southern european members must reduce their wage costs to claw back the competitiveness that they have lost since adopting the common currency . concern about such divergences has also reached the task force headed by european union president herman van rompuy to devise fundamental reforms to the rules of intra-eu economic policy coordination . a key proposal from the task force ’s first meeting was to develop competitiveness indicators , and then force member countries to take “ remedial action ” ( sforce ) should the eu find large divergences . but this approach risks leading in the wrong direction . competitiveness , which is usually measured in unit labor costs , is a relative concept .
mexico city – during the spanish civil war , thousands of young americans went to spain to join the fight against fascism as part of the “ abraham lincoln brigade . ” today , as more people wake up to the threat that us president donald trump poses to the rule of law , human rights , and the international order , a new global opposition movement is emerging to defend democracy and basic decency . the opposition could adopt three tactics . one approach is simply to wait and hope that trump is turning into a lame duck by damning revelations about his administration . better yet , trump could be impeached or removed from office under the 25th amendment of the american constitution if enough members of his own administration consider him incapable of fulfilling the duties of the presidency .
no single measure would do more to make the world a less dangerous place than a substantial reduction in its consumption of oil . and no single measure would do more to reduce global oil consumption than a sharp increase in the country ’s gasoline tax , which consumes more of it than any other : the us . if americans were to pay more for gasoline , they would use less of it . with gasoline prices high , alternative energy sources such as ethanol and alternative forms of transportation such as electrically powered automobiles would become commercially viable . none of this would happen immediately . in the short term , americans would have to make modest economic sacrifices in the form of higher fuel prices .
new york – internet firms are supposedly all about cutting edge , but reality and buzz sometimes conflict . consider groupon : its focus is the power of groups , but its actual business is the old direct-mail marketing standby and coupons . but groupon spreads that model to a much broader audience – not so much to coupon users , but rather to merchants offering coupons . in fact , groupon is doing for e-mail marketing what other internet companies are doing for yellow pages or classified ads : encouraging merchants to use modern technology to reach their customers . clearly , the model makes sense for a lot of customers : groupon now has more than 50 million subscribers , and aims to reach 150 million by year-end .
the prevailing view is that the downward trend largely reflects the fall in equilibrium or “ natural ” interest rates , driven by changes in saving and investment fundamentals . in other words , a higher propensity to save in emerging economies , together with investors ’ growing preference for safe assets , has boosted the supply of saving worldwide , even as weak growth prospects and heightened uncertainty in advanced economies have depressed investment demand . this perceived decline in “ natural ” interest rates is viewed as the key to economic recovery , because it impedes the capacity of monetary policy to provide sufficient stimulus by pushing real rates below equilibrium levels , owing to the zero lower bound on nominal rates . how to stem the decline in equilibrium rates has thus become the subject of lively debate . conspicuously absent from the debate , however , the role of financial factors in explaining the trend of the decline in real rates is the role of financial factors .
as enrico moretti of the university of california at berkeley emphasized in his book the new geography of jobs , the salience of this new divide is unmistakable : university graduates account for half of the total population in the most affluent american metropolitan areas , but four times less in worse-off areas . economic shocks tend to exacerbate this political divide . those who happen to live and work in traditional manufacturing districts caught up in the turmoil of globalization are multiple losers : their jobs , their housing wealth , and their children ’s and relatives ’ fortunes are all highly correlated . in fascinating new research , mit ’s david autor and his co-authors have explored the political consequences . they find that america ’s districts where the economy was hit severely by chinese exports have responded by substituting for moderate representatives with more radical politicians – either from the left or the right .
the un commission of inquiry collected information identifying some of those responsible for the crimes it investigated , but it has not made it public . the names of those responsible should be disclosed , either by the commission or by another body created by the un human rights council . those to be named should be announced , and given the chance to refute findings . failure to respond , or if their responses are unconvincing , their names and the crimes attributed to them should be made public . the human rights council could act on its own .
the scars of colonialism are fresher in france than anywhere else in europe ; the country has europe ’s largest muslim minority ; and , with moderates seeming particularly weak and divided , the extreme right is cresting in opinion polls . these ingredients could already constitute a recipe for disaster . already , le pen seems to be reverting to form . “ national unity is a pathetic political maneuver , ” she complained after being invited to rally the day after the attack . but , if the right leaders are at the helm , the january 7 attack could spur a renewed sense of collective purpose and political revival .
that means increasing capital and human capital intensity across both the tradable and non-tradable sectors of the economy . on the tradable side , one should look for structural change and shifting output toward higher-value-added components of global supply chains . here , innovation and the conditions that support it – including competition and free entry and exit from the market – play an important role . if policymakers choose a model based on a large state-dominated sector protected from internal and external competition , innovation objectives are unlikely to be met , adversely affecting future growth . the non-tradable side , meanwhile , should grow .
elections alone , of course , do not make democracy any more democratic . consider those cases when elections empower a majority ethnic or religious group that then rides roughshod over minorities – an outcome that has been seen all too often in the balkans , for example . then there are cases when a leader ’s election is treated as if it somehow legitimizes the subsequent emergence of dictatorship . this has been the case in russia , which , since president vladimir putin ’s first electoral victory in 2000 , has become a potemkin democracy . this year , another election , neither free nor fair , will give putin another term in office .
but iranians are nothing like the nazis , and there is no country like the soviet union posing the kind of threat that inspired us president richard nixon to head to beijing in 1972 . equally problematic has been the tendency to compare the two sets of negotiations . beyond timing , they have little in common . what they share is that their “ success ” was driven largely by the sense that powerful external threats made the alternative – no deal at all – much worse . in greece ’s case , negotiations were propelled by the specter of embittered greece cozying up to russian president vladimir putin , with his dangerous revisionist ambitions , or acting as a conduit for europe-bound migrants .
what if that advantage comes from using a performance-based drug ? for athletes seeking to compete clean , the threat that they may be beaten by a competitor who is not faster , stronger , or more dedicated , but who takes a drug to gain the edge is profoundly personal . when drugs are prohibited but some athletes use them anyway in the playing field tilts in favor of cheater . if we prohibit drugs in the olympic games , we owe it to athletes to deter , detect , and punish those who cheat . integrity seems like an old-fashioned idea , but it is at the heart of who we are and how we live .
meanwhile , external forces have compounded the problem . south korea ’s admission to the oecd has required its government to dismantle capital controls , exposing the economy to inflows of short-term “ hot money . ” more generally , countries felt pressure from the imf and the american treasury to remove capital-flow restrictions , which have magnified the risks and made pegged exchange rates more problematic . this sketch of the crisis highlights how much has changed over the subsequent 20 years . for starters , crisis countries have ratcheted down their investment rates and growth expectations to sustainable levels .
beyond this , the dollar is not going anywhere . it is not about to replace the euro or the yen , given that both europe and japan have serious economic problems of their own . the renminbi is coming , but not before 2020 , by which time shanghai will become a world-class international financial center . and , even then , the renminbi will probably share the international stage with the dollar , not replace it . the one thing that could precipitate the dollar ’s demise would be reckless economic mismanagement .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
i and a number of other affluent americans contribute millions of dollars to grass-roots organizations engaged in the 2004 presidential election . we are deeply concerned with the direction in which the bush administration is taking the united states and the world . if americans reject president bush ’s policies at the polls , america can write off the bush doctrine as a temporary aberration and resume its rightful place in the world . if american voters endorse those policies , the american people must live with the world ’s hostility and endure a vicious cycle of escalating violence . in this effort , i committed $ 10 million to “ america coming together , ” ( act ) “ grass-roots get-the-vote operation , and $ 2.5 million to the 'moveon.org voter fund , ” a popular online advocacy group airing advertisements to highlight the administration ’s misdeeds .
while russia has not overtaken the us , 20 % of respondents cited the country as their “ best friend ” outside the middle east and north africa . but russia is likely to disappoint its fans in the middle east , not least as a regional peace broker . after america ’s peace negotiations with the afghan taliban failed – and almost 30 years after the end of the decade-long soviet occupation of the country – the kremlin stepped in to mediate discussions between the taliban and representatives of other afghan groups . yet the middle east – a region of manifold conflicts stemming from religious , ethnic , political , historical , and strategic factors – has time and again exhausted the commitment of foreign actors . there is little reason to think that a russia that has never been particularly inclined toward long-term peace-building will mediate , let alone underwrite , durable peace agreements .
but experience shows that the decision to retire or work fewer hours affects the compensation that this group members receive . and this sum partly reflects the fact that the employed people who collect social security and medicare are subject to the payroll tax that finances them . the payroll tax paid by employees is 6.65 % ( employers pay the same rate ) , and is in addition to the personal income tax . moreover , because of the complex rules that govern the level of social security benefits , the older worker who pays this payroll tax is likely to receive no extra benefits . for many older workers , the choice is not whether to work .
eu enlargement will bring enormous impetus to europe as a whole , particularly the baltic region from which so many new eu members will come . up to now , the eu has centered on interest in kaliningrad on how to restrict visa rights that oblast citizens now use to traverse poland and the baltic states so as to visit the rest of russia . the eu will , however , increase trade and economic growth , and these could provide real incentives to make kaliningrad a more attractive neighbor and trading partner , not just a fear source of illegal russian immigrants to the eu , taking advantage of a supposedly lax visa regime . if this fails , however , the contrasts between kaliningrad and the rest of the region will be shamefully striking . the eu must forge close cooperation with russia ’s leaders and kaliningrad oblast in designing a viable future for the enclave .
without nuclear fusion , future generations ’ energy options will be severely constrained – creating a serious problem for developed and developing countries alike . lev artsimovich , the inventor of tokamak , has said that “ fusion will be ready when society needs it . ” one hopes that it is right . but , rather than depending on fusion researchers to defy odds , the world should step up investment in technology . our future may depend on it .
would the imf not have insisted on a much tougher program , with less financing , for any country outside the eurozone ? the apparent explanation for the imf ’s extraordinary gamble is that the managing director who made the decision to support greece so heavily hailed the eurozone and barely recoiled its ambitions for running for the french presidency – that is , before his arrest in new york on charges of rape . europeans , moreover , dominate the fund ’s leadership . it is the discomforting conflict of interest that debtors dominate an international institution that lends them vast sums . this mismanagement should disqualify any eurozone policymaker from the imf ’s managing directorship , and yet christine lagarde , french finance minister , was named to succeed her compatriot dominique strauss-kahn after his resignation .
so the three problems europe faces in the second half of this year are closely connected . the eu will need the strongest leadership team it can find to steer through treacherous waters and implement crucial financial reforms . just now , the signs are far from promising . there are few new faces or ideas on the horizon . we must hope to be surprised .
a more nuanced approach would focus on eliminating the underlying , interconnected barriers women face in getting nominated for elected office and conducting successful campaigns . such obstacles include the electoral system itself ( women fare better under proportional representation than they do in first-past-the-post systems based on single-member districts ) ; lack of access to financing ; weaker professional networks ; and outside responsibilities that make it harder to take punishing and unpredictable working conditions . overcoming such structural barriers requires a comprehensive strategy to support female candidates . one of the most powerful tools is money . in many countries , campaigning costs become prohibitively high for most aspirants , regardless of gender .
this reflects both a public-investment deficiency and an information gap : investing in job training in a rapidly evolving industrial structure is like firing at a moving target . given imperfect information about future needs , labor markets are out of equilibrium . powerful technological and global market forces are not confined to any single country . the same issues arise everywhere , with differences in outcomes reflecting variability in market flexibility and social-policy choices . these adverse trends date back to around 1980 .
wikipedia ’s boosters trumpet it as heralding the advent of “ web 2.0 . ” whereas “ web 1.0 ” facilitated the storage and transmission of vast amounts of information in cyberspace , “ web 2.0 ” supposedly renders the entire process interactive , removing the final frontier separating information and receiver . but we have been here before – in fact , for most human history . the sharp divide between producers and consumers of knowledge began only about 300 years ago , when book printers secured royal protection for their trade in the face of piracy in a rapidly expanding literary market . the legacy of their success , copyright law , continues to impede attempts to render cyberspace a free marketplace of ideas .
that is somewhat ironic : removing the uk from the ecj ’s jurisdiction is now one of may ’s principal aims . so delegation after delegation from ministers , mayors , and assorted financial center lobbyists filled london ’s top hotels and provided a welcome boost to high-end restaurant trading . luxembourg , frankfurt , dublin , and others have been making glossy presentations about their cities ’ competitive advantages over london : lower property costs , lower corporate tax rates ( that sounds plausible when argued with irish accent ) , michelin-starred restaurants , and porsche dealerships – all essential services that make up a vibrant financial center . some of these presentations have raised wry smile or two . french president françois hollande was elected on a claim that the world of high finance was his enemy .
that reasoning has led iran ’s leaders to dial up its disruptive activities in multiple theaters , not least by seizing a british tanker in the strait of hormuz last month ( they have also noted that the uk is europe ’s weak link ) . iran ’s increasing aggressiveness has already raised hackles in israel , which is reportedly targeting iranian assets in iraq ( having already launched strikes against iranian forces in syria ) . the danger now is that iran or its proxies in the middle east will misread the situation and cross the red line . iran has understandably been frustrated with europe ’s slow progress in launching the “ axis of hormuz , ” a bartering mechanism designed to allow some trade between europe and iran , despite us sanctions . but those in iran who claim that they have gotten nothing from europe are simply wrong .
so managers are quick to embrace “ aggressive ” or “ creative ” accounting methods that flatters earnings projections , conceals risks , and portrays a smooth record of profit growth . finally , managers , not distant shareholders , control access to well-paying appointments and lucrative consulting jobs . so internal and external auditors often co-opted . to be sure , america ’s corporate and securities scandals exposed regulatory gaps-insufficient enforcement of disclosure requirements , or excessive reliance on peer review for auditors and so-called “ chinese walls ” to keep brokerage and investment-banking activities separate . moreover , american accounting standards have been unable to cope with bookkeeping ’s uncharted frontiers of off-balance sheet transactions , structured financing methods , and byzantine contract valuations .
countries in asia – indeed , countries throughout the developing world – are simply not exporting their abundant and economically important genetic resources . the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) , signed in 1992 , pledged an international regime on access and benefit sharing ( arabs ) of genetic resources . this would enable researchers and companies to access the developing world ’s genetic treasure trove in return for a share of the profits that they then develop . but brokering the arabs regime has proven elusive , and , in the absence of an international agreement , diminishing access and thus declining benefit-sharing over the last five or so years has been achieved . this implies potentially huge economic , environmental , and social losses to both the developed and developing world .
the benefits of economic growth will be less unequally distributed than in the last few years , even though they will still accrue disproportionately to those who are already better off . the second group , led by china , will stabilize at lower growth rates than recent historical averages , while continuing to structurally . they will gradually reorient their growth models to make them more sustainable – an effort that occasional bouts of global financial-market instability will shake but not derail . and they will work to deepen their internal markets , improve regulatory frameworks , empower the private sector , and expand the scope of market-based economic management . a third group , led by europe , will struggle as continued economic stagnation fuels social and political disenchantment in some countries , complicating regional policy choices .
once again , european companies have borne the costs of such measures . and , because european firms are so heavily integrated with america ’s economy , europe has struggled to maintain an autonomous foreign policy toward iran . unless europe can be made into an international currency to rival the dollar , europe ’s economy will remain highly vulnerable to american extraterritoriality . a third area of soft-power weaponization has been technology , particularly with respect to 5g . unlike 3g and 4g broadband systems , 5g deployment has far-reaching security and geopolitical implications , because it promises not only to improve mobile telephony , but also to accelerate the development of the internet of things and the digitalization of entire economies .
so what accounts for the partisan performance gap ? blinder and watson suggest that five factors – oil shocks , productivity growth , defense spending , foreign economic growth , and consumer confidence – may together account for 56 % of the growth gap . but it is impossible to know the extent to which these factors were influenced by america ’s president ’s policies . we know even less about the factors responsible for the other 44 % of the performance gap . in assessing clinton ’s statements on the topic , fact-checkers make much of the finding by blinder and watson that , contrary to widespread assumptions , fiscal and monetary policies are not more “ pro-growth ” or expansionary under republican presidents , and thus can not explain the performance differential .
but , with myanmar included , this may be too difficult politically , with asean sub-grouping potentially more realistic . another possibility is for the american press for the trans-pacific partnership . this was proposed late in the bush administration to forge ties with some asean members – singapore , vietnam , and brunei – as well as others across the pacific . this could be built up to include other open southeast asian economies – malaysia and thailand – with the eventual goal being the apec-wide agreement , which would be an impressive achievement if realized by the end of 2011 , when it will be obama ’s turn to play host to all asean leaders . in this time of crisis and unemployment , the american public may question freer trade .
the trouble is that few outsiders seem to be listening , much less preparing to confront the eventual limits of central-bank effectiveness . as a result , they risk aggravating potential challenges . this is particularly true of those policymaking entities that possess far better tools for addressing advanced economies ’ growth and employment challenges . rather than take advantage of the opportunity provided by central banks ’ unconventional monetary policies to respond effectively , too many have slipped into an essentially dormant mode of inaction and denial . in the united states , for the fifth year in row , congress has yet to pass a full-fledged budget , let alone address the economy ’s growth and employment headwinds .
meanwhile , only 15 % of private-sector employees – people who presumably rely on government-funded education and infrastructure – receive the type of fixed-benefit retirement plan that will cushion ryan ’s retirement , according to the center for pension rights . to restore fairness , the government should follow the lead of the private sector and link politicians ’ pensions to their performance . like high-level managers at publicly traded private companies , policymakers who made bad decisions should face clawbacks in the form of reduced pensions . a pension is a long-term commitment from the state – and ultimately the taxpayer – to an individual politician . if politicians receive pensions starting at age 50 , as ryan does , retirement benefits could realistically be paid out for 40-plus years .
abbas ’s presidential term has expired , and elections are constantly being postponed . salam fayyad , like his hamas counterparts in gaza , rules by decree , keeps parliament inactive , and silences the opposition . with no institutionalized democratic legitimacy , the pa is bound to rely on its security forces and on those of the occupier , israel , to enforce its will . throughout history , of course , national liberation movements have had to marginalize their own radicals and fanatics to reach the promised land . this was true of zionism , the italian risorgimto , and most recently of catholics in northern ireland .
the commander of guantánamo task force , rear admiral harry b. harris , jr. , recently defended harsh treatment of his prisoners , claiming that “ they ’re all terrorists ; they ’re all enemy combatants . ” but the cia made mistakes before . murat kurnaz , for example , a german-born turkish man , was held at guantánamo for four years before being released last august . khaled el-masri , a german citizen of lebanese descent , appears to be another of these errors . seized by the cia in macedonia , he was taken to afghanistan , interrogated for five months before being released without charge .
the treaty calls for a new eu foreign minister - though formally denied that title , this is what everyone will call him - with strong administrative infrastructure in the european commission and the council . the rotating presidency will be replaced by the council 's elected president . a new balance will be struck between the eu and member states , and a stronger role will be given to the european parliament and national parliaments . eu citizens will be endowed with legally binding fundamental rights , and majority decisions will become the general norm . a high price had to be paid for this treaty .
we must hope that the government can answer that question . the most interesting parts of the “ future of finance ” worry how to pay is changing . cash is in decline in many countries , though the rate differs markedly from the eu to the eu . cash usage has fallen by more than 80 % in sweden in the last decade , and is now dropping 10 % per year in the uk , while barely changing in germany . van steenis warns that the “ swedish experience shows that without a coordinated plan , the pace of change risks excluding some groups in society . ”
the second reason to avoid imf intervention in europe is that lending to a potentially insolvent country has serious implications for the fund . for starters , taking the imf ’s own preferred creditor status at face value , an imf loan would entail substituting its “ non-defaultable ” debt for “ defaultable ” debt with private bondholders , because the fund ’s money is used primarily to service outstanding bonds . as a result , a group of lucky bondholders would be bailed out at the expense of those that have become junior to imf debt , and remain highly exposed to a likely restructuring . because a “ haircut ” can be imposed only on whatever is left of the defaultable private debt , the larger the imf share , the deeper the haircut needed to restore sustainability . for the same reason , imf loans can be a burdensome legacy from a market perspective .
beijing – consider this : despite china ’s swelling foreign-exchange reserves , the result of persistent current-account surpluses – the market and interbank short-term interest rates are soaring . how has this happened , and what should policymakers do about it ? the problem is at root structural . china ’s monetary reserves are relatively plentiful , at best . as the world ’s largest currency issuer , china ’s broad money supply ( m2 ) is 1.5 times larger than that of the united states , with a debt/gdp ratio of roughly 200 % , compared to roughly 80 % in the us .
while institutions like weill cornell in qatar and the gulf university of science and technology in kuwait have launched innovative research and training programs that focus on these types of health challenges , much more is needed . another problem is that the region ’s education and training programs do not stimulate enough systemic thinking . worldwide , public-health policy is moving toward more multidisciplinary integration of engineering , medicine , social and management science , and humanities . by not embracing an integrated approach , gcc institutions risk falling behind the global standard . technology and new public-health approaches are important ; but they will be ineffective unless they are tailored to meet local people ’s real needs .
more telling , of course , will be the party primary in november . given hollande ’s rock-bottom approval ratings , it is widely believed that a winning republican will be france ’s next president . and , though juppé remains far ahead in opinion polls so far , the french could reject his happy version of french identity , in favor of sarkozy ’s much darker one . i still believe that juppé is most likely to emerge as france ’s next president . in terms of age and profile , he resembles a french version of hillary clinton , more practiced in the exercise than conquest of power .
under the banner of “ simplification , ” the “ how ” gravitating toward outsourcing most of the implementation to agencies that are to be endowed , one hopes , with greater flexibility to fulfill their particular missions . this requires working smoothly and much more efficient interfaces between agencies and the european commission , which maintain overall control over them , as well as a thorough revision of financial regulation for the entire operation and its oft-criticized bureaucratic red tape . some tough political choices lie ahead : which parts of the framework program are to continue and which ends ? how can innovation , which is never just technological , but social as well , be achieved and fully used ? and , perhaps most important , what are optimal trade-offs to get eu member states and european institutions to cooperate more effectively for a common european future ?
despair and alienation have taken hold of the younger generation of arabs representing more than 50 % of the region ’s population . political repression and the silence of arab public opinion should worry america and its arab allies , not reassure them , because it means that there is no way for the public to channel its interests , demands , and frustrations peacefully . a american invasion of iraq , with large numbers of civilian casualties , would deepen the sense of victimization and defeat felt by arab youths and force them to join al qaeda ’s holy war cells . far from undermining militancy and combatting terror , a war will likely play into al qaeda ’s hands , giving it a new lease on life . indeed , militant islamists , hoping to recover from the devastating blows they have absorbed since the war on terror began , are already positioning themselves to capitalize on the coming war with iraq .
but nord stream 2 would make those troubles inevitable . a poorer ukraine would be an even easier victim of russian aggression than it is today . and the kremlin ’s hold on belarus would be even tighter should yamal close down . moreover , germans and other europeans would not be spared the consequences . by committing to buy more russian gas than is necessary , and for longer , the eu would help to finance russia ’s military build-up , which represents a direct threat to european peace .
san francisco – it seems puzzling at first : prescription drug prices in the united states continue to rise at an alarming rate , despite the threat ( or promise ) of competition from cheaper generic substitutes . but there is no mystery , either . pharmaceutical companies pay players throughout the health-care system to favor their more expensive drugs over lower-priced alternatives . and those who should be acting as watchdogs for patients are happy to go along . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
but while there are many reasons to blame foreign powers for the region ’s parlous state of affairs , blaming others – or even one another – will solve nothing . after all , the arab world has many homegrown problems , including inefficient and ineffective governance , unholy alliances , and undeveloped national capacities . catastrophe awaits any region helpless to shape its own future , in which a majority of its citizens feel disenfranchised . though the arab world is traditionally conservative , almost 70 % of its citizens are below the age of 35 , and young people suffer the highest rates of unemployment in most countries . this represents not only massive waste of resources , but also a serious long-term sociopolitical problem .
to ensure that female vaccinators remain engaged in this fight , addressing the obstacles – whether physical security , social constraints , or low pay – is essential . let us not forget that the risks these women take to protect everyone from a disease that has taken an enormous toll on global health . as a polio survivor , i simply can not fathom the possibility that , with total eradication in our sights , we might allow polio to return . since unicef began emphasizing women ’s hiring for its polio program in 2014 , the number of female vaccinators has increased dramatically . nearly 62 % of vaccinators in nigeria are women , and the number of vaccinators is women .
a large minority of citizens in the developed world inhabits filter bubbles created by these platforms – digital false realities in which existing beliefs become more rigid and extreme . in the us , roughly one-third of adults have become impervious to new ideas , including demonstrable facts . such people are easy to manipulate , a concept that former google design the “ brain hacking . ” western democracies are unprepared to cope with this threat . the us has no effective regulatory framework for internet platforms , and lacks the political will to create one .
when american troops were captured in iraq , president bush said that he expects them to be humanely treated . “ if not , ” the president warned , “ the people who mistreat prisoners would be treated as war criminals . ” president bush ’s remarks drove home the importance of strict adherence to the geneva conventions , and the question of how war crimes trials might be convened in postwar iraq and who conduct them . america ’s plan for war crimes trials covers violations committed before the current conflict began . american officials recently released a list of iraqis who would face trial for past crimes .
second , today ’s algorithms become very good at pattern recognition when they are provided with big data sets – finding objects in youtube videos or detecting credit-card fraud – but they are far less effective with unusual circumstances that do not fit the usual pattern , or simply when the data are scarce or a bit “ noisy . ” to handle such cases , you need a skilled person , with her or her experience , intuition , and social awareness . third , the latest systems can not explain what they have done or why they are recommending a particular course of action . in these “ black box boxes , ” you can not simply read a code to analyze what is happening or check if there is a hidden bias . when interpretability is important – for example , in many medical applications – you need a trained human in decision-making loop .
the country has also advanced the road to fiscal federalism : channeling all value-added tax into the federal budget ; and a regional income tax , which makes for a sensible system of distributing budget resources among tiers of authority . the second important area of progress has been reform of the russian federation : the establishment of federal districts and the reform of the federation council . these changes are controversial , but a federation whose laws are not observed by some of its constituent members can not function normally ; a federation in which observance of laws depends on the whim of local administrators simply can not exist . president putin ’s moves to strengthen an integrated system of power are thus logical and correct . as a result , russia today is a realistic , even if imperfect , federation .
for israel , this is more than a little . some of netanyahu ’s top cabinet ministers , including avigdor liberman , hawkish defense minister , and yuval steinitz , a member of the security cabinet , have been quick to express concern about the arms deal . within israel ’s right-wing party , many worry that trump is merely trying to appease israel with rhetoric , and views saudi arabia as mainstay of us interests in the region . it is possible that trump hopes that saudi arabia ’s support can help drive forward negotiations between israelis and palestinians . but , given trump ’s failure to take a real stand on any core area of disagreement – including borders , refugees , and the status of jerusalem – the idea that he is playing some well-thought-out long game on the israel-palestine conflict seems farfetched .
and weaknesses in the london housing market do not appear to have spread elsewhere . in fact , in the northwest , residential real-estate prices are showing signs of accelerating upward . if this trend persists , it would have far-reaching implications for the uk economy . strengthening housing markets in the north could do wonders to reverse the disturbing regional inequalities that have emerged in recent decades . one thing we can be absolutely certain is that the government should pursue policies to engage with the northern powerhouse , and perhaps with the “ midlands engine , ” too .
new delhi – for some time now , multinational companies ( mncs ) have been gaming the rules of the global economy to minimize their tax liability – or even eliminate it altogether . and , for some time now , the independent commission for reforming international corporate taxation ( icrict ) has argued for unitary taxation by mncs . fortunately , there have been some encouraging recent signs that the idea of unitary taxation is gaining traction . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
this includes : funds to stop aids transmission from mothers to infants ; funds to help fight infections like tuberculosis that accompany aids ; and , with good program design , even funding for anti-retroviral therapies . with specially designed , low-cost combinations of drugs and drugs provided to the poorest countries at the lowest possible cost of production , they may be able to extend arv therapies to even very poor countries at an acceptable price . the third step must be an expanded program of research and development into new , more effective approaches to disease control . the most promising answer for the long term is a vaccine to protect against the disease . recent breakthroughs in basic science give hope that a vaccine can be developed within a decade if billions of dollars of research and development funds are mobilized by both the public and private sectors .
in fact , the united nations estimates that up to seven in ten women worldwide experience physical or sexual violence – or both – during their lifetime . but violence against women can be difficult to detect . even those who are aware of it may choose to ignore it , believing that it is neither their business nor too widespread for them to make a difference , or because they are too busy to get involved . clearly , a global shift is needed in gender-related attitudes and norms . to this end , national governments have a responsibility to develop gender-sensitive policies and practices – policies that effectively discourage gender-based discrimination while preventing violence , including by punishing its perpetrators .
new mayors took office this month without the electoral commission ( cse ) , bringing public 100 % of the vote , an open violation of nicaraguan electoral law . although managua electoral fraud was the most widely documented , the same modus operandi occurred across the country affects more than 40 municipalities . despite complaints from the episcopal conference of the catholic church , chambers of commerce , and political parties , the cse refused to allow a recount of ballots or scrutiny by impartial observers . and when citizens protested peacefully , the government resorted to violence to curb them . as a result , the fsln government proclaimed itself the winner in 109 of 153 municipalities .
even if putin found a way to retain power without amending the constitution – a possibility that has been endlessly speculated about russia ’s dwindling band of democrats – the undemocratic nature of his strategy is glaringly apparent . moving from one high office in the kremlin to another in the white house ( the seat of the russian parliament ) is merely technicality . putin will be no czar whatever office formally is . what makes this work is that , like any good kgb man , putin is a master of facades . it has been said that presidential democracy only reinforces russian political culture ’s tendency to favor rulers with a “ strong hand , ” whereas a parliamentary system would allow for a more “ horizontal distribution of power . ”
morsi ’s timing was remarkable : the day after winning international acclaim for his successful efforts to broker a truce in gaza , he staged a frontal assault on egypt ’s nascent democracy . the question now is whether the brothers will prevail , both in the streets and through egypt ’s new constitution ( which they largely wrote ) . if they do , will the west withdraw its support for egyptian democracy in the name of “ stability ” ? it would be a mistake to do so . the question of what to do about iran ’s nuclear program will also return with a vengeance in january , after us president barack obama ’s second inauguration and israel ’s general election , and will demand a response in just a few months .
the implication was clear : democracy on its own was not enough . liberalism – the protection of minorities and individual civil liberties – had to be strengthened . the word “ liberalism , ” however , does not mean the same thing for all people . in many circles , it came to be used to describe unfettered capitalism and full freedom of choice in personal lifestyles . and it was the alternative meanings that initially allowed politicians like orbán and turkish leader recep tayyip erdoğan to make the case for another form of majoritarian democracy .
despite talk of a “ green economy ” and calling for a europe-wide investment program , macron ’s agenda is broadly neoliberal . in essence , macron is hoping that his agenda , if implemented at the eu level , will lift not just the french economy , but all european boats . in fact , the likelihood is that such reforms will sink all boats , giving populists their chance . in that case , which variety of populist parties will seize the opportunity ? the economist dani rodrik puts the appeal of populism into focus .
the first shock was intensified by globalization , which brought many new low-wage competition . although globalization is a gradual process , it gained momentum when china decided to play the game . china is ten times japan ’s size , and japan was not easy to deal with either . german precision instruments and optical equipment , for example , lost their competitive edge when japan entered the game . the second shock was eu integration , including northern and southern enlargement .
america ’s worsening fiscal position is leading to a strong dollar , just as america ’s worsening fiscal position after reagan ’s irresponsible tax cut two decades ago did . while countries may pride themselves on a strong currency , a strong dollar is bad for exports and good for imports . in a dynamic economy , if jobs are lost in one sector , new jobs are being created in another . government ’s role is to facilitate labor movement from one to the other . it is government ’s primary responsibility to maintain full employment .
to be sure , consensus , compromise , and pooling sovereignty are the only ways to resolve many of the great issues – climate change , nuclear proliferation – that bedevil our world . but on the great issues of war , peace , and the balance of power , europe seems trapped between an insufficiently cohesive foreign policy and uncertainty among individual countries about how to define and secure their national interests . by contrast , the world ’s rising powers – brazil , china , india , and russia – insist not only on primacy in their national interests , but , as the failed climate negotiations in copenhagen last december demonstrated , on sovereign freedom of action as well . to them , geopolitics is not anathema ; it is at the heart of all their external actions . defending their national interest still rallies their publics ; exercising power remains at the heart of their diplomatic calculations .
the pro-milosevic candidate , tomislav nikolic , lost but received 46 % of the vote . despite his campaign promises , serbia ’s president boris tadic has so far failed to cooperate with the icty by assisting in turning over mladic ( karadzic is probably not in serbia ) who would surely attest to milosevic . one understands his trepidation : the first post-milosevic prime minister , zoran djindjic , cooperated with the tribunal and paid for it with his life . such foot-dragging exposes the icty ’s fundamental weakness : unlike the nuremberg tribunal , the international community convened it during , not after , war . without full control of either the evidence or the accused , the icty lacked from the outset of the legitimacy and authority of “ victors ’ justice . ”
for starters , the global financial meltdown and subsequent recession laid bare the consequences of free-market fundamentalism , undercutting popular and ideological support for the neoliberal view that markets are best at shaping societal outcomes . moreover , china – the embodiment of the go-for-growth movement – signaled a policy shift toward the pursuit of better social and environmental outcomes alongside more moderate gdp gains . to be sure , this is largely a case of virtue , arising from necessity ; as export-driven growth has slowed , the risk of social unrest over issues like air pollution , food toxicity , and corruption has risen . but the new approach is also rooted in the recognition that china ’s continued development depends on a healthy balance between ecology and economy . this shift is linked to a third , broader development : the world ’s growing understanding of where the planet is headed environmentally , especially with regard to climate change .
johannesburg – more than two decades ago , my country liberalized abortion , but on january 23 , 2017 , us president donald trump essentially took away my right even to write the word . as south africa ’s doctor , i have provided abortion services for more than a decade . as part of my work , i often edit educational materials for an ngo working on hiv prevention . for young south african women , these texts offer life-saving information on issues related to sexual and reproductive health – including birth control , sexual violence , and our country ’s progressive abortion law . but , two days after the american presidential election in november 2016 – and more than two months before trump ’s inauguration – the ngo i was working for halted the distribution of reproductive-health guide , because it contained information on south africa ’s constitutionally guaranteed right to abortion .
the us election campaign will heat up at a time when the us faces a daunting set of problems . how should it approach china ’s creation of not just facts on the ground , but the ground itself , in the south china sea ? will russia ’s annexation of crimea stand forever ? indeed , how can america react firmly to russian aggression without forsaking the long-term project of bringing it closer to the west ? is there an alternative to sending ground troops back to the middle east ?
the world can not and will not wilt in the face of such extremism wherever it exists , whether in the sahel , nigeria , iraq , or syria . today , the international coalition fighting isis has grown to more than 60 active members . since september , the us has retaken 700 square kilometers of territory . the us has deprived the us of the use group – and the resulting revenues – of 200 oil and gas facilities . the us has undermined its command structure , undermined its propaganda , pulled out half of its senior leadership , squeezed its funding , damaged its supply networks , and dispersed its personnel .
when the berlin wall fell in 1989 , hammers and bulldozers , not artillery , brought it down . unfortunately , bush did not learn this lesson . academic and scientific exchanges during the cold war played a significant role in enhancing american soft power . while some american skeptics feared that soviet scientists and kgb agents would steal american technology , they failed to notice that visitors vacuumed political ideas alongside scientific secrets . many of these scientists became prominent proponents of human rights and liberalization within the ussr .
forty years ago , japan represented the “ asian west . ” today , the emergence of chinese-style modernity is mentally destabilizing japan . after all , if china is america ’s principal economic partner in asia , and if india is america ’s main diplomatic partner , what is left to japan ? its aging population watches resignedly as the new , younger asia , becomes as important to the us as europe was during the cold war . george w bush ’s approach was to view india as “ anti-china , ” thereby rebalancing the world ’s “ largest democracy ” against the world ’s “ oldest civilization . ”
new york – the global recession now underway is the result not only of a financial panic , but also of more fundamental uncertainty about the future direction of the global economy . consumers are pulling back from home and automobile purchases not only because they have suffered a blow to their wealth with falling stock prices and housing values , but also because they are not sure where to turn . should they risk buying a new car when gasoline prices might soar again ? will they be able to put food on the table after this year ’s terrifying rise in food prices ? decisions about business investment are even starker .
no trace of polish authority remained . the total destruction of the polish state and its institutions made poland the ideal location for german extermination camps , in which six million polish citizens – three million jews and three million ethnic poles – were murdered . everywhere else in german-controlled europe , the nazis had to deal , sometimes in an extraordinarily complicated manner , with local governments , if only for tactical reasons . this is why poland is right to insist that camps not be called “ polish extermination camps ” ( as even us president barack obama once mistakenly referred to ) . they were german camps in occupied poland .
major suppliers to the world ’s telecoms companies are found in china , where huawei is now head to head with sweden ’s ericsson . in 2008 , huawei registered more patents than any other company in the world , finished second to japan ’s panasonic in 2009 . in the telecoms sector , a half-dozen emerging-market multinationals are now in the global top ten . brazil ’s embraer revolutionized airplane manufacturing with a business model that others imitated . india ’s tata sells cars for 75 % less than its european competitors .
even the american government , with debt duration of about four years , would be unlikely to benefit much from inflation surprises unless it were enormous . meanwhile , the bulk of its obligations are social security and health care , which can not be inflated away . even for distressed households that borrowed long term , the effects of higher inflation are uncertain . what would help is if their nominal disposable income rose relative to their ( fixed ) debt-service ratio . yet , with high levels of unemployment likely to keep nominal wage growth relatively subdued , typical troubled households could be worse off – with higher food and fuel prices cutting into disposable income .
though china ’s leadership will hope , it is not the lack of the drama of 2009 that chinese president xi jinping will undoubtedly make the impression of his own . if he fails to miss the opportunity to advance the asia-pacific trade agreement ’s goal while hosting last year ’s asia-pacific economic cooperation summit , he certainly will not pass the chance to ensure that the g20 agenda serves china ’s interests . of course , with turkey ’s term at the helm of the g-20 barely beginning , xi probably has not yet settled on specific priorities . but some potential areas of concern are already apparent . elements of the current g-20 agenda align well with china ’s domestic economic concerns , particularly with regard to infrastructure .
new york – after the french revolution of 1789 , deputies in the national assembly who supported the revolutionary gains sat on the left , while those who opposed them and hankered after the old order of monarchy and church congregated on the right . thus , the political terms “ left ” and “ right . ” many commentators on the french presidential election have pointed out that these categories no longer fit contemporary politics in france – or , indeed , anywhere else . emmanuel macron prides himself on being neither the right nor the left . marine le pen , whose national front is linked to the far right , disagrees : to her , macron , who was a minister in the socialist government , is a leftist .
as a result , it will likely be a long time before we can assess the success of whatever law the american congress ultimately enacts . but the verdict criteria are clear : the new law must curb practices that jeopardized the entire global economy , and reorient the financial system toward its proper tasks – managing risk , allocating capital , providing credit ( especially small – and medium-size enterprises ) , and operating an efficient payments system . we should toast the likely successes : some form of the financial-product safety commission will be established ; more derivative trading will move to exchanges and clearing homes from the shadows of murky “ bespoke ” markets ; and some of the worst mortgage practices will be restricted . moreover , it looks likely that outrageous fees charged for every debit transaction – a kind of tax that goes beyond any public purpose but to fill banks ’ coffers – will be curtailed . but the likely failures are equally noteworthy : too-big-to-fail banks ’ problem is now worse than it was before the crisis .
to be sure , most french and german citizens identify as europeans , as opposed to uk citizens who identify as british – or even english , irish , scottish , or welsh . this is why german and french critiques of the eu generally focus on the bloc ’s performance , whereas the british often strike at the european project itself . but when it comes to security and defense , these affinities are reversed : france and britain are very likeminded , while germany , owing to its history , has long shied away from martial pursuits of any kind . to be sure , there are many differences between britain and france with respect to how they engage with the united states and nato . the uk is naturally closer to nato than france is .
although the new tax law is commonly described as a fiscal stimulus , it is more accurate to say that it avoids a large immediate fiscal contraction . the long-term implications of the agreement stand in sharp contrast to both obama ’s february 2010 budget proposal and the republican counterpart ’s proposal . obama wanted to continue the 2010 tax rate permanently for all taxpayers except those with annual incomes above $ 250,000 . the republicans proposed continuing the 2010 tax rate permanently for all taxpayers . by agreeing to limit the current tax rate for just two years , the tax package reduces the projected national debt at the end of the decade ( relative to what it would have been with obama ’s budget ) by some $ 2 trillion , or nearly 10 % of gdp , in 2020 .
spending on automobiles ground to a halt until government stimulus programs in many countries revived it . but schemes like public subsidies to scrapping old and fuel-inefficient cars simply led many to reschedule their purchases . the automobile market was rescued in 2009 at the expense of sales in 2010 and subsequent years . the crisis also exposed the extent of america ’s massive over-capacity in the retail market , with estimates that at least one-fifth of american shopping malls would be forced to close . the response to the crisis will be hastening the movement toward on-line purchases , in which physical location is no longer a preeminent component of shopping decisions .
indeed , confucianism became the chinese state ’s official ideology two centuries before christ was born . confucianism was essentially a philosophical justification of government by benevolent bureaucracy under a virtuous ruler . virtue ensured harmony between man and nature , as well as obedience within a stratified society . as one confucian classic put it : possessing virtue gives the ruler the people . possessing the people gives him territory .
a damascene conversion is not only possible , but also vitally important for regional peace . the most realistic scenario is now a three-front war pitting israel against syria , hamas , and hezbollah . but a syrian-israeli peace would drive a wedge between syria and iran , thereby cutting off hezbollah ’s arms-control lines while enabling lebanon ’s vital task to succeed . the only way to extricate syria from a fatal iranian embrace is to draw it into a regional peace scheme . alas , precisely because of their isolation and the ba’athist regime ’s “ miliac ” nature , syrians are unlikely to meet the american condition for peace talks : abandoning their current rogue alliances and their marriage with terror .
for much of thailand ’s long economic boom of the last two decades , wealth resided mostly in bangkok ’s metropolitan region , a boon to the burgeoning urban middle class , but deeply resented the rural majority . while rural populations had more than enough to eat , their economic opportunities and upward mobility were constrained by a shoddy education system and docile state-run media that fed them soap operas and official messages . for no one to become someone , all roads led to bangkok and its prestigious prep schools and universities . thailand ’s farms became increasingly alienated from the urban elite . thaksin recognized this urban-rural divide , shrewdly exploited it , upending the elite consensus that had long prevailed .
some of the roughly 150 pro-rebellion alawites who attended the conference traveled from their homes in syria ; others were expatriates , including activists and religious leaders who were forced to flee syria for supporting the revolution . delegates – joined by several sunni opposition members – denounced assad and declared their unwavering support for a united , democratic country that would offer full citizenship to all syrians , regardless of sect or ethnic backgrounds . “ depriving the sectarian card regime is crucial to its ouster , ” the conference ’s organizing committee noted . if alawites and sunnis living abroad can stand united against the assad regime , so that their counterparts inside syria can . by setting an example of coexistence , they can mitigate alawites ’ fears in syria that deserting assad would facilitate the rise of an anti-alawite sunni regime .
china announced its plans for the aiib shortly after signing the ndb articles of agreement in 2014 . in the case of the ndb , each of the brics owns an equal share , contributing $ 10 billion to initial subscribed capital . though equitable shareholding was not china ’s preferred route , it did not force the matter . by contrast , china is the aiib ’s largest shareholder by a wide margin , holding a 26.6 % stake , compared to india ’s 7.7 % and russia ’s 6 % . brazil and south africa , meanwhile , have made no capital contributions to date , despite being designated as “ founding members . ”
well , in both cases , the us should have said no : while aid is transparent , the symbolism of a rich country taking money from a poor neighbor with millions of suffering hardly makes it attractive . and it is particularly bizarre that even as us policy toward mexico has greatly increased the chances of an anti-american chávez-type character becoming president , officials are providing positive publicity to a government that is a caricature of disastrous governance . trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , has taken a principled stand in america ’s dealings with venezuela , imposing sanctions to rein in rogue behavior , a policy that has attracted broad bipartisan support . the trump administration needs to stay the course , especially as lower oil prices have weakened the venezuelan government ’s hand . instead of bashing latin america , the us needs to show that it can be a steady and principled friend that will not be swayed by corrupt bribes of any type .
a similar solution should be found for the european constitution . europe can not preach cultural pluralism and practice constitutional imperialism . indeed , the political imperative is as great as constitutional . europe , after all , is committed to democracy worldwide . but in europe 's way of thinking , it must spread pacifically to democracy , through persuasion rather than force of arms .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . as physicians with special training in forensic evaluations , the us traveled to tijuana to meet juan , at a request from his lawyer .
trump appreciates what india has already done , but is urging it to do even more , using its vast earnings from exports to the us to help rebuild afghanistan ’s economy . he has also suggested that the us will work with india to create an indo-pacific security zone . in any case , the potential for us-india security cooperation in the region seems to have been suggested , while only hinted at trump ’s speech , the two governments have already discussed . the implications of trump ’s speech extend beyond america ’s policy in afghanistan . the address also sharpened the contours – already limned during his may visit to saudi arabia , and his july visit to poland – of what might be called the trump doctrine .
it organized the postwar international order : the united nations , the bretton woods institutions , the marshall plan , reconstruction of japan , and more . under that order , the rest of the world closed much of the vast technological , educational , and infrastructural gap with the us . as economists put it , global growth was “ convergent , ” meaning that poorer countries were catching up . the share of the world economy represented by the us declined by roughly half ( to around 16 % currently ) . china now has a larger economy in absolute terms than the us , though still only around one-fourth in per capita terms .
a focus on corporate social responsibility could help to ensure shared industrialization ’s benefits , while energy – and resource-efficiency requirements – could help to safeguard sustainability . and , as the sdgs recognize , resilient infrastructure and incentives for innovation are also crucial . achieving this goal , of course , will be expensive , costing an estimated $ 3.3-4.5 trillion a year . given budget pressure in many donor countries , official development assistance is on the decline , and can not be relied upon to fill this need . indeed , as a report by the international committee of experts on sustainable development finance points out , the spectrum of financing for future international development frameworks must be broader than ever .
for example , if high oil prices were the result of taxes that were then redistributed to oil users , they would be unambiguously good . to be sure , most taxes entail heavy “ excess burdens ” : the cost is significantly greater than the value of the revenues raised because of potential taxpayers ’ myriad attempts at evasion and avoidance . a tax on oil , however , does not impose excess burdens . on the contrary , it implies excess benefits . shifts to more energy-efficient means of transportation ease congestion .
so-called “ functional ” foods – or “ techno-foods ” – are those to which manufacturers add omega-3 oils , artificial sweeteners , indigestible starches , cholesterol reducers , soy , or milk ( whey ) proteins , phytochemicals , and other ingredients to enable them to take advantage of “ qualified ” health claims that are permitted by the food and drug administration ( fda ) . sales of lesser-evil and functional foods have done well in recent years , bringing in about $ 85 billion in us sales in 2004 . if you routinely buy such foods , you are among lohas ( health lifestyles and sustainability ) consumers – the food-industry ’s cherished demographic base . you buy low-carbohydrate products , energy , and nutrition bars , vitamin a – and mineral-fortified foods and beverages , soy foods , and practically anything with health claims . like many people , i thought that small , innovative companies dominated functional foods .
unity is meant to be the foundation of prosperity . the common market was defended at the start in terms of the gains that would follow from increased trade . the case for capital-market integration , and then for the single currency , was similar . all of this recalls some powerful arguments made in the nineteenth century about national integration and unification . in particular , the two countries whose problems drove much of the need for twentieth-century european integration – germany and italy – were culturally and politically highly diverse .
in sib , government contracts with an outside provider to achieve measurable social goals ( like reducing recidivism among juvenile offenders ) , private impact investors finance the program ’s upfront costs , and the government promises a return to them if the program ’s targets are achieved . more recently , the obama administration has proposed a $ 300 million fund to catalyze federal pay-for-performance contracts . several existing federal programs , such as the community reinvestment act and the small business investment corporation , are supporting the growth of impact investing funds . according to a recent study , the impact investing in the us would not exist without the federal government ’s support and partnerships through grants , loans , and guarantees . metrics are an essential feature of pay-for-performance contracts , and they must be an essential feature of all government programs .
their presence indicates that behind the parade ’s martial rhetoric and symbolism , a broader and more complex narrative of china ’s wartime experience is emerging . china is keen to emphasize its role as one of its key allies in the struggle against fascism and imperialism in wwii , and increasingly regards western ignorance of its wartime role as unacceptable . but ignorance in the west of china ’s wartime sacrifices – 14 million dead – and its major contribution in holding down more than a half-million japanese troops also reflects the partisan history of the war that has been taught in china itself . under mao ’s rule , the only acceptable narrative was that the ccp led the opposition against japan . foreign assistance – including the major american role in wartime china – had no place in this narrative .
but are these newfound wealth effects really all ? yes , the us stock market is now at all-time high – but only in current dollars . in real terms , the s & p 500 is still 20 % below its january 2000 peak . similarly , while the case-shiller index of american home prices is now up 10.2 % year on year ending march 2013 , it remains 28 % below its 2006 peak . wealth creation matters , but not until it recoups the wealth destruction that preceded it .
the left is deeply divided on virtually all issues – europe , secularism , education , business , and more – making it extremely difficult to identify what exactly constitutes “ leftist ” policies nowadays . in fact , the socialists have begun to distinguish themselves not by what they are , but by what they are not , touting the line , “ neither macron nor mélenchon ” ( a reference to the far-left jean-luc mélenchon ) . yet that distinction may not be as powerful as the socialists may believe . after all , it was their center-left voters who got macron elected . and they knew what they voted for : every policy he implemented thus far was included in his campaign platform .
there is even less risk in saudi arabia itself , where king abdullah recently pledged more than $ 130 billion in stimulus spending . the few saudi demonstrations appear almost entirely populated by minority shia , who find little sympathy among the majority sunnis , and by foreign construction workers petitioning for higher wages and improved working conditions . syria ’s president bashar al-assad has more domestic support than recent media accounts for unrest in the country ’s south suggest . nor does iran ’s government appear to face real dangers . the brutal post-election crackdown in 2009 demonstrated the regime ’s determination to maintain order by whatever means necessary .
mexico city – four central american countries – guatemala , el salvador , honduras , and nicaragua – are struggling , still burdened by the legacy of the last century ’s wars . they are resilient yet incomplete democracies , challenged by poverty , violence , and corruption – all but forgotten by the international community . but there is now reason to hope that these countries ’ prospects could improve . nicaragua , it should be noted , is not quite in the same category as central america ’s other three . like them , it has suffered through a brutal and protracted civil war ; unlike them , successive governments , however , have built institutions capable of supporting reasonable levels of territorial control and domestic security .
ten governments in the region already have debt-to-gdp ratios above 75 % . as growth has slowed , public expenditures have declined , fueling economic insecurity . even where fiscal adjustment has barely begun , the old rent-seeking model has become unaffordable , with the population turning against regimes that seem unable or unwilling to make a convincing reformist effort . moreover , new popular movements in algeria , sudan , lebanon , and iraq have absorbed important lessons from the 2011 uprisings . no longer content with merely displacing aging autocrats , protesters are also targeting key elements of the deep state and security forces .
us president donald trump ’s administration , however , is throwing this carefully calibrated system into disarray . far from displaying a capacity to persuade , as the title of his book the art of the deal might imply , trump is attempting to use raw power alone to force his “ america first ” agenda on the rest of the world . there are ample examples of trump ’s predilection for power . it is reflected in his pressure on european countries not only to spend more on defense to fulfill their nato obligations – valid demand – but also to continue to channel the spending toward us-made weapons systems . it is also evident in his bellicose threats against america ’s supposed enemies .
a comprehensive assessment of a country ’s macro investment risk requires looking systematically at stocks and national account flows to capture all dangers , including risk in the financial system and the real economy , as well as broader risk issues . as we have seen in recent crises , private risk taking and debt are socialized when a crisis occurs . so , even when public deficits and debt are low before a crisis , they can rise sharply after one erupts . governments that looked fiscally sound suddenly seem insolvent . using 200 quantitative variables and factors to score 174 countries on a quarterly basis , we identified a number of countries where investors are missing the risks – and opportunities .
abedi ’s barbaric act , by contrast , killed at least 22 people , many of them children . in recent years , i have been heavily involved in the policy aspects of this great city ’s economic revival . i chaired an economic advisory group to the greater manchester council , and then served as chair of the growth commission , which advocated for the “ northern powerhouse , ” a program to link the british north ’s cities into a cohesive economic unit . i subsequently briefly joined david cameron ’s government , helping to implement the early stages of the northern powerhouse . i never attended a concert at the manchester arena , but it seems to be a great venue for the city .
nile delta – some 60 kilometers north of cairo ’s tahrir square – the epicenter of the 2011 egyptian uprising – there is a secondary school student called “ the prison . ” a deformed box of concrete packed with dilapidated classrooms , a school pockmarked with age and neglect . one teacher in the sleepy nile delta village village village of soaking idly quips that it doubles as a morgue . “ we never saw a revolution here , ” he said a few months ago , withholding his name for fear of losing his job . “ a lot of hope we now have been dead … . ”
yet the ten-year fiscal plan , approved by the 2017-2026 board , inevitably will form the basis of debt-restructuring discussions – seems to ignore this circularity . the plan itself recognizes that its adoption implies another “ lost decade ” of economic activity , and will weaken the island ’s debt sustainability , thereby perpetuating a crisis that all parties would like to end . unfortunately , the board ’s already-deep projected fall in real gnp is highly optimistic , because it relies on a number of implausible and/or controversial assumptions . the five flaws in the board ’s fiscal plan stand out . first , projected fiscal multipliers – the amount by which gnp will fall as a result of each dollar of fiscal contraction – used for gnp forecasts assume that a contraction of one dollar in primary fiscal deficits will be associated with a $ 1.34 contraction of gnp .
such control harms the evolution of open societies . removing this constraint might endanger the bank ’s triple rating , but make it more effective . i propose that open societies in the world form a dual alliance : fostering both the development of open societies in individual countries and the evolution of a global open society . the first involves development assistance ; the second , strengthening international institutions such as the international central bank and the world development agency . such alliances require cooperation not only of governments , but also of civil society .
accra – planned parenthood , a vital source of sexual and reproductive health services in the united states , has just been forced to withdraw from the federal title x family-planning program , which supports low-income women . the decision – a response to a new rule by us president donald trump ’s administration forbidding title x clinics from referring patients to abortion – will cost planned parenthood some $ 60 million annually . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
yet post-conflict employment policies almost invariably neglect so-called “ horizontal inequalities . ” for example , employment policies have done little to reduce strong regional imbalances and discrimination within regions that persisted in bosnia and herzegovina after the war there in the 1990s . given these failings , it is not surprising that employment policies ’ net effects are often very small relative to the size of the problem . in both kosovo and bosnia and herzegovina , job creation was thought central to post-conflict peacekeeping efforts . yet , in kosovo , unemployment stood at 45 % six years after its war ended .
we will strengthen assistance for developing countries , leading the world toward further prosperity . prosperity is the very foundation of peace , and it is not the only one that is needed to achieve this . japan will make even greater efforts to combat poverty , which also serves as a hotbed of violence , and to provide opportunities for medical services , education , and self-reliance to all of the world ’s people . we will engrave in our hearts the past , when japan ended up becoming the challenger to the international order . upon this reflection , japan will firmly uphold basic values such as freedom , democracy , and human rights as unyielding values , and , by working hand with countries that share such values , hoist the flag of “ proactive contributions to peace , ” and contribute to the world ’s peace and prosperity more than ever before .
in saudi arabia , the shia are at the forefront of those welcoming democratic change and participation . although they constitute only 20 % of saudi population , they comprise a majority of -75 % – of the population in the oil-rich region . saudi arabia ’s shia have suffered discrimination in professions : in the military , high government positions , the diplomatic corps , and most significantly in the oil sector , where they have been excluded since the 1980 ’s . this systematic neutering of shia in saudi arabia legitimates the wahhabi religious establishment , and has been denouncing them as heretics . in bahrain , the shia , who comprise 75 % of the population , have been keen on the reforms initiated by king hamad al-khalifah .
by pooling resources , the fund created economies of scale for life-saving products such as anti-malarial bed nets and antiretroviral drugs . then , by working with almost 100 countries , the fund built a massive supply chain to deliver goods . in the process , aids deaths have fallen by 50 % since the turn of the millennium . now , the fund has $ 14 billion in new funding to continue this work . replenishment is vitally important news , first and foremost because of the sheer number of lives it will help to save .
the higher the education , the lower voter participation seems to be : among those who never vote , the percent of those with a college degree is twice as high as that of those without a higher education . alienated for so long , the country ’s brightest have washed their hands in politics . this is a sort of political depression , and it is only possible to cure the depression . depression can be cured , but only by giving the patient a positive vision of the future . right-centrist parties – the union of the right forces and yabloko – have such a vision , and people know it .
but broad international support will not be forthcoming unless military operations are perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism . this last point has been at the heart of the problems in iraq . augmenting us and british troops with other “ western ” powers would not , particularly at this end stage , change the fundamental perception that intervention , both in the arab world and beyond . only explicit , up-front approval of a reformed un security council can provide the legitimacy and international support that military action – except clear self-defense – requires . this is true for actions contemplated by individual nations , temporary alliances , or more permanent alliances , such as nato .
second , we measured the effects of natural selection by noting that women who were shorter and first gave birth when younger children had more children . but genes are only one of many factors that influence height and age at first birth . personal decisions , nutrition , income levels , education , and religious affiliation all enter the mix . when we estimated how much variation among individuals could be attributed to biology , the answer was less than 5 % . that left 95 % of variation to account for the effects of culture and individual choices .
sofia – at a time when europe ’s ongoing debt crisis is fracturing public faith in the continent ’s political and economic institutions , one would expect european leaders to step up as many unifying symbols as they can . instead , they have allowed one of post-world war ii jewels of european integration – the european court of human rights ( echr ) – to come under threat just as well . unlike the brussels-based european union , long beleaguered by its democratic deficit , strasbourg-based echr is , if anything , too well loved . in 2011 , more than 60,000 people sought help – far more than can expect reasoned decision-making . ( by contrast , the united states supreme court receives roughly 10,000 petitions annually . )
in a world of competing demands , corrupt governments may seem to serve vital purposes . one deploys soldiers to fight terrorism ; another provides critical energy supplies or access to raw materials . leaders must inevitably contend with difficult tradeoffs . to identify the best approach in each particular case , governments must analyze the problem more effectively , which means improving intelligence collection and data collection . as security expert sarah chayes argues in the fight against corruption , the volume of essays that the british government will publish to accompany the summit , corruption today is structured practice .
voluntarily or not , some may seek recourse to inflation or administrative measures aimed at trapping domestic saving into financing the state and keeping bond rates low ( what economists call financial repression ) – or , eventually , outright debt restructuring . all three unorthodox remedies have been used in past debt crises . they can be considered alternative forms of taxation , albeit implicit rather than explicit . ultimately , they are different methods of forcing current and future generations to shoulder the burden of accumulated debt . is it preferable to adjust fully ?
but one must be cautious about visions . sometimes leaders think that vision can solve most of their problems , but the wrong vision – or an overly ambitious vision – can do harm . george h.w. bush was faulted ( and faulted himself ) for not having what he called “ vision thing . ” when pressed by his staff to speak more boldly and expansively , he replied , “ it is just not me . ” after the shock of the september 2001 terrorist attacks , his son , george w. bush , developed a far more ambitious vision .
and the private sector has come around to viewing renewable energies as potentially profitable business . in the us , wind power costs have fallen by two-thirds since 2009 , and the cost of the us economy ’s “ total ” solar energy has declined by 85 % . moreover , according to a recent american energy report , the number of jobs in wind and solar industries has increased by 32 % and 25 % , respectively , in 2016 alone . trump ’s policy priorities will inevitably clash with those of states like california , which has been taking the initiative to encourage climate-minded technological innovation . and , fortunately for the planet , other global powers are not joining trump in backing away from their climate commitments .
moreover , if conditions in the eurozone continue to deteriorate , asia could be more severely affected . already , spillover effects from trade and financial-transmission channels are beginning to take their toll : china ’s gdp growth rate in the second quarter of 2012 averaged 7.6 % , reflecting a significant slowdown , with india ’s growth rate expected to decline to roughly 6 % this year . china ’s potentially strong domestic-demand base and ample room for policy maneuvers can help it avoid a hard landing . it has already loosened monetary policy aggressively , and can employ additional fiscal stimulus . but policy mismanagement and structural weaknesses in the financial sector and local governments could undermine efforts to safeguard growth .
using historical data compiled by the economic historian angus maddison , they show how other east asian countries experienced a deceleration of economic growth after their per capita gdp reached around $ 11,000 in purchasing-power-parity terms relative to the constant 1990 ’s , or $ 17,000 in constant 2005 american dollar prices . for example , in the five years since japan reached that level , its economy grew at an average annual rate of 3.6 % . in south korea , growth has fallen to 4.8 % . in hong kong , it has slowed to 5.8 % . given that china is projected to cross the same threshold sometime this year , many believe that its average annual growth over the next five years will fall well below 7 % .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . pompeo ’s primary line of attack against obama ’s famous cairo speech , “ a new beginning , ” is that it included public admission of the united states ’ past missteps in the region . unlike the trump administration , obama and his advisers believed that there is much to be gained by acknowledging difficult political truths , even when doing so points to a radical change of course .
some of the best people serving the ecb – or who have served in the past – are from small countries . preventing small countries – as with other big ones – from competing for specific vacant seats reduces the executive board ’s potential competency . giving big countries permanent seats on the ecb ’s executive board also makes it easier for their politicians to control the ecb through appointments . it is far more difficult to appoint a political puppet to the governing council in an open competition system than under the current scheme . the last thing the ecb needs is the political crony of german chancellor gerhard schroeder , assuming that mr. issing ’s key post is a political crony .
but labor costs have increased much faster in the south , resulting in differential cost increases that can not be addressed by devaluation as long as the monetary union endures . as long as this internal divergence persists , the euro crisis can not be fully resolved , because current-account deficits and/or slow growth will continue to stalk southern european countries , perpetuating fears about sovereign debt and commercial banks . in this context , productivity growth , whether through technical progress , better resource allocation , or productive investment – is as important a variable for southern economies as wage restraint . indeed , excessive wage deflation is likely to have negative effects on productivity . skilled labor is likely to emigrate faster , and extreme austerity , falling prices , and high unemployment – and the resulting likelihood of social tension – are not exactly conducive to investment , innovation , or labor mobility .
that does not mean , of course , that no identity is claimed . former prime minister john major called the uk “ the country of long shadows on cricket grounds , warm beer , invincible green suburbs , dog lovers , and pools of state and , as george orwell put it , ‘ old maids ’ to holy communion through the morning fog ’ … . ” but what he was really describing was england . indeed , key elements of modern british identity all seem to belong to england , rather than to a composite entity . likewise , the established or state church of england is created almost 500 years ago , when king henry viii decided that the catholic pope should not adjudicate his marriage . an institution called the english heritage curates the past , from the prehistoric monuments of stonehenge to the old country ’s homes , which celebrated in television costume dramas .
both abe and obama are focused on creating a durable structure of peace for all of asia , and abe has been eager for japan to play a more active role in this regard , and in supporting its allies . that stance is making the alliance much more equal than it has for the past six decades . in america ’s view , the reinterpretation of article 9 of japan ’s “ peace constitution ” that abe committed – thereby allowing japan ’s self-defense forces to aid allies under attack and helping the us and other allies to fulfill their commitments to securing asia ’s peace – has long been overdue . that bold policy initiative – in the face of a deeply ingrained skepticism toward any heightened exposure to military risks – has no doubt endeared abe to american diplomats and military strategists , as well as securing both open and sometimes tacit approval from japan ’s asian neighbors . increased military cooperation with the us is particularly important now , given american worries about many of its other strategic partners ’ readiness .
iran is at a pivotal moment in its history – and , as the long lines of citizens eager to cast their votes have made clear , iranians know it . indeed , despite the iranian regime ’s lack of transparency , khamenei ’s health problems are public knowledge . khamenei himself recently acknowledged that the probability that his successor should be named in the near future was “ not low . ” the matter of who occupies the presidency during that transition is certainly irrelevant . with khamenei having served as president before rising to iran ’s supreme political and religious leadership position , it is easy to see that the conservative candidate raisi , an elected candidate , could become khamenei ’s successor .
furthermore , north korea ’s development of nuclear weapons , its economic fragility , and uncertainty about its very future as a nation are generating deep anxiety among its neighbors . yet , despite all of these obstacles , there are signs that momentum is building for greater regional cooperation in overcoming them . the recent trilateral summit of china , south korea , and japan is the fourth such meeting to take place , in addition to meetings that take place at international gatherings like asean summits . unfortunately , however , the leaders of china , south korea , and japan have not yet made any major breakthrough on the most sensitive security issues that divide them . but this lack of quick success does not mean that these efforts are futile .
and , of course , hard-pressed middle-class american consumers benefit immensely from low-cost chinese imports – walmart ’s effect – that enables them to stretch their budgets in an era of unrelenting pressure on jobs and real incomes . for more than 20 years , this mutually beneficial codependency has served both countries well in compensating for their inherent saving imbalances , while satisfying their respective growth agendas . but here the past should not be viewed as prologue . a seismic shift is at hand , with america ’s recent fiscal follies potentially well tipping points . china has made conscious strategic choices to alter its growth strategy .
ten-year treasury bonds now yield just 2.5 % , and the us federal funds rate is now on the ten-year treasury bond to yield . with the current inflation rate above 2 % and markets anticipating a similar inflation rate over the longer term ( as measured by five-year five-year-forward inflation expectations ) , ten-year treasury yields on ten-year treasury bonds should be above 4 % . a rise in ten-year yields to 4 % would reduce the value of those bonds substantially . other long-term bonds – both government bonds and corporate bonds – would suffer a similar declines . reaching the yield level has also narrowed credit spreads between higher-grade bonds and riskier domestic and emerging-market bonds .
without this confidence , credit will not flow , and economic activity will be constrained . moreover , because financial institutions ’ assets were bought mainly with borrowed money , credit shortages are exacerbated by their need to deleverage . because raising capital is difficult and expensive , they deleverage by lending less . but the macroeconomic weakness in the us now goes beyond the decreased supply of credit . falling house prices reduce household wealth , and therefore consumer spending . falling employment lowers wages and wages .
allowing america to sell its risky financial products and engage in speculation all over the world may have served its firms well , even if they impose large costs on others . today , the risk is that new keynesian doctrines will be used and abused to serve some of the same interests . have those who pushed deregulation ten years ago learned their lesson ? or will they simply push for cosmetic reforms – the minimum required to justify the $ mega-trillion of dollar bailouts ? has heart change been changed , or only strategy change ?
this growth has been fueled by a variety of factors . wage restraint and productivity gains have improved competitiveness , thereby boosting exports . and now that lower oil prices and a five-percentage-point drop in unemployment are bolstering consumption , recovery is broadening to other sectors . in short , the credibility that ireland has gained through resolute fiscal policies and reforms has helped to restore confidence , facilitate a return to growth , and thus fiscal consolidation . of course , the precise policy approach taken in one country can not be imitated elsewhere .
the third component is the exercise of suasion on bondholders to achieve maximum participation , obtain binding pre-commitments , and eliminate free riders . because such a scheme would imply losses for bondholders , substantial official muscle and peer pressure is needed . but , gaining time for a more orderly resolution , mitigating contagion , and reducing the size of the eventual write-down actually add to the superior outcome . thus , under this model – and , despite initial pressure , bondholders ’ behavior could be considered truly voluntary . and , while rating agencies might still regard vienna-type outcomes as a default , talmudic sages show us why a more thoughtful classification is required .
in some sense , a market economy is gift-exchange system ; money merely tracks the value of gifts that we give one another . as a result , a market economy encourages specialization : we become very good at a narrow set of skills or products , and exchange them for millions of other things that we have no clue about how to do or make . as a result , we end up doing remarkably few things and buying everything else from others . this observation is as true of an individual as it is about the eu , whether the eu is a neighborhood , a city , a state or province , or a country . every city has grocery stores , beauty parlors , gas stations , and movie theaters that serve the local community .
another consortium began to build multi-billion dollar oil and gas pipelines from azerbaijan through georgia to turkey and the west . but these investments brought no economic trickle down . here people survive on a few dollars per day , and the gas pipelines are transport conduits , not real employers . moreover , georgia ’s reward for providing a strategic export route to the west for azeri oil was not dollars , but a diplomatic insurance policy – that is , western , especially us , concern for the safety of pipelines .
japanese equities are worth half their 1990 prices , and japanese equities are worth half their 1990 levels . even in hong kong , where shares recently hit new highs , they are only 10 % above their peak in early 1994 . in the same three year , prices in wall street and europe skyrocketed by 60 % or more . this picture bears no relation to what we hear in political speeches or read in business newspapers . policymakers warn of the challenge posed by asia ’s “ tiger economies . ”
national banking systems should be unified to separate private losses from sovereign debt , with centralized supervision and resolution authorities , as well as a deposit-insurance scheme forming the core of the european banking union . strong central institutions , responsible for a directly elected parliament , are needed to coordinate fiscal and economic policies . in the shorter term , the single market should be extended to services , and free-trade arrangements should be promoted either multilaterally or bilaterally with major trading partners like the united states . austerity should be eased , especially in fiscally stronger core economies , with substantial resources devoted to boosting youth employment and investment in the over-indebted small and medium-size firms . germany ’s reluctance to lead on these issues partly reflects historical inhibitions , which are always difficult to overcome .
china , which just celebrated martial pomp the sixtieth anniversary of mao ’s founding of the people ’s republic , represents one of the most interesting cases of a nation evincing “ short sightedness ” toward its past . china has much to show for in its recent history . just consider the massive access to education of its vast rural population , in contrast to its “ democratic rival ” india . so , in sixty years , china ’s pride in the country is legitimate . in sixty years , a weak and divided country , one torn apart by wars internal and external , is about to become the world ’s second most powerful economy . china ’s insolent prosperity , even if it is far from being equally distributed , is china ’s relative political stability , even if the regime ’s opening remains strictly limited , undeniable , and deserving of respect .
inevitably , the interest-rate premium that the market would demand from a young sovereign like scotland could be minimized by issuing sterling debt , thereby protecting investors from additional devaluation risk . but , without its own currency-issuing central bank , scotland would forego seigniorage ( the profits from central-bank operations that typically benefit the national treasury ) . perhaps more important , it would have no lender of last resort capable of stabilizing the banking and financial system in crisis . all things considered , an independent scotland would be best served by issuing its own national currency from the outset , empowering scotland ’s national bank to set interest rates according to domestic economic conditions . by allowing for exchange-rate flexibility , this approach would also enable the central bank to avoid the twin hazards that arise in a currency union : undervaluation , which generates inflationary pressure , and overvaluation that demands wrenching internal devaluations ( driving down real wages ) .
value-subtracting heavy industries shrunk , services expanded to more than 50 % of gdp , and the private sector generates almost 60 % of russian output . although transition was bound to be painful , russia ’s epidemic of corruption has caused more political damage than the economic side effects of reform . government tolerance of bribery and racketeering has enabled opponents to say that the “ mafia ” has been grabbing the gains from economic change . the government , and thus economic reform , will pay for this neglect at the polls . throughout the ex-communist world , corruption blights reform .
he is neither corrupt nor criminal of war , aggressive in his utterance and behavior , nor likely bend the law to personal power . many people voted for him by default , both now and when he defeated miloševic in 2000 . although he does not sacrifice major moral principles for power , koštunica is not the unassuming lawyer he once was . he crams his mediocrities party , selects mostly bad advisers , and does not listen to the rare good . his image as a right-of-center democrat conceals a reactionary who would like serbia to restore its pre-wwii monarchy and the orthodox church to play a major role in political and social life .
or the yellow vests may turn out to lack that boldness and settle for the paltry pleasure of being seen on television . they will allow themselves to become intoxicated by the sight of luminaries and experts of la france d’en haut ( elite france ) seeming to eat from their hands and hang on to every word . but if the yellow vests allow passionate hate to win out over genuine fraternity and choose wrecking over reforming , they will bring only chaos , not improvement , to humble and vulnerable people ’s lives . they will careen into the darkest side of the political night , and end up in the dustbin of history , where they can rub elbows with those other yellows , the early-twentieth-century “ yellow socialists ” of proto-fascist syndicalist pierre biétry . the yellow vests must choose : democratic re-invention , or an updated version of national socialist leagues ; a willingness to repair , or the urge to destroy .
according to iranian-turkish business council vice president recep tayyip erdoğan , “ it is extremely complicated to do business in iran . ” a former turkish diplomat in iran described the business climate in stark terms : “ it is as if iranians prefer a lose/lose outcome to a win/win in their dealings with foreign partners . ” what lessons can be drawn from the failure of turkish businesses in iran ? some blame appalling infrastructure and high road taxes . others suggest that iran ’s almost non-existent banking system is the culprit . still others blame america ’s “ invisible hand , ” which is to fear that iran and turkey could become too powerful .
moreover , we must invest in research and development of low-cost diabetes treatments and diagnostic tools that are suited to low-resource environments . smart collaborative projects that bring innovative thinkers from nonprofits , academia , and the private sector together to create effective , affordable , and appropriate solutions are desperately needed . diabetes is not unique among ncds . essential medicines and technologies for diagnosing and treating heart disease , cancer , and respiratory ailments are also significantly less accessible and proportionally more expensive for people in low - and middle-income countries than they are for those in the rich world . this disparity prompted the lancet to call the ncd crisis the “ social justice issue of our time . ”
south orange , new jersey – if an international organization made recommendations for improving a country ’s economy , the country adopted fewer than half of them , the organization might seem like a failure . but an international organization should be judged according to the quality of information and advice it provides , not by whether governments listen . indeed , measuring its success solely on compliance ignores the purpose : encouraging – and facilitating – reform by informing officials about its costs and benefits . every 18 months , the organization for economic cooperation and development releases an economic survey of each of its 34 member countries , including a list of previous recommendations and their implementation status . in its 2010 united nations survey , the oecd made 29 recommendations , from rebuilding the national electricity grid to expanding health-care coverage to implementing a cap-and-trade scheme .
he also must do nothing to weaken america ’s alliances with south korea and japan , which will require him to maintain close contact with both moon and japanese prime minister shinzo abe throughout the process , lest either leader feel ignored or undermined . moreover , he will need to keep all alternatives on the table , even as military options become less tenable in the context of inter-korean dialogue . most important , he will need to get the north korean regime at least to acknowledge that genuine denuclearization is the goal , and to agree to a process for continued dialogue , perhaps culminating in another summit . whatever the outcome , trump would do well to ask himself whether it is any better than the joint comprehensive plan of action with iran that he has described has “ the worst deal ever . ” then again , persuading trump to engage in self-reflection could prove to be the toughest challenge yet .
another way to look at the german election outcome is then as an opportunity for a new start . an end to the cdu-spd “ grand coalition ” could mean an end to political stagnation not just in germany , but at the european level , too . germany ’s post-election coalition negotiations are now underway , and , with the sdp determined not to join the government , the most likely outcome is a “ jamaica ” alliance ( named for the colors of that country ’s flag ) comprising the cdu , the free democrats ( fdp ) , and the greens . germany ’s next government , one hopes , will include pro-european politicians with fresh ideas and a willingness to push for european-level reforms , possibly along the lines of what macron has proposed . in that case , a new crop of leaders could be a driving force shaping germany ’s role in europe for years to come .
the timing could not have been worse . elimination of fuel subsidies has caused riots and widespread strikes against the transition government , giving nigeria ’s generals a pretext to reassert military control . it would take six long years under rapacious military rule before nigeria received another chance at democracy . last year , nigeria celebrated a remarkable escape from dictatorship . after the brutal and hyper-corrupt military ruler general sani abacha – suddenly falling dead – the military sullenly agreed to another national election .
these barriers are particularly high for lgbtqi individuals , women with disabilities , indigenous women , rural women , and adolescents . instead of sidestepping the issue of sexual and reproductive health – and gender equality more broadly – governments must acknowledge their responsibility to address women ’s needs . they must consider the central role that sexual and reproductive health plays in women ’s lives , the integrated nature of women ’s health , and its impact on communities . and they must design uhc programs accordingly . for example , to reduce maternal mortality , antenatal attention is not enough to provide safe delivery , safe delivery , and postnatal care ; women also need access to safe , legal , and affordable abortion services , and post-abortion care .
likewise , little progress toward nuclear disarmament has been made , in disregard of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty . brazil ’s abundance of energy , food , water , and biodiversity increases its stake in the security environment , characterized by rising competition for access or control of natural resources . to meet the challenges of this complex reality , brazil ’s peaceful foreign policy must be underpinned by a robust defense policy . brazil ’s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , states that modernizing the armed forces are intrinsically linked to national development . it thus emphasizes the need to strengthen domestic defense industries .
yao ming , the chinese star of the national basketball association ’s houston rockets , could become another michael jordan , and china is set to host the 2008 summer olympics . large expatriate communities in the us – 2.4 million chinese and 1.7 million indians – have raised interest in their home countries among other americans . moreover , transnational connections in the information industry are close , as western high-tech companies increasingly employ affiliates in bangalore and shanghai to provide real-time services . but the real promise for china and india lies in the future . a country ’s soft power rests on the attractiveness of its culture , its appeal to domestic political and social values , and its foreign policies ’ style and substance .
the european commission ’s agreement in september to postpone the full implementation of ukraine ’s association agreement with the european union – an agreement that ukrainians fought and died for in kyiv last winter – signaled to putin that cunning , force , and intimidation can win western acquiescence in his subjugation of ukraine and the theft of crimea . the delay intended to show the eu ’s determination to make association agreements work has instead merely whetted putin ’s appetite . his hope is that some eu members ’ interest in securing russian gas supplies during the winter will cause them to forget their security interests for their allies – a classic divide-and-rule strategy , served chilled . europe can not afford to take this into its own hands . ukraine may now be passing through the eye of the storm alone .
to this end , it is critical to reframe the constitution to incorporate regional interests and recognize that the uk is a multinational state . such radical change – and , to match the scale of the crisis , it must be radical – will require nationwide debate , which could be conducted through the people ’s constitutional convention . that convention should start by examining brexit ’s impact on regions . for example , we should ask whether it makes sense to repatriate powers and financial transfers from brussels to westminster , or if some powers and financing should instead be decentralized to regions and peoples . where possible , regional funds and policymaking powers – including environmental regulation and oversight of agriculture , fisheries , and local social programs – should be delegated to appropriate regional institutions , such as the scottish parliament , welsh , and northern irish assemblies , city mayors , and local authorities .
as a result , the us is no longer in a position to set the world ’s agenda . the eu can not possibly take the eu as the world ’s leader . but it can set an example , both within its own borders and beyond . the prospect of eu membership has been the most powerful tool in turning candidate countries into open societies . while most of its citizens do not realize it , the eu serves as an inspiring example .
to be sure , putin considers the olympics – and , specifically , medals – to be very important . like his old soviet masters , he conflates athletic glory with military glory . that is why he personally lobbied for russia to host the 2014 winter games in sochi ; the unprecedented $ 50 billion price tag was well worth it , considering that russia won the most medals . ( it was russia ’s actions during the sochi olympics that form the heart of the doping scandal . ) this is not to say that athletic glory substitutes military glory .
but that is simply an attempt to make a virtue out of necessity : for a country with one of the world ’s largest and most storied bureaucracies , china has a surprisingly difficult time telling its business community not to do business with someone , especially a historic friend and ally . chinese leaders ’ longstanding reluctance to participate in international sanctions often is attributed to their belief in judging actions by or not they work . perhaps the real pragmatism on display in the case of north korea is a reluctance to rein in the business community at a time of slower growth and an internal fixation . china ’s rise is one of the most studied developments of our time . after all , it is a country that can be described as a civilization , and its trajectory has been far more impressive than that of any north korean rocket .
washington , dc – the sharp drop in crude oil prices since late june has grabbing headlines worldwide – producing a lot of contradictory explanations . some attribute the fall largely to declining global growth expectations . others are focusing on expanding america ’s oil and gas production . still others suspect a tacit agreement between saudi arabia and the united states , which focuses on , among other things , weakening political rivals like russia and iran . regardless of the reason for the price drop – probably to be found in some combination of these factors – the consequences are the same .
the global oil situation is particularly interesting at the moment . at around $ 30 a barrel , oil prices remain high even when a soft global economy means that world demand is low . the previously fashionable view that america ’s seizure of iraqi oil resources would break opec and send plummeting oil prices turned out to be nonsense . even with improved security , it will take five years to get iraqi oil to stream fully . with the american economy now recovering strongly , the price of oil should stay high , or even rise further in the foreseeable future .
after all , if markets were to truly believe that the ecb would refuse to backstop errant governments , investors would run away from participating countries at the first sign that conditionality was not being met . as with its predecessor , the us securities markets program , the omt program is legally and democratically questionable : it violates the spirit , but not the letter , of the european union ’s no-bailout clause ; its promise of equal treatment with private creditors still has no precedent ; and it involves back-door fiscal transfers , leaving the ecb heavily exposed to the political backlash – witness the visceral reaction of the german press to ecb president mario draghi ’s announcement . but omts also fit well with a large body of historical evidence that , in times of crisis , policymakers must focus on extinguishing fire rather than negotiating over who owns the water and what its cost should be . the omt program will cause credit conditions to ease , but without necessarily reversing the financial balkanization of the eurozone that has occurred over the past three years . reversal of that process will
for starters , bipartisan premium support proposals , with seniors receiving subsidies to purchase private health insurance , should be implemented . to enable individuals to prepare to cover the associated deductibles and copayments , health savings accounts – funds that are not subject to a deposit tax at any time , and can be used tax-free at any time to cover qualified medical expenses – should be expanded and strengthened . premium support can significantly reduce medicare spending , because it establishes a framework for more efficient spending on benefits , driven by competition and innovation in care and coverage . so far , the only american presidential candidate who has recognized the need for such a future-oriented approach is former florida governor jeb bush , who has proposed modernizing social-security and medicare reforms that avoid imposing high costs on middle-income americans and heavier debt burdens on future generations . two other republican candidates , ohio governor john kasich and florida senator marco rubio , have also raised constructive reform ideas .
silvio berlusconi , who becomes president of the european union on july 1 , is a man of vision who once loved risk – and whose business bets paid off big . in the 1960s , he was the first to see that milan , then a traditional italian city where people traveled to work , would become a modern metropolis surrounded by american-style suburbs . so his fortune began in real-estate development . fifteen years later , signor berlusoni understood that italy ’s monopoly on television would not survive , and begin what became italy ’s leading privately owned media group . but you do not win in tv and real-estate business without the right political connections .
beijing – financial repression – government policies that create an environment of low or negative real interest rates , with the goal of generating cheap financing for public spending – has long been a key feature of chinese economic policy . but , with funding costs for enterprises trending up , this is finally starting to change . early this year , the state council , china ’s cabinet , made funding costs less expensive for businesses , especially small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , a top priority . for its part , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) engaged in cautious monetary loosening , which includes freeing up more lending funds by banks that allocate a certain proportion of their total loan portfolio to small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . the pboc , through its “ pledged supplementary lending program , ” also began lending directly to banks that pledged to use social-housing funds .
countries with the greatest cause for concern about russia -- ukraine , estonia , latvia , and lithuania -- are not to offer nato membership . moreover , today russia is far too weak to threaten them , because the russian army 's disastrous misadventure in chechnya demonstrates . one day russia will be stronger , and if expanding nato to central europe now would discourage a revival of imperial foreign policy then this would be a powerful argument in favor of doing so . but nato expansion is not likely to make russian foreign policy more peaceful ever . russia 's democrats , with an enormous stake in a peaceful future , remain adamant that expanding alliance membership to central europe will isolate their country from europe , strengthen russian political forces that favor authoritarian rule at home and neoimperial policies abroad , and , by appearing to threaten russia , provide a rallying point for reconstructing russian military power .
but that would presuppose a small gesture toward the palestinians , who israelis regard themselves as being so deeply divided among themselves that no progress toward a peace settlement seems possible . israel ’s leaders seem intent on gaining time both tactically , by resisting the soft pressure of us president barack obama ’s administration and strategically , by preparing the country for a new world in which emerging powers like china play an increasingly important role . that world will , however , be one in which israel can no longer count on feelings of holocaust guilt to influence major powers . it is a world in which monotheistic rivalries will be diluted in an ocean of polytheist faiths , and in which israel will depend only on its comparative merits in the eyes of cynical , realistic actors who judge it solely on the basis of its own national interests . israel may be “ europe , ” and its principal ally may well remain the united states for many years to come , but israeli leaders must start thinking about how their country can thrive in a post-western world .
the final trick , “ starve the beast , ” typically comes later , if and when the president enacted his tax cuts and discovers that smoke and mirrors do not trump reality . he can not find enough spending to cut ( the magic asterisk has gone up the conjurer ’s sleeve ) ; acceleration of gdp is nowhere to be seen ( the rosy scenario that has vanished ) ; and tax revenues have not grown ( no rabbit in laffer hat ) . the audience is now told that losing tax revenue and widening the budget deficit has been the plan all along . performer explains that the deficit is all the fault of congress for not cutting spending , and that the only way to tame the beast is to raise the budget deficit because “ congress can not spend money it does n’t have . ” this trick never works either .
but there is also an urgent need to mobilize european public opinion around a symbol of our unity and our future projects : and that symbol is the european flag . for this reason , in january one of us launched the idea that , starting on march 21 , we display the flag on houses , factories , and offices . march 21 is the first day of spring , and we would like to believe that the coming european elections herald a new spring for the european project . march 21 is also the anniversary of benedict ’s death , patron saint of europe . in one of the darkest hours of the demise of the roman empire , benedict issued a stirring call for tolerance and piety to rebuild a sense of community in the face of nihilism and barbarism .
this fits a broader trend , in which attacks by perpetrators of muslim backgrounds are instantly classified as “ acts of terror ” and addressed in a well-resourced and systemic manner , while violent attacks perpetrated in the name of other ideologies are treated as an “ isolated incident . ” but nothing isolated is possible from such incidents . according to the 2018 global terrorism index , the death toll from terrorist attacks linked to far-right groups or individuals has been steadily rising since 2014 . in the united states , right-wing extremists have carried out far more attacks than islamists . the attacks in christchurch were inspired directly by the 2011 far-right terrorist attack in norway , of which i am one of the few lucky survivors .
the fruit of the franco-german partnership included the european single currency . after its birth in 1999 , germany ’s government , by now relocated from bonn to berlin , contented itself once again with a lower european profile . that modest and unassuming role belongs firmly in the past , even though german power still has a imagination to match . the intellectual leadership provided by frenchmen like jean monnet and robert schuman as the founding fathers of the european project is fading memory , because germany has yet to forge a comparably robust strategy for reviving the eu ’s prospects and popularity . indisputably , the strongest and most dependable of the 28 member countries lacks a vision of where beleaguered europe should be headed .
china has been engaged in what might be called “ vendor finance , ” providing money that helps finance america ’s huge fiscal and trade deficits , allowing americans to buy more goods than they sell . but this is a peculiar arrangement : a relatively poor country is helping to finance america ’s war on iraq , as well as a massive tax cut for the world ’s richest people , while huge needs at home imply ample room for expansion of both consumption and investment . in fact , to meet the challenge of restructuring china ’s economy away from exports and resource-intensive goods , china must stimulate consumption . while the rest of the world struggles to raise savings , china , with a savings rate exceeding 40 % , is struggling to get its people to consume more . providing better social services ( public health care , education , and the national wide retirement programs ) would reduce the need for “ precautionary ” savings .
selling five-rupee sachets of shampoo to poor consumers is viewed as clever marketing , but lending 5,000 rupees to starving peasant at high interest rates is viewed as exploitative . after all , both activities are financed by investors seeking returns on their capital and motivated more by profit than compassion . but one is clearly less socially acceptable than the other . a high salary earned by cosmetics or soft-drink manufacturer attracts no attention ; one paid to the ceo of a company that thrives on lending to the poor seems unseemly , if not immoral . yet pmfis succeeded by meeting a genuine need .
berkeley – advances in artificial intelligence and robotics are powering a new wave of automation , with machines matching or outperforming humans in a fast-growing array of tasks , including some requiring complex cognitive capabilities and advanced degrees . this process has outpaced experts ’ expectations ; not surprisingly , its possible adverse effects on both quantity and quality of employment have raised serious concerns . to listen to president donald trump ’s administration , one might think that trade remains the primary reason for the loss of manufacturing jobs in the united states . trump ’s treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , has declared that the potential technological displacement of workers is “ not even on [ the administration ’s ] radar screen . ” among economists , however , the consensus is that about 80 % of the lost jobs in american manufacturing over the last three decades were a product of labor-saving and productivity-enhancing technological change , with trade coming a distant second .
berkeley – back in the late 1980 ’s , japan seemingly could not have done the wrong thing in economists ’ eyes . they saw a clear edge in japan ’s competitiveness relative to the north atlantic across a wide range of high-tech precision and mass-production industries in tradable goods . they also saw an economy that , since reconstruction began after world war ii , greatly outperformed european economies ’ expected growth . and they saw an economy growing at a much faster pace than north atlantic economies had when they possessed the same absolute and relative economy-wide productivity levels . the safe bet in the late 1980 ’s seemed to be that mechanization , computerization , and robotization would continue .
amos oz , one of israel ’s best known writers , argues that the current palestinian-israeli war is actually two wars : an “ unjust ” war against israel and the jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state in an “ arab palestine , ” and a palestinian “ just ” war for an independent state worthy of the name . conversely , israel is also fighting two wars : a mere war to defend its right to exist , accepted in its integrity and security in the middle east , and an unjust and futile war to perpetuate its occupation of the west bank and gaza strip and the jewish settlements located there . there are some 220,000 israeli settlers in the west bank and gaza , excluding roughly 190,000 people living in jerusalem ’s neighborhoods that extend beyond the pre-1967 borders of the old , divided jerusalem . despite the intifada , the number of settlers has decreased in only a few 144 settlements , with more than 7,000 settlers in gaza alone occupying 20 % of impoverished land already suffering one of the world ’s highest population densities . israeli state
the reaction of the market was to send spanish government bond rates even higher . contrary to some perceptions , europeans have not remained inactive over the past year . but they have lost touch , and they have not yet lost touch . like aging magicians , they still try tricks that used to impress but that fail to deliver results – or , worse , prove counterproductive . meanwhile , financial fragmentation within the eurozone continues ; spain , and , to a lesser extent , italy , suffers from a seemingly irresistible rise in borrowing costs ; and political strains are growing more visible .
with asia riven by territorial disputes and historical tensions , maintaining a stable security balance will not be easy . but there are levers in place that can help . in the 1990s , when president bill clinton ’s administration was considering how to respond to china ’s increasing economic might , some urged a policy of containment . clinton rejected that advice : it would have been impossible to forge an anti-china alliance , given china ’s enduring desire to maintain good relations with it ; more important , such a policy would have guaranteed future enmity with china . instead , clinton chose a policy that could be called “ integrate and insure . ”
interests and identities are dynamically formed as politicians make offers of representation and citizens respond . trump , for example , undoubtedly succeeded in persuading some americans to see themselves as part of something like the white identity movement . but that identity – and the way its adherents frame their interests – could change again . the image of irresistible populist “ wave ” was always misleading . farage did not bring about brexit all by himself .
they will facilitate interactions across their network to stimulate the development of innovation ecosystems . the resulting opportunities to expand beyond traditional products and markets will enable pharmaceutical companies to evolve into companies offering a wide array of health-care solutions . these will include not just prescription medicines , but also diagnostics , branded generics , and technologies that support personalized medicine , as well as so-called “ neutraceuticals ” and other “ wellness options . ” although the size of many r & d organizations is bound to be reduced by such reforms , managing complexities , and maximizing the impact of this external web of relationships will demand new skills and capabilities over and beyond those of excellent science . developing and rewarding employees who possess such skills will be an additional but welcome , challenge .
economics is not the kind of science in which there could ever be one true model that works best in all contexts . the point is not “ to reach a consensus about which model is right , ” as romer puts it , but to figure out which model applies best in a given setting . and doing so will always remain craft , not science , especially when the choice has to be made in real time . the social world differs from the physical world , because it is man-made , and hence almost infinitely malleable . so , unlike in the natural sciences , economics advances scientifically not by replacing old models with better ones , but by expanding its library of models , with each shedding light on another social contingency .
today , the agricultural sector accounts for only one-third of total employment in china , compared to one-half in india . india ’s structural transformation and sustainable growth will hinge on its efforts to build a flexible labor market , centered on easing outdated and complicated employment laws . the legal protections for workers in india ’s formal sector exceed those of most developed countries , as well as china , with mandated requirements rising as the workforce increases . as jagdish bhagwati and arvind panagariya have pointed out , excessive labor-market regulations discourage indian entrepreneurs from employing unskilled workers and developing labor-intensive manufacturing , implying that the indian government should redouble its reform efforts in this area . equally important , indian workers – particularly young people – need opportunities to upgrade their skills continuously .
the new policy explicitly encourages chinese enterprises to work with local enterprises in sectors like logistics , electricity , and information systems , and it promotes interaction among business , community , and government leaders . equally important , the policy also expands the availability of chinese financing , credits , and insurance to investors . taken together , this holistic approach is something new for china . despite considerable political uncertainty in a number of countries in latin america , governments in the region seem keen to meet china ’s reform efforts with changes of their own . brazil ’s government , for example , has promoted an “ investment partnership program ” to coordinate investment in the finance and transportation infrastructure sectors .
in the end , gdp composition will provide the acid test of whether china has succeeded . but the key word here is “ eventually . ” it is far too early to expect significant shifts in major sources of aggregate demand . for now , it is far more important to examine trends in the potential determinants of chinese consumption . from this perspective , there is good reason for optimism , especially given the accelerated growth of china ’s services sector – one of the key building blocks of consumer-led rebalancing .
to be sure , the us presidency grants trump considerable power to shape trade policy , so one can not ignore the possibility that he will pursue protectionist measures to appease his supporters . but , ultimately , there is no broad-based american support for a return to closed borders . europe , meanwhile , has been moving in the opposite direction . european multinationals also have large stakes in the chinese economy , and eu manufacturing exports to china and other emerging markets are now almost double those of the us . many europeans view trade as an opportunity rather than a threat to jobs ; and even europe ’s staunchest anti-globalizers are showing little appetite for more protectionism .
at the time , manafort was indebted to the russian oligarch oleg deripaska , an aluminum tycoon close to president vladimir putin , to tune $ 19 million . deripaska , who is subject to us sanctions , previously maintained a $ 10 million annual deal with manafort . like other russian oligarchs deripaska , manafort is not known to deal gently with people displease him . after taking the job , manafort emged a ukraine-based employee , “ how do we use [ this ] to get the whole ? ” manafort also offered to brief deripaska about what was going on in the trump campaign .
kyiv – from snowy kyiv , i have watched successful revolutions in cairo and tunis with joy and admiration . egyptians and tunisians are right to be proud of their desire to overthrow despotic governments peacefully . but , as someone who led the peaceful revolution , i hope that pride is tempered by pragmatism , because regime change is only the first step in establishing a democracy backed by the rule of law . indeed , as my country , ukraine , is now demonstrating , after revolutionary euphoria fades and normality returns , democratic revolutions can be betrayed and reversed . ukraine ’s first lesson for the egyptian and tunisian democrats is that elections do not make democracy any more .
increasingly , we are using our fingerprints or our face to unlock our smartphones , pay for purchases , and board airplanes . protection against theft is obvious : what use is a phone , car , or ticket that will work only for its legitimate owner ? above all , biometrics can protect against theft by our identities themselves . that is the argument behind the world ’s largest biometrics project , multimodal solutions ( iris , fingerprints , and face ) , affecting more than one billion indians . nandan nilekani , chairman of infosys , who left his job to create a system known as aadhaar , credits it with saving the indian government roughly $ 9 billion by eliminating duplicate and false identities in government beneficiary lists .
pittsburgh – almost six months ago , at a moment of great alarm about the global financial and economic crisis , g-20 leaders met for a historic summit in london . their collective commitments to stimulate , regulate , and restructure global economic activity helped calm nerves around the world . many of the problems that spurred the london summit remain real . anxiety levels may have come down , in the board rooms and stock markets , but the daily drama for survival continues . indeed , for many people , it has deepened , in the villages and streets of the world ’s least-developed countries – particularly in africa . the united nations and the world bank predict that the direct and indirect effects of the economic meltdown will be felt in the developing world for a long time to come .
were we observing someone with intimate knowledge of catastrophes ? or was she just the party ’s most beautiful girl – the one avid adolescent asked to dance , and then held on tightly ? the world is now collectively writing a new novel . roth skillfully distilled the tragic and comic elements of this process , and we talked about forces that might be up to the dark tide of vulgarity and violence under trump . the first is the sovereign people who poured into the streets of every large city in the country with the knowledge that , in terms of total votes , it is they , not trump , who won the election .
perhaps simpson had a change of heart , and he was perhaps simpson . perhaps he traveled his own road to damascus , came face-to-face with what he did , and who , he was , repented , and wanted to repair some of the damage to america and its long-run economic-growth prospects that he had caused . even in that case , however , naming those who misbehave to important positions of high trust and acclaim them as bipartisan statesmen gives the next generation truly lousy incentives . and it is not as though congressional republicans think they owe enough to simpson for him to swing a single vote in either chamber of the legislature . obama officials assured me that simpson had , indeed , a change of heart ; that he was a smart man with a sophisticated understanding of the issues ; that he could sway reporters and get them to describe the commission ’s advice as “ bipartisan ” ( even though he could not sway actual legislators ) ; and that he would be a genuine asset for substantive work .
what demographers call the total fertility rate is the average number of live births per woman over her lifetime . in the long run , a population is said to be stable if the tfr is at replacement rates , a figure that is slightly above 2.3 for the world as a whole , and somewhat lower , at 2.1 for developed countries , reflecting their lower infant-mortality rates . the tfr for most developed countries now stands well below replacement levels . the oecd average is at around 1.74 , but some countries , including germany and japan , produce less than 1.4 children per woman . the largest tfr declines in recent years , however , in developing countries .
by 2004 , there were more than one billion subscribers to gsm services worldwide . the global reach of regulation implied huge economies of scale in handsets and network hardware , so prices fell rapidly , and interoperability between networks and across countries was much easier to achieve . many regulations play this standard-setting role . contrary to the simplistic view that regulation inevitably is bad for business , there are actually three important channels through which regulation can benefit the economy . one is the market-creating and market-growing role illustrated by gsm .
laguna beach – when i consider the prospects for the global economy and markets , i am aback by the extent to which the world has collectively placed a huge bet on three fundamental outcomes : a shift toward materially higher and more inclusive global growth , avoidance of policy mistakes , and prevention of market accidents . while all three outcomes are undoubtedly desirable , the unfortunate reality is that they are far from certain – and bets on them without some hedging could prove exceedingly risky for current and future generations . the first component of the bet – more inclusive global growth – anticipates continued economic recovery in the united states , with the 3 % growth rate this year bolstered by robust wage growth . it also presupposes that china ’s annual growth rate will stabilize at 6.5-7 % , thereby enabling the risks posed by pockets of excessive leverage in the shadow-banking system to be gradually defused , even as the economy ’s growth engines continue to shift from exports and public capital spending toward domestic consumption and private investment . another , more uncertain assumption underpinning the bet on more
clinton ’s popularity rose after impeachment proceedings ended . most americans believed that impeachment was a mistake . many worried that the clinton impeachment process would damage the presidency , but its main impact on presidential power was the opposite . republicans eventually agreed with democrats that responsibility for the debacle lay with kenneth starr , the independent counsel whose investigation of clinton ’s real-estate dealings years earlier ultimately led him to lewinsky . the two parties allowed the independent counsel statute to lapse , freeing the presidency from a powerful form of oversight , much to trump ’s benefit a generation later .
most recently , in may 2015 , large numbers of traditional labour voters deserted their party to vote for the uk independence party ( ukip ) , which was at the forefront of the brexit campaign . to be sure , establishment leaders have long been trying to rescue their own skins by ramping up criticism of the eu , blaming it for demanding that national governments pursue unpopular or failed policies . but that simply put ideas for alternate policies out of reach , while causing voters to direct their opposition to the eu itself . though establishment parties have criticized the eu , for the most part , they have not lost sight of the benefits of membership . indeed , in the uk ’s referendum , both major parties backed the “ remain ” campaign , though split internally .
and other emerging economies are not likely to pick up the slack . brazil , touted in 2010 as an “ emerging aid player , ” is now in economic and political crisis , as is south africa . these challenges are compounded by new financial regulations in the advanced countries , which are hampering investment flows and finance to the developing world . weakening developing-country incomes further is the global demand slowdown and commodities crash , which , as nobel laureate angus deaton has shown , has been disastrous for much of the developing world . to cap it all , expansionary monetary policies adopted by the major economies are fueling instability .
pakistan has a large nuclear-weapons program , and it faces an expansive jihadi insurgency that previously attacked military bases suspected of housing nuclear assets . though pakistan has not experienced a nuclear breach , and the government insists that safeguards remain robust , the country ’s increasingly frequent and severe bouts of instability raise serious questions about the future . while north korea ’s nuclear arsenal is much smaller , persistent doubts about the regime ’s sustainability make it a matter of grave concern . in the event of regime collapse – distinct possibility – it would be difficult to avoid diversion of its assets , or even to use its weapons . for its part , iran seems relatively stable , at least compared to its neighbors .
but this was not a us-iran agreement ; it was negotiated by six leading powers and endorsed by the united nations . those powers should make it clear that they will not re-impose sanctions , and that any us attempt to impose its will through extraterritorial measures – say , using access to dollar clearing systems as a foreign-policy tool – would be countered by coordinated action . for the uk , in particular , this may require a willingness to disagree head-on with us foreign policy in a manner that some devotees of the us “ special relationship ” will find uncomfortable . as for climate change , the election of a man purports to believe that global warming is a chinese hoax created to damage american business is clearly bad news . but global momentum to tackle climate change can and must be sustained .
paradoxically , in the pessimistic scenario , iran ’s new government , controlled by conservatives and hardliners , actually fits the region better than the current one . after all , saudi arabia , egypt , and many other arab states are also ruled by authoritarian hardliners with little interest in de-escalation regional conflicts . this would make the resurgence of reform-oriented leadership in iran exceedingly difficult . the most likely scenario , of course , is a combination of both dynamics . but , given that it is in everyone ’s interest to ensure that developments hew more closely to reform-oriented paths , it should be clear to all that the diplomatic work with regard to iran is far from complete .
in the aftermath of the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008 , italy ’s then-finance minister giulio tremonti famously endorsed the health of the country ’s banking system . as a result , a major recapitalization of italian banks and the creation of a “ bad bank ” to absorb npls was deemed unnecessary . ten years later , italy is no longer that envisioned land of prosperous banks and happy savers . prolonged recession and economic malaise dented individual savings rates , while banks no longer have the resources to provide a peace of mind to many retail investors whose trust was severely eroded . the implicit pact between banks and savers broke in late 2015 , when four troubled local banks bailed out and shareholders took the hit .
many poles are wary of the church ’s equivocal attitude toward democracy , and are allergic to its aggressive presence in politics . it is a sad paradox , indeed , that for many ex-communists in opposing the church pose as defenders of the liberal democratic values that they once persecuted with unremitting zeal . kwasniewski ’s strategy of seduction appealed to large numbers of young and middle class parties , but most of all to peasants , the unemployed , those left behind by poland ’s growing economy . so the man who spoke a lot about the future rode to power saddled with the votes of the past . this link will dog kwasniewski ’s presidency .
a consensus has now been reached on the need to assist smallholders , but obstacles remain . perhaps the main risk is that the “ aid bureaucracies ” now trip over each other to try to get their hands on $ 20 billion , so that much of it gets up to meetings , expert consultations , overhead , reports , and further meetings . “ partnerships ” of donors can become expensive ends in themselves , merely delaying real action . if donor governments really want results , they should take money out of thirty or more separate aid bureaucracies and pool it in one or two places , the most logical being the world bank in washington and the international fund for agricultural development ( ifad ) in rome . one or both of these agencies would then account for several billion dollars .
after all , the brics economies are probably the most important source of future global growth . they represent more than one-quarter of earth ’s landmass , more than 41 % of its population , nearly 25 % of world gdp , and almost half of all foreign-exchange and gold reserves . the brics , in fact , might also be dubbed r-5 , after its members ’ currencies – the real , ruble , rupee , renminbi , and rand . at the new delhi summit , the brics leaders will discuss creating joint institutions , particularly the commonwealth development bank , which can help mobilize savings among countries . currently , the brics countries constitute a loose , informal bloc .
on the contrary , he must change the conversation to reassure voters that their economic future is bright . as it stands , the british , like their counterparts elsewhere in europe , feel over-taxed for spotty public services , which are constantly being slashed , angry that their incomes have been falling for the last five years . as a result , many resent welfare recipients and fear competition for jobs – sentiment fueling the rise of populist , anti-eu , and anti-immigrant parties across europe . the key difference in the uk is that ukip is gaining ground with voters , despite rapid economic growth ( more than 3 % annually , the highest rate in the eu ) . between now and may , cameron must persuade voters that the british economy will continue to perform strongly , fueling a rise in real incomes .
it is subject to what milton friedman called “ long and variable lags . ” policies aimed at boosting employment by the end of , say , this calendar year needed to be put in place about a year ago to have time to have their full effect . some countries – china , for example – have done , indeed , implementing such job-creation policies a year ago and are already seeing the benefits . others , like the united states , have not , and so unemployment remains at around 10 % . this is not to say that the obama administration has not tried to boost employment .
sectors with higher levels of human capital – electronic consumer goods , for example – have far higher r & d costs than shoe sectors , so manufacturing these goods on an assembly line in a low-cost country is probably not very costly when compared to r & d and other intangible costs . for more advanced goods , the eu added value ( if intangible parts of the production process are in europe ) . imposing trade defenses against such goods , even if legally justified , is likely to create problems for globalized european companies . many argue that these problems are the price to be paid for ensuring that companies do not engage in anti-competitive behavior or receive trade-distorting subsidies . but , even if the measures worked as intended , most trade defense measures are probably not directed against anti-competitive business practices .
motivating corporations to do the right thing is even more difficult . after all , corporations have no conscience ; it is only the conscience of those running the corporation ; and , as america ’s recent corporate scandals have made all too clear , conscience often takes a backseat to profits . america ’s legal system makes sure that firms that produce defective , particularly unsafe products are held liable for the consequences . firms are in a far better position than consumers to assess their product ’s safety ; we all benefit from knowing that our legal system has provided incentives to corporations to pay attention to the safety of what they produce . similarly , environmental laws make firms liable for their toxic wastes , and many countries , including the us , have enshrined the principle that “ polluters pay , ” that is , companies must pay for the damage they cause .
we need not look far for such a mission . the case for acting on a massive scale to combat climate change has been made in europe , and even in china . why has such little debate been made in the us ? is it because those who oppose such discussions reject the science of climate change ? or do they deny science because accepting it would legitimize an economically activist state ?
once again , irish voters are poised to vote yes or no to the nice treaty . forgotten what that treaty is all about ? well , it is one of those all-too-frequent late-night compromises reached by eu heads of state and government that seek slither around and through some practical problems while postponing others . the compromise reached at nice four years ago is important because it contains , among other provisions , all technicalities of voting balances and power-sharing among eu institutions that must be firmly in place before the union can admit new members . enlargement is the most important item on the european agenda .
with the proverbial benefit ( and embarrassment ! ) of hindsight , it is clear that the patterns of growth that have occurred over the past half-century were little understood and rarely ( if ever ) forecast by economists . at the very moment in the 1960s , when asia ’s tiger economies were starting to take off , for example , the nobel laureate gunnar myrdal wrote his asian drama to diagnose the causes of asian poverty and explain why his poverty appeared inimminably . simultaneous , a strong consensus developed among economists and policymakers that favored import substitution policies then pursued by countries including india , argentina , brazil , egypt , and turkey . after beggaring their adherents , these policies are now utterly discredited . the key point here is not only that economists got so much wrong , but that almost no one got things right .
but wade postponed legislative elections , originally scheduled for june 2006 , first to february 2007 , and later by presidential decree , to june 2007 . two weeks ago , there were almost daily debates about the possibility of a presidential election being postponed indefinitely . a presidential election appears to be in place now . a month before the election , only 64 % of citizens who registered had their voting cards received . on january 28 , a peaceful but “ unauthorized ” demonstration by opposition parties brutally repressed the police and three presidential candidates for the day .
princeton , the nj – the intersection of genetics and intelligence is an intellectual minefield . harvard ’s former president larry summers touched off one explosion in 2005 , when tentatively suggested a genetic explanation for the difficulty of his university ’s recruiting female professors in math and physics . ( he did not suggest that men are on average more gifted in these fields than women , but that there is some reason to believe that men are more likely than women to be found at both the upper and lower end of the spectrum of abilities in these fields – and harvard , of course , only appoints people at the extreme end of the spectrum . ) now one of our most eminent scientists has blundered far more clumsily into the same minefield , with predictable results . in october , james watson , who shared the 1962 nobel prize for his description of dna structure , was in london to promote his memoir , avoid boring people , and other lessons from life in science .
china ’s current president , xi jinping , visited zimbabwe in 2015 . state visits to china in the other direction have been more uneven . mugabe ’s first visit to china in 1980 was just six months after independence ; he made 13 more during his tenure ; and high-level visits by other zimbabwean officials were even more frequent , occurring roughly once every two years during mugabe ’s reign . kenyan presidents , by contrast , traveled to china just six times during the same period , most recently in may 2017 . zimbabwe ’s leaders made the most of their visits to press for trade and military cooperation , and likely engaged directly with private chinese companies .
geneva – the world ’s refugee crisis is most often measured in numbers . but for young refugees missing out on education , the crisis can also be tracked by an irreversible metric : passage of time . of the 17.2 million people that the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( the un refugee agency ) is responsible for protecting , roughly half are under the age of 18 , meaning that an entire generation of young people , already robbed of their childhood , could lose out on a future just as well . school-age children form a large share of the world ’s displaced population . at the end of 2016 , an estimated 11.6 million refugees were lifted out of “ protracted displacement ” : they were away from their homes for more than five years , and have no “ immediate prospects ” of return .
but how serious are these policy-crimes to which greenspan now pleads guilty ? in my view , they are misdemeanors . against them , you must set what former us treasury secretary larry summers calls greenspan ’s “ golden glove ” performance at avoiding and minimizing recessions during his years at the fed . the “ felonies ” of which greenspan stands accused are the other two charges : that he should have done more to stop the stock-market bubble of the late 1990 ’s , and that he should have done more to stop the housing bubble of the early 2000 ’s . here , greenspan holds his ground , and pleads not guilty .
and it is better to know that history , if we wish to avoid repeating its ugliest scenes . the truth is that the bds movement is nothing more than a sinister caricature of anti-totalitarian and anti-apartheid struggles . it is a campaign whose instigators have no purpose other than to discriminate against , delegitimize , and vilify israel that , in their mind , never stopped wearing its yellow star . to activists of good faith who may have been taken by duplicitous representations of the movement , i would say only that there are too many noble causes in need of assistance to allow oneself to be enlisted in dubious ways . those worthy causes include fighting jihadist decapitators , saving women and girls enslaved by boko haram , defending the middle east ’s imperiled christians and arab democrats , and , of course , striving for just peace between israelis and palestinians .
it is too soon to discount genetics , however , because the science of “ epigenetics ” – the study of mechanisms for turning genes on and off , thereby altering how a cell develops without altering the genetic code – is gaining traction . indeed , the 2012 nobel prize in medicine was awarded to john gurdon and shinya yamanaka for revolutionizing scientists ’ understanding of how cells develop by reprogramming dna and cells without altering their genetic structure . in 1962 , gurdon ’s finding that almost any cell in the body contains the complete dna code allowed him to create a tadpole by cloning an adult frog . more than four decades later , in 2006 , yamanaka discovered a way to trick complex adult cells in mice into regressing to their immature state , forming stem cells . before this , stem cells – which can potentially be reprogrammed to develop into replacements for lost or damaged tissue – could be taken only from early-stage embryos , a practice that fueled ethical controversy .
claims could be prioritized and processed regularly , and refugees could arrive in europe healthy and ready to work or study . the crisis in the mediterranean can not be managed piecemeal . the financial costs of patrolling its waters and rescuing those adrift are exorbitant . the loss of lives are inexcusable . but we do not have to wait until the root causes of displacement – state failure and civil war – are addressed .
according to the most up-to-date estimate by the late economic historian angus maddison , china ’s per capita gdp in 2008 was $ 6,725 in 1990 , which amounted to 21 % of per capita gdp in the united states . that is roughly the same gap that existed between the us and japan in 1951 , singapore in 1967 , taiwan in 1975 , and south korea in 1977 – four economies that are also among the 13 successful economies studied by the growth commission . harnessing their latecomer advantage , japan ’s average annual growth rate soared to 9.2 % in the subsequent 20 years , compared to 8.6 % in singapore , 8.3 % in taiwan , and 7.6 % in south korea . if the latecomer ’s advantage implied by the income gap between the four nies and the us allowed nies to realize average annual gdp growth rates of 7.6 % for 20 years , china ’s annual growth potential should be equivalent to 8 % for the 2008-2028 period . to realize its potential growth as a latecomer , china needs , above all , to deepen its market-oriented reforms
signatories agreed to conserve biological diversity , by saving species and habitats , and to deploy biological resources ( such as forests ) sustainably . in 2002 , the treaty signatories went further , committing to “ a significant reduction in the current rate of biodiversity loss ” by 2010 . unfortunately , like so many other international agreements , the convention on biological diversity remains essentially unknown , un-championed , and unfulfilled . that neglect is a human tragedy , and it is not the human tragedy that we can afford . for a very low cash outlay – and perhaps none at all on balance – we could conserve nature and thus protect the basis of our own lives and livelihoods .
it is because netanyahu is driven by an almost messianic determination to prevent iran from acquiring the means to destroy israel , that he might be amenable to a fundamental change in his position on palestine , provided obama makes visible headway in his drive to halt iran ’s nuclear program . in netanyahu ’s view , solving the palestinian problem would not remove the iranian challenge ; rather , it is the neutralization of that existential threat that pave the way for the creation of a palestinian state . netanyahu also knows that the arab side ’s failures have nurtured radical zionism . as john kerry , the chairman of the american senate foreign affairs committee , put it , “ this peace process is not one way street ” in which the onus is placed exclusively on israel . it remains to be seen if the abysmally dysfunctional arab world and the powerful non-state agents in its midst , such as hamas and hezbollah , will respond to the way obama expects .
just as imemo economists predicted , most ( 66 % ) of those who answered this question in moscow thought it unfair . but there was a surprise : new york yielded virtually identical results ( 68 % thought it was unfair ) . so we decided last year to figure out whether the same similarity between moscow and new york persists today or whether , given the revival of authoritarianism in russia today , attitudes toward markets have become more negative . we administered the identical questionnaire in the two cities in 2015 . we presented the results at the american economic association ’s annual meeting this january .
like a dysfunctional family , the northern “ advanced ” countries ponder whether or not to bail out the southern “ emerging ” economies . prognoses for each case are starkly different . in the former version , interest rates converge , and default risk is nil , because , with the ecb backstopping its members ’ liabilities , as the us federal reserve does in the us , the euro becomes “ local currency . ” and how often do we hear about sovereign-debt restructurings ? in the latter version of the eurozone , differential credit risk is at stake , and ultimately bank runs , de-euroization , and default : the common currency is at odds with member states ’ needs .
republicans therefore have a good chance of creating a conservative majority on the nine-member supreme court , which may last for decades , especially if they win the presidency again in 2020 . that majority may erode democratic checks , such as campaign-finance limits , which dealt a devastating blow to the 2010 citizens ’ united decision . in a 5-4 majority , the court ruled that corporations are “ associations of individuals , ” and thus that any limits on the amount of money corporations could spend on political campaigns violated their first amendment right to freedom of expression . republican obstructionism in the senate also put other levels of the federal judiciary at risk . during president barack obama ’s second term in office , the rate at which vacancies in america ’s district and circuit courts were filled fell to its lowest point in 50 years .
calderon ’s task will not be easy , either . lopez obrador and his supporters can be expected to work relentlessly to thwart his plans . but they are unlikely to derail his government . the underlying stability highlighted by mexico ’s post-election crisis is also evident elsewhere in latin america . whatever the potential for a leftward shift this year in some latin american countries , others , including mexico , chile , and brazil , are clearly less vulnerable to the type of populist rule we have seen in venezuela and bolivia .
there is still time to react – by demonstrating strong leadership and prioritizing growth over short-sighted policies – but that time is limited and the clock is ticking . next year will be crucial , for it will mark the end of the current political cycle and the beginning of a new one . a new german government will emerge , european elections , and , at the end of the year , a new european commission . here , it is that political leaders should devote their efforts . no one wants the eu to fail , owing to its citizens ’ disaffection .
colombo – as china ’s economy slows and growth in the developed world remains anemic , governments across asia are working to keep their economies on an upward trajectory . in sri lanka , where i am prime minister , the challenge is to find ways to accelerate our already steady economic growth . one thing is clear : we can not expect the rest of the world to welcome our economic ambitions once it opened arms to china ’s rapid rise as economic power or – cheered in earlier decades on the growth of japan and the so-called asian tigers , including south korea . today , we asians are witnessing , on an almost daily basis , fierce political assaults on the tools and policies that have helped lift hundreds of millions of our citizens out of poverty . indeed , free trade this year seems to be the scapegoat for choice among the world ’s assorted populists and demagogues .
here is where sunni-shiite cooperation comes in . widely unnoticed , iraq ’s sunni and shia centralists have managed in the last few months to form a united parliamentary platform that leaves sectarian tensions behind . more than 100 followers of ayad allawi , al sadr , and others have joined their ranks . this supra-sectarian platform calls for a central government of iraq ’s natural resources and postponement of a looming referendum to settle the status of kirkuk . change within the government is also noteworthy .
political fervor , it seems , has not vanished in rousseau and danton land . so the truth must lie elsewhere : the french are not hopeless about politics ; they are simply waiting for a genuine leader . as matters stand , a case can be made that the french will never come to believe that the state lacks power , globalization , or no globalization . the french still expect greater things from their government than from an integrated europe or boundless world . yes , the french are incorrigible lovers of the welfare state ( they are not the only ones ) .
london – next week , governments will gather in warsaw , poland , for a crucial round of climate negotiations , with both expectations and ambition running at an all-time low . but this need not be the case : the warsaw meeting provides an opportunity to galvanize action on one of the most potent forces driving climate change – the billions of dollars spent by governments on fossil-fuel subsidies . warsaw talks are staging a post on the path to the 2015 united nations climate summit in paris , at which governments will seek to forge an agreement that is preventing dangerous climate change , defined as global warming of more than two degrees celsius . failure would expose future generations to catastrophic climate risks , while trapping millions of people in poverty as a result of more frequent , intense , and protracted droughts , floods , and storms . basic carbon arithmetic illustrates the scale of the problem .
in march 2015 , a letter by the g20 , a group of scientists , environmentalists , and opinion leaders warned that ramping up investment in megaprojects risks irreversible and catastrophic environmental damage . “ each year , we are already consuming about one-and-a-half of the planet ’s worth of resources , ” the authors explained . “ infrastructure choices are needed to alleviate rather than exacerbate this situation . ” similarly , the intergovernmental panel on climate change cautions that “ infrastructure development and long-lived products that lock societies into “ the ” gas-intensive pathways can be difficult or very costly to change . ” and , indeed , the g20 has put in place few social , environmental , or climate-related criteria for the “ wish list ” of mega-projects that each member country will submit to its summit in turkey in november .
the fed , for example , has pledged to keep interest rates low at least until the unemployment rate falls to 6.5 % – a move that has arguably lowered long-term borrowing costs . likewise , mark carney , in his first policy action as governor of the bank of england , has announced forward guidance for short-term interest rates . while the effect of such interest-rate guidance on the economy can not be determined without additional data , there are many arguments in its favor . perhaps the most telling recent example of the central bank , using forward guidance effectively , was european central bank president mario draghi ’s july 2012 announcement that the ecb would do “ whatever it takes ” to ensure the survival of the euro . that pledge alone has stabilized borrowing costs and dramatically reduced interest-rate spreads for struggling eurozone countries .
indeed , just the opposite response is likely – efforts to tighten sanctions further . yet , just as the us adopted a “ bomb and talk approach ” with serbs during the bosnian war ’s dénouement , america must be willing to “ sanction and talk ” when it comes to iran , thereby creating more space for an eventual diplomatic strategy . first , the us should consider establishing diplomatic relations with iran and putting diplomats on the ground . this would not be an easy process , and could well meet considerable iranian resistance . but iranians have diplomatic relations with other members of its principal interlocutor in talks on its nuclear program , sanctions-minded p-5 +1 group ( china , france , germany , russia , the united kingdom , and the us ) , and re-establishing iran-us diplomatic ties would shorten communication lines and close the 44-day chapter of 1979-1981 .
anyone watching the ipl , however tempted to conclude that twenty20 cricket , the “ instant ” form of the game , is actually an american game deliberately rediscovered by indians . other countries followed suit , with tournaments modeled on the ipl springing up throughout the cricketing world . to keen observers , the ipl represented more than the sports league ; it signaled nothing less than the emergence of a new india . in the ipl ’s gligorov , glamour , and excess lay an antidote to the hidebound statist mentality that has produced economic stagnation in india in the past . here was a venture that opened new vistas for businesses and fired young people ’s imaginations to emulate the entrepreneurial energies shown by owners , promoters , players , and fans .
this superficiality results from the fact that , though communism was a thoroughly " modern " notion , modernity in romania goes only skin deep . at the 20th century 's close , romania ( like bulgaria , russia , ukraine , and other heavily " " uyghtized societies " ) appears more like a " neo-feudal state " than a modern society . for here is a state where groups , classes , even individuals struggle for privileges granted , not according to talent and work , but rather according to the status of a group in which one belongs . state banks , state governments , state approved public societies ( trade unions , for example ) , big state enterprises , act little differently in romania today than feudal guilds behaved in medieval europe . at the whim of the state , for example , they can be exonerated from paying taxes or have their posts and work made unquestioned by law .
on the other hand , diplomacy means that the israeli soldier could bring about the release of qassam rockets from gaza into israel – a daily occurrence that challenged the credibility of the new israeli government under prime minister ehud olmert . but the fundamental problem is that , until now , at every historical juncture , palestinians refused to accept compromise and , consequently , failed nation-building . in 1947 , they refused the un partition plan , which called for the establishments of two states in british palestine . in 1993 , after the oslo agreements , the palestinian authority established under yasir arafat became another militarized authoritarian regime , very much like syria and egypt , and did nothing to alleviate the suffering of palestinian refugees . it was this failure that brought hamas to power .
in asia , indonesia may look “ europe ” in its obama craze , but it essentially represents an anomaly , easily lobbying an indonesian brief upbringing . otherwise , and for very different reasons , a majority of asian elites are awaiting the growing possibility of obama ’s victory with some bewilderment and even apprehension . japanese elites , for example , tend to favor continuity over change . in their mind , hard power in the united states is more important than its soft power , and their vision of an “ tied america ” to lead is largely unchanged . for them , the us is above all the strategic counterweight needed to balance china .
canberra – last year , north korea ’s kim jong-un and us president donald trump hurling kindergarten insults at each other – “ rocket man is on a suicide mission , ” trump said ; “ mentally deranged us president kim dotard , ” kim retorted – while threatening to reduce east asia to a post-atomic wasteland . now , in a stunning and dramatic development , both are to meet by may . kim is reportedly willing to denuclearize and eager to talk directly to trump , who has agreed . but optimism about this turn of events must be tempered by cautious realism . north korea is the nuclear problem from hell , and it is the problem of a nuclear war .
nepad , the new partnership for africa ’s development , an organization designed to promote decent and appropriate standards of economic and political development throughout the continent , has been at the heart of this policy . despite its domestic problems and the loss of global visibility that accompanied mandela ’s retirement , south africa continues to view emerging power comparable to that of mandela , say , brazil , india , and nigeria . such powers seek an effective and constructive regional role , and perhaps in some cases a global one . they tend to have proactive and assertive foreign policies and aspire to more than middle-power status and limited niche-style influence enjoyed by canada , sweden , or saudi arabia . south africa seeks a wider and more influential role , reinforced by its obvious standing as a regional hegemon .
it aspires to join the european union , bringing the eu into our three borders , even as the us , too , aspire to join one day . indeed , turkey has never missed an opportunity to present itself as a regional broker . immediately after the soviet union ’s collapse , turkey proposed the black sea economic cooperation . this year , as the american-led effort to mediate a middle east peace settlement began to falter , turkey took the job of mediator in both the israeli-palestinian conflict and the conflict between syria and israel . now , in the immediate wake of the russia-georgian crisis , turkey ’s leaders have stepped forward once again to assume a leadership role in the caucasus .
indeed , across the region , apprehension is mounting that once foreign troops leave , afghanistan will descend again into civil war , ultimately bringing the taliban back to power . that is why “ bringing troops home ” has become the prime objective of western politicians engaged in the region . the west needs to get out before bloodletting starts again in earnest . my fear is that the us has not seen al qaeda or the taliban last . as a neighboring country , india would face disturbing consequences if it returned to power in afghanistan , as would iran , which would not sit idly by if sectarian strife intensified and shia become targets of a resurgent taliban .
and governments must respond to the threats of banks by declaring their willingness to let insolvent banks be judged accordingly . a market economy must rest on the economic principle of profit and loss . an economy with neither bankruptcies nor the rule of law that applies equally to all is not a market economy . the law that applies to all other companies should apply to banks just as well . moreover , governments should guarantee insolvent banks ’ loans to non-financial companies , as well as private customers ’ current , fixed-term , and savings deposits by reforming insolvent laws .
but the gross flow of capital comes from emerging markets to emerging markets , through big banks now implicitly backed by the state in the us and europe . from the perspective of international investors , “ too big to fail ” banks are the perfect places to park their reserves – as long as the sovereign question remains solvent . but what will these banks do with the funds ? when a similar issued in the 1970 ’s – so-called “ recycling of oil surpluses ” – banks in western financial centers extended loans to latin america , communist poland , and communist romania . that was not a good idea , because it led to massive ( for the time ) debt crises of 1982 .
when they give way , disease , despair , and death rush in . but the plagues of transition are more than a health crisis ; they signify a deeper malaise . so put aside the fact that these diseases are infectious and can easily spread , or the idea that the fortunate bear some moral responsibility for the well-being of the poor and the sick , and simply consider the economic consequences of the transition plagues . the world bank calls aids “ the foremost threat to african development . ” companies in south africa stagger from losing so many workers to aids .
but while it would be a strategic mistake for erdoğan to enter putin ’s orbit , plenty of leaders have made strategic errors before . that is why the coming months , when turkey and the eu hash out contentious issues , are so critical . erdoğan ’s post-coup crackdown is far from the only source of tension between turkey and the west , particularly the eu . turkey insists that visa-free travel for turkish citizens visiting the eu , promised by eu governments in january , should be delivered this year . but , with turkey having so far failed to meet agreed conditions , including overhauling its anti-terrorism legislation , that may not happen – an outcome made even more likely by the coup attempt .
as long as palestinians are oppressed and denied a nation-state of their own , conflict will emerge . over the last 13 years , however , netanyahu enthusiastically supported the expansion of jewish settlements in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem . as he well knows , settlements are physical roadblock standing in the way of a contiguous , independent palestinian state . moreover , during netanyahu ’s recent election campaign , he pledged that , if re-elected , he would prevent the establishment of a palestinian state in the west bank by “ controlling the entire region . ” we should take him at his word .
it failed to prevent money from contracting in the early stages of the great depression . heedless of its responsibilities as an emergency lender , it allowed the banking system to collapse . when financial stability hung in the balance in 1933 , reserve banks ’ failure to cooperate to prevent effective action . given such incompetence , it is not surprising that the subsequent reforms were far-reaching . but these reforms went in precisely the opposite direction from today ’s proposed changes : fewer limits on policymakers ’ discretion , more power to the board , and a larger role for the new york fed all to allow the federal reserve system to react more quickly and robustly in a crisis .
pittsburgh – the wall street journal recently ran a front-page article reporting that the “ monetary-policy doves , ” having forecast low inflation in the united states , got the better of the “ hawks , ” who argued that the fed ’s monthly purchases of long-term securities , or so-called quantitative easing ( qe ) , would unleash faster price growth . the report was correct but misleading , for it failed to mention why so little inflation is happening today in the us . were the doves right or just lucky ? the american federal reserve board pumped out trillions of dollars of reserves , but never had so many reserves produced so little monetary growth . neither the hawks nor the doves ( nor anyone else ) expected that .
by reducing rates of unwanted pregnancies , family planning also decreases the number of deaths from unsafe abortions . this is not only good for mothers . reducing high-risk pregnancies , curbing unwanted pregnancies , and spacing births have been shown to decrease newborn and child deaths rates . the guttmacher institute estimates that fully meeting women ’s need for contraception would prevent 600,000 newborn deaths and 500,000 child deaths annually . moreover , cutting birth rates that are very high in many lmics would help to reduce the strain on these countries ’ health-care systems by diminishing the costs of maternal and newborn care and immunization .
the saudis are also recoiling under a barrage of criticism of their wahhabi brand of islam , which is widely blamed for incubating extremism and inspiring terrorism . meanwhile , saudi arabia ’s human-rights record – including denial of elementary rights for women – is under constant scrutiny . against this backdrop , the kingdom is taking the fight against its enemies . king salman bin abdulaziz al saud is the country ’s above-the-fray ruler , but his son , prince mohammad bin salman al saud , currently wields much of the power . as minister of defense , mohammad has pursued saudi policy of backing anti-assad rebels in syria , in concert with turkey , while unleashing a pro-iranian tribesmen ’ war in yemen ( at an enormous humanitarian cost ) .
the answer to the first question is both yes and no . the us has failed to eliminate the taliban from afghanistan , and has completely ruled out the possibility of the country again becoming a haven for terrorists . the ongoing peace talks with the taliban and the impending reduction of america ’s military presence in the country are a clear recognition of this . the american public is war-weary , and president donald trump is keen to declare an end to the longest international conflict in us history before the 2020 us presidential election . at the same time , the us achieved many of its initial core goals .
emerging-market officials will earn accreditation by demonstrating their ability to apply their knowledge practically . the ebrd aims to support training critical mass experts from ten countries in our region , and we believe that certification could become as respected as the qualification held by a chartered financial analyst or project management institute member . just five months ago in london , we hosted the “ ppp days conference ” with the support of other multilateral institutions , the g-20 , and the united nations . we had plenty of experts – some 300 from the 30 countries ’ public and private sectors – attempting to provide a simple question : “ what would it take to double private infrastructure investment in emerging markets ? ” one useful tool in the effort is “ infrascope , ” a benchmarking index created by the economist intelligence unit that assesses emerging-market countries ’ capacity across the asia-pacific region , latin america , africa , eastern europe , and former soviet republics in the commonwealth of independent states to deliver sustainable ppps .
america ’s efforts , led by special envoy george mitchell , have made it clear that israel ’s current ruling coalition is incapable of doing the minimum required for peace . the obama administration staked its reputation on getting israelis and palestinians to agree at least on security and borders . the results are mixed , at best . palestinians complied with all israeli and international security requirements , while binyamin netanyahu ’s israeli government , which gives lip-service to the two-state solution , has yet to elucidate where israel ’s borders will be . meanwhile , the israeli government wants to continue building settlements in the occupied areas , in total violation of international law , and minimal peace requirements detailed in the “ roadmap ” sponsored by the quartet ( the us , the un , the european union , and russia ) .
then contagion sets in , as increasingly risk-averse investors , particularly developed-country investors , start withdrawing funds from other countries to cover the losses they incurred in the economies where crises originated . with that , crises spill across borders , affecting entire regions , or even the entire class of emerging economies . that is what happened in latin america in the 1980s , when mexico ’s moratorium on external debt servicing in august 1982 sparked a region-wide debt crisis . the same thing occurred in east asia in the 1990s : the crisis began in thailand in july 1997 with the collapse of the baht , and quickly spread to other east asian countries . it became a broad-based emerging-economy crisis in august 1998 , after russia imposed a moratorium on payments by commercial banks to foreign creditors .
as a result , prominent economists , including senior staff at the international monetary fund , have become increasingly critical of oda in recent years , claiming that failure to contribute to economic growth is being ignored . but un research makes clear that if blatantly politically driven aid is excluded from consideration , the evidence points to a robust positive relationship . unfortunately , despite recent efforts to enhance aid effectiveness , progress has been modest at best , not least because average financing for projects has fallen by more than two-thirds . debt is another side of the development dilemma . over the last decade , the imf-world bank has heavily indebted poor countries initiative and its extension , the supplementary multilateral debt-relief initiative , made significant progress on debt sustainability .
denver – for many foreign audiences , the united states ’ primary elections for the 2012 presidential vote – which will , alas , continue to rage in the summer – must be a frightening display of what americans and their leaders have no idea about foreign policy . debate after debate reveals that neither of the candidates seeking to challenge president barack obama is particularly interested in the details of any of america ’s relationships around the globe , not to mention the crises that dot the international landscape , especially those that do not involve us troops . indeed , ignorance seems to be a source of strength for the candidates still in the race . when jon huntsman , an early contender , displayed some genuine intellectual heft by making some useful points in dealing with china , punctuated by a brief display of his own mastery of mandarin , some other candidates responded with derision . to have even known the chinese perspective , it seems , disqualifying for huntsman , who soon ended his candidacy .
i helped launch the first safe schools initiative , following boko haram ’s abduction of 276 schoolgirls in chibok , nigeria , last april . so far , a fund has mobilized $ 30 million from businesses , the nigerian government , and international donors , and a multi-donor trust fund has been established at the un . nigeria ’s initiative focuses on school and community interventions , with special measures for the most at-risk and vulnerable children . the agenda includes building better school fortifications , connecting schools to police stations by mobile telecommunications , and creating community security groups – consisting of teachers , parents , police , community leaders , and young people themselves – to promote safe zones for education . the first set of schools has now received funding , with the first cohort of the most at-risk girls relocating to government schools in safer regions of the country .
luxembourg – as world leaders gather in madrid for the united nations climate change conference ( cop25 ) , they must address more than future targets for reducing greenhouse-gas emissions . they must also address the harm to people and livelihoods that climate change is already causing . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
this favorable performance led private forecasters and government officials to forecast continued robust growth in 2011 , with higher output , employment , and incomes leading to further increases in consumer spending and self-sustaining recovery . a one-year cut in the payroll tax rate by two percentage points was enacted to lock in this favorable outlook . unfortunately , the projected recovery in consumer spending did not materialize . the rise in food and energy prices outpaced the gain in nominal wages , causing real average weekly earnings to decline in january , while the continued fall in home prices reduced wealth for the majority of households . as a result , real personal consumer expenditures rose at an annual rate of just about 1 % in january , down from the previous quarter of the four % increase .
instead , we are left with conventional microeconomic measures to prepare people for algorithmic employment – that is , using big data to match people with the jobs they will need to remain consumers . again , we are told that future labor-market participants should be equipped with job-targeted education and portable social-security pots to help them jump from one automated workplace to another . in the case of education , the report calls on employers and colleges to work together to develop talent “ pipelines . ” for example , it highlights miami dade college ’s “ programs in animation and game development , ” working with companies like pixar animation studios and google . “ likewise , toyota ” has built its own advanced manufacturing “ manufacturing ” program to provide a pathway for students seeking careers at the company . ”
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . last year ’s united nations report on progress toward achieving the sdgs showed that the number of people facing hunger actually rises , as is the number of malaria cases . moreover , according to the intergovernmental panel on climate change , the consequences of climate change are emerging much faster than anticipated .
québec will invest more than $ 3.3 billion toward that goal by 2020 , contributing to its economy ’s growth . the basque country has established a program called local agenda 21 , designed to support the creation of local sustainability plans across the region . as a result of the program , almost all basque municipalities have adopted such plans , consisting of more than 25,000 projects in areas like mobility , waste management , and economic development . these local plans are now driving sustainable development in the region , with knowledge sharing among municipalities laying the foundation for further progress . meanwhile , south australia has developed the most supportive regulatory framework for renewable-energy investment in australia , enabling the renewables ’ share of power generation to rise from virtually zero in 2003 to almost 40 % today .
in the 1930 ’s , the countries that raised their tariffs and tightened their quotas were those with the least ability to manage their exchange rates – namely , those that remained on the gold standard . in 1931 , after britain and some two dozen other countries suspended gold convertibility and allowed their currencies to depreciate , countries that stuck to the gold standard found themselves in a deflationary vice . in desperate efforts to do something – anything to defend their economies , they turned to protectionism , imposing “ exchange-rate dumping ” duties , and import quotas to offset the loss of competitiveness caused by their own increasingly overvalued currencies . but trade restrictions were poor substitutes for domestic reflationary measures , because they did little to arrest the downward spiral of output and prices . they did nothing to stabilize rickety banking systems .
madrid – since its inception in oslo almost two decades ago , the israeli-palestinian peace process has been stymied by both sides ’ dysfunctional political systems . hostage to an impossible coalition and the free-lance movement , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s administration is being seriously compromised . his palestinian counterparts hardly seem to be in a better position . today , the clique that surrounds palestinian president mahmoud abbas embodies the bitter deception that the peace process that began with the oslo agreement has meant for the palestinians . moreover , the palestinian authority has come either to represent the palestinians ’ majority or to govern by democratic means .
this has contributed to a growing sense of hopelessness – particularly among men – manifested in rising non-participation in the labor force , aggravated health problems , drug abuse , elevated suicide rates , and anti-government sentiment . countries that experience high and rising economic inequality often face political instability and policy dysfunction . as policymaking becomes erratic , lose credibility , and becomes choked by gridlock , growth suffers , and the chances of achieving a prosperous form of inclusiveness decline . the result is a vicious circle , in which government finds it increasingly difficult to do what is needed . but government intervention is critical to addressing the problems facing developed-country workers today , which markets can not address alone .
tribe can be a club , clan , or nation . before world war ii , soccer clubs often had an ethnic or religious component : tottenham hotspur in london was “ jewish , ” while arsenal was “ irish . ” vestiges of these markings remain : amsterdam ’s ajax still taunted provincial opponents as the “ jew club . ” and glasgow clubs , celtic and rangers , remain divided by religious affiliation , celtic being catholic and protestant rangers . but a common race or religion is not essential .
it is also spending more equitably . in a new report to be launched at the imf-world bank spring meetings , save children documents a glaring gap between health risks , which is heavily skewed toward the poorest children , and the benefits of public spending are often skewed in favor of better-off households . this flies in the face of a central pledge governments made when they signed on to the sdgs : that those countries furthest from the targets would benefit the fastest progress . in the language of the agenda , “ nobody should be left behind . ” the world bank could help to improve accountability for fulfilling that commitment by working with the un and national agencies to monitor and report on the pace at which disparities in key indicators , from mortality to education , narrowed .
two examples suffice to illustrate the impact : the price of rice tripled , while electricity consumption is down two-thirds from two decades ago . my personal memories of north korea , now almost ten years old , are of a poor and depressed country . pyongyang , the capital , was dark and deserted , illuminated by cavalcade , taking us from official housing to opera homes , only to return to darkness beyond us . kim jong-il was greeted with the same fervor when he entered the opera house that today marks public mourning of his death . my trip took place in april 2002 , a somewhat optimistic time .
but there are other gender-specific targets to consider . the best way to reduce violence against women , lift them out of poverty , empower them to be full and equal members of society is to break the cycle of early marriage and childbirth . such large-scale change is not easy to achieve ; but if girls can stay in school longer and have decent job opportunities available after graduate , they are likely to marry and bear children later . in rural india , for example , recruiters for well-paid back-office jobs have randomly visited selected villages over a period of three years . female employment has risen , and women aged 15-21 have been 5-6 % less likely to marry or give birth over this period .
vice foreign minister kim kye-gwan delivered a furious response to the north : “ we do n’t hide our feeling of repugnance toward him . ” the north was not interested in a dialogue aimed at forcing “ unilateral nuclear abandonment . ” the “ world knows too well that our country is neither libya nor iraq , which has met miserable fates . ” though trump has distanced himself from bolton ’s remarks , vice president mike pence warned three weeks later that if north korea does not make a deal , it would actually meet with libya ’s fate . choe son hui , vice minister of foreign affairs , responded by threatening a “ nuclear-to-nuclear showdown ” if washington stuck to “ unlawful and outrageous ” belligerence .
after nearly 15 years of unprecedented growth – interrupted only by a brief slowdown in 2000-2001 – the united states accumulated huge stocks of foreign liabilities , equivalent to 25 % of its gdp . with the current-account deficit now exceeding 5 % of gdp , america ’s foreign debt is rising fast . but no country can accumulate debt forever – and what can not last sooner or later must end . in early 1985 , when america ’s current-account deficit reached $ 120 billion , about a third of today ’s level at current prices , the rest of the world stopped financing it . the outcome was a sudden fall in the value of the dollar , which depreciated by 50 % against the deutschemark .
princeton – the united states has moved from the high point of a presidential election to the low of a political sex scandal in one short week . for many americans , the election demonstrated what is best about the country , only to follow the sadly familiar process of knocking heroes off their pedestals . for many non-americans , the election brought barack obama ’s welcome and reassuring victory , while david petraeus ’s resignation as director of the cia was an unnecessary , self-inflicted wound . in fact , both the election and petraeus ’s resignation are pieces of a larger whole : an america that lives up to its promises . the election reminded many americans that the us is a country committed to and capable of progress – of moving forward toward an ideal vision .
the first casualty would be whatever small scope remains for international policy coordination . the second would be the international monetary system . in fact , one key reason for the international monetary fund ’s creation was to monitor exchange-rate developments with the explicit objective of preventing beggar-thy-neighbor policies . this is why the swiss move comes as a surprise . it is true that the franc appreciated in real terms by 8 % since the crisis began in august 2007 .
the call by björn höcke , afd state leader in thuringia for an “ 180-degree turn ” from post-world war ii tradition of atoning for the crimes of the nazi era , and afd deputy leader alexander gauland ’s reference to “ disposing of germany ’s ” minister of integration of turkish origin in anatolia , “ repelled voters . ” likewise , die linke ’s call to abolish nato , together with its cozying up to russia , left the party politically toxic in much of western germany . the second commonly cited cause of germany ’s resilience to populism is its economic strength . the country ’s unemployment rate is currently at a record low , with gdp having grown by almost 10 % since 2013 . add to that a well-functioning welfare system , and it is clear why the inequality-focused outrage that fueled voter revolts elsewhere is gaining little traction in germany .
enormous fines have been imposed on independent publications , broadcasters , and bloggers . china and turkey – both olympic-level jailers of journalists – have ramped up their repression in recent years . just last month , russian president vladimir putin signed new laws authorizing the punishment of individuals and online media for spreading so-called fake news and information that “ disrespects ” the state . us president donald trump is trying to go in the same direction . his constant branding of journalists as “ liars ” and “ enemies of the people ” echoes the nazis ’ preferred label for the media : lügenpresse ( lying news press ) .
without the benefits of trade , much of rural africa struggles at subsistence levels . bush might think that america is doing a lot to help overcome these problems , but the truth is that american aid is minimal . blair ’s africa commission , like the un millennium project , finds that africa needs about $ 50 billion per year in aid by 2010 . america ’s fair share of the total is around $ 15 billion per year . yet official american aid to africa is just $ 3 billion a year , and much of that covers salaries for american consultants rather than investment in africa ’s needs .
north korea is now the ninth state with nuclear weapons , joining the five permanent members of the un security council , israel , india , and pakistan . the danger is that the us may quickly be approaching tipping points . how the world responds to north korea is likely to affect the calculations of other would-be nuclear powers , including iran . maintaining peace in a world in which literally dozens of fingers are on nuclear triggers will be far more difficult – and the consequences of failure far more destructive . initial reactions to north korea ’s nuclear test have been uniformly critical , culminating ( thus far ) in un security council resolution 1718 condemning the test demands that north korea resume full cooperation with the international atomic energy agency and impose a range of military , political , and economic sanctions .
industrialist wilbur ross , commerce secretary ban ki-moon , has been vocal in his desire to abrogate america ’s “ dumb ” trade deals . peter navarro , an economics professor at the university of california at irvine , will be director of the national trade council – the new white house policy shop to be set on par with the national security council and the national economic council . navarro is one of america ’s most extreme hawks . titles of his two most recent books – death by china ( 2011 ) and crouching tiger : what china ’s militarism means for the world ( 2015 ) – speak volumes about his tabloid-level biases . ross and navarro have also been co-authors of the economic-policy position paper published on trump ’s campaign web site , which stretched any semblance of credibility .
but , because policymakers constantly threatened to end qe , markets inferred that the ecb was not committed to sustained stimulus . the euro-dollar exchange rate thus barely moved ; in fact , the euro appreciated against a basket of major currencies . eurozone inflation became “ de-anchored ” from monetary-policy decisions . the ecb then declared victory , and prematurely withdrew qe just as the eurozone economy was slowing down . the clash of interests among eurozone member states is straightforward .
experience suggests that importing laws and the rule of law rarely works well . western law arrived for centuries , even after european empires retreated , laws were still exported to foster development in post-colonial countries . in many cases , however , these imported laws were ignored , selectively enforced , or complied only in form , not substance . american antitrust laws when transplanted to japan after world war ii by general macarthur , for example , led to only six criminal prosecutions in thirty years .
but other firms have been accused of having more interest in developing a “ biobank ” of samples and data than they have in genetic testing . as jesse reynolds of the center for genetics and society writes , “ just as newspapers ’ traditional business model is to extract revenues not from readers but from advertisers , personal genomics companies see potential profits not from consumers themselves but from compiled databases – probably in the form of selling access to them . ” drug companies and other firms may well be eager to buy biobanks on which they can test their products for differential responses according to patients ’ genetic make-up . this new development , called “ pharmacogenetics , ” aims to deliver better-calibrated dosages and more effective treatments . there is certainly nothing wrong with this , but it does seem odd that customers are effectively paying a firm for privilege donating their dna to its database .
european banks holding greek government debt could keep pretending that it is worth its full value . and the european central bank would have fewer excuses to refuse greek bonds as collateral . the question is whether the coupons change – possibly coupled with the extension of maturities – would be enough to stabilize the greek economy and restore growth . even with german-level interest rates , greece would have to run a primary surplus of at least 2 % of gdp – still quite large , and far from today ’s deficit . and , with the face value of its debt unchanged , the psychological drag on expectations and investment might linger .
excessive fiscal and monetary expansion made these economies unstable . current-account deficits have grown , resulting in frequent foreign-exchange crises . the combination of social polarization , inadequate institutions , and weak economic fundamentals has made it difficult for even reform-minded governments to escape the short-termism trap and lay the groundwork for long-term development . in this context , “ neoliberal ” reforms – such as the international monetary fund ’s rapid economic opening and financial liberalization – have made economies even more vulnerable to external shocks . venezuela is a case in point .
movies produced for consumers ’ sexual gratification expose cultural norms of restraint , transgression , and otherness . in fact , portugal is so specifically tuned to consumers ’ tastes that shifts can indicate changes in a society almost immediately . interestingly , many purveyors of pornography initially thought that better quality video would make their product more desirable . nevertheless , high production values seem to have been actually less popular . so a “ casual ” style of production was adopted , similar to the design of worn and ripped jeans .
but he never aspired to lead the country . former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi and former thai prime minister thaksin shinawatra have done – and still do . neither the clown nor the tycoon is well suited to be a democratic leader . the question is which is worse . clowns have always played a role in politics .
eventually , cities and urban areas that drive the bulk of new wealth creation provoke counter-movements . if they price out or otherwise exclude those who earn less , they will sacrifice the openness that made them attractive in the former . so , if they are to survive and thrive in today ’s egalitarian political climate , bold solutions will be needed . during the previous period of urban-based dynamism , rich merchant families built low-rent housing that was then allocated to the poor . one such project , fuggerei complex in augsburg , germany , still provides low rent social housing to this day .
georges clémenceau , jean jaurès , and raymond poincaré , at the beginning of the twentieth century , did not pander to the almost half of the electorate that , during the dreyfus affair , exiled themselves from the republic . nor did charles de gaulle have qualms about telling french algeria ’s proponents that , ultimately , he did not understand them . nor did pierre mendès france in the 1950s hesitate to tell communists that he did not want their votes to support his government . france now needs to recall these great moments in its republican tradition , holding them up as a model for today ’s leaders . for what will be needed to hold the territories that the republic almost lost to the fn is political courage of a sort that , for the moment , is in short supply .
and we know that those landings created a unique bond between our continents . that bond remains vital to preserving our values and our security . but , after the cold war , many assumed that its institutional embodiment – the north atlantic treaty organization – would fade away . it did not , because our bond is based not just on common threats , but on shared ideals . it could no more fade away than our desire for freedom could wane .
china itself does not favor remaining time-warped in the maoist 1960 ’s , when discussing this issue . the chinese have been so smart in so many areas . they devised the “ one country , two systems ” formula for hong kong . is it really beyond their political system ’s capacity to work out a formula for tibet that recognizes its cultural and religious autonomy within the chinese state ? i hope that this issue does not derail the chinese effort to use the olympics as an opportunity to show the world that their country has emerged again as one of the world ’s leaders .
sarajevo – ever since the double calamity of 2016 , the united kingdom ’s brexit referendum and us president donald trump ’s election have been widespread anxiety about a “ global wave ” of populism , with hand-wringing over the follies of so-called outright democracy . in the uk , voters have been asked to answer an overly simplistic in-or-out question ; in the united states , 2016 republican party primaries have passed over to irresponsible voters and radical activists . since then , calls to empower the “ gatekeepers , ” a polite way of saying that the unwashed masses should be kept as far away from political decision-making as possible . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
berkeley – to solve the problem , it is not enough to know what to do . in fact , you need to implement the solution – and be willing to change course if it turns out that you have not quite known as you thought you do . that is the message of two recent books that tell you all you need to know about the 2008 financial crisis : what caused it , what can be done to prevent it from recurring , and why those things have yet to be done . the first book is shifts and shocks , by the conservative british journalist martin wolf , who begins by cataloguing the major shifts that set the stage for the economic disaster that continues to shape the world today . his starting point is the huge wealth rise among the world ’s richest 0.1 % and 0.01 % , and the consequent pressures for people , governments , and companies to take on an increasingly unsustainable level of debt .
this has its benefits , but it also carries serious risks – beginning with the loss of journalistic standards of excellence , like those typically enforced within established media organizations . without traditional institutional media gatekeepers , political discourse no longer rests on a shared set of facts . the second feature of the digital information age – a direct byproduct of democratization – is information socialization . rather than receiving our information directly from institutional gatekeepers , who , despite often-flawed execution , were fundamentally committed to meeting editorial standards , today we acquire it through peer-to-peer sharing . such peer networks can elevate content , based on factors like clicks or engagement among friends , rather than accuracy or importance .
moreover , heavy tv viewing has contributed to social fragmentation . time that has been used to be spent together in the community is now spent alone on the screen . robert putnam , america ’s leading scholar of declining community sense , has found that tv viewing is central to the decline of “ social capital , ” the trust that binds communities together . americans simply trust each other less than they did a generation ago . to be sure , many other factors are at work , but the “ nativist ” social atomization should not be understated .
in fact , this dangerous and irresponsible action is yet another key sign that china ’s rise as a global power lacks any guarantee that it will be a peaceful nation once it grows strong . flatly contradicts the repeated assurances by china ’s leaders that china ’s rise will bring only “ harmony ” and peace to the international community . lurking behind china ’s ambition in space is the spirit of the cold war , which continues to permeate the inner circles of high command of military power whose adversary is undeniably the united states . with the collapse of the soviet communist regime , the us continues to enjoy a dominant role in space exploration for peaceful and scientific development . but , since the 1980 ’s , the us has been ambivalent about the ultimate military and civilian utility of its space efforts .
illegality and wrongdoing have been artfully cloaked as incontrovertible , science-tested natural law , “ the survival of the fittest . ” every time a new , powerful scientific formulation appears , it must go through a period of abusive application . today , it is the turn of molecular genetics . temperament , obesity , heart disease , intelligence , homosexuality , or criminal behavior : everything is said to reside within genes . distinguished scientists proclaim that our very destiny is inscribed on dna molecule , and science popularizers join exultant choir , asserting that human beings are nothing but “ programmed ” entities .
around its picturesque squares , every cobblestone and ornamental façade has borne silent witness to the bloodletting that accompanied the rise of empires and fall . yet lviv is also where one can find hope for europe ’s promise . lviv is a deeply anti-russian and pro-european city ; but , for five days each summer , it hosts the alpha jazz festival , sponsored by the bank of russia . at a time when russia and ukraine still have a very large stake in war , policymakers , local citizens , members of the ukrainian diaspora , and even some russians pack the streets of lviv to celebrate world-class jazz . beyond its vital cultural life and geographic location , ukraine is strategically important to the west .
palo alto – it is still too soon to gauge president barack obama ’s full economic impact on implementing and proposing policies , but preliminary reading indicates limited short-term benefits at large long-term costs . the administration is exploiting the crisis atmosphere to enact a vast agenda that would reengineer the american economy , from autos and financial services to health care , energy , and income distribution . obama outsourced the details of the $ 787 billion fiscal stimulus to congress , and , no surprise , the house barons stuffed it with pork and social engineering . several months later , only 4 % of the funds were spent , and the federal government brow-beating state governments – demanding , for example , that california rescind a small pay cut for some unionized workers , or lose $ 7 billion in stimulus funds . ( intervening in contractual relations ex post to enforce union demands is an emerging characteristic of the administration ) .
just as europeans know well , there is no way to build a wall in the mediterranean . moreover , it is worrying that the trump administration hardly ever talks to upholding the post-war liberal international order . instead , it views the world as a zero-sum strategic competition , in which the us should look out only for itself . unfortunately , in a world without common institutions to restrain sovereign states from escalating conflicts with one another , the risks of all-out war will increase substantially . to be sure , the us claims to be stepping up its commitment to european security .
the old model served both sides well for three decades . china ’s growth was driven more by labor-intensive exports , through technology transfers and knowledge from the us and other western countries . this , combined with massive chinese public and private investment ( enabled by high – and , more recently , by excessive – savings ) , underpinned rising incomes for millions of chinese . meanwhile , america ’s consumer benefited enormously from falling relative prices of manufactured goods in the tradable side of the us economy . accordingly , american employment shifted to higher-value-added activities , in turn supporting higher incomes in america , too .
a profound change in america ’s strategic priorities under president donald trump demands that europeans revisit long-held assumptions about their collective defense . this is not the first time that nato seemed to be on its last legs . before 2014 , many arrived at the same conclusion , when the alliance had little to focus on beyond the mission in afghanistan . when russia annexed crimea and brought war to eastern ukraine , it breathed new life into nato . then came trump , whose administration pulled the rug out of europe under the feet of the us , abandoned american leadership within the rules-based international system , and pursued a nationalist , protectionist , and unilateralist foreign policy .
first , fiscal-stimulus policies currently pushing america ’s annual growth rate above its 2 % potential are unsustainable . by 2020 , the stimulus will run out , with a modest fiscal drag pulling growth from 3 % to slightly below 2 % . second , because the stimulus was ill-timed , america ’s economy is overheating now , with inflation rising above target . the american federal reserve will therefore continue to raise the federal funds rate from its current 2 % to at least 3.5 % by 2020 , and will likely push up short – and long-term interest rates , like the american dollar . meanwhile , inflation is also rising in other key economies , with rising oil prices contributing to additional inflationary pressures .
in fact , us and british troops may have only themselves to blame . increased sand drift was one of the effects noted during and after the first gulf war . this is because the desert in the region normally has crust , what arabs call “ desert skin , ” consisting of sand and clay particles that have been put together or sintered by heat and sun . sometimes this crust is strong enough to carry a person and sometimes not , much like the hard ice crust that develops on snow climates . under crust , sand particles are loose .
other women , such as his self-proclaimed mistress judith campbell , reportedly had sexual relationships with mafia figures as well . the sense of entitlement that sustained such male fecklessness has been steadily eroded ever since – a process that , like so much in american culture , has played out on television . popular series like “ good wife ” show the pain and suffering of political spouses , who are expected to keep stiff upper lip , and ladylike demeanor in the face of behavioral double standards . similarly , the series of “ mad men , ” with its dashing advertising executives consuming women like lunchtime cocktails , plumbs emptiness , and destructiveness of early-1960 ’s male sexual prerogative . this reconsideration of male sexual privilege and irresponsibility in the 1960s occurred in other arenas as well – reinforcing kennedy ’s transformation from charming playboy to dangerously compulsive predator .
one major truth of the past year is that financial-market problems lie not just with hedge funds – which are the largest and least regulated gamblers – but with good old commercial banks showing uncanny ability to create trouble by over-risky gambling , whether in loans to emerging markets or by ltcm . the banks that lent huge sums , mostly unsecured , to ltcm , are the same ones that put in roughly $ 175 billion of short-term loans to five east asian developing countries ( indonesia , korea , malaysia , the philippines , thailand ) , and then abruptly reversed gear , yanked out tens of billions of loans in 1997 and 1998 . amazingly , chase manhattan reports that it had exposure to some $ 32 billion in loans and derivatives at ltcm , roughly 2 % of the bank ’s total loan and credit exposure to just one hedge fund ! ltcm also illustrates some truths about financial-market crises . when push came to shove , with ltcm on the brink of collapse , the us federal reserve simply did not let “ market forces
cambridge – public-private cooperation or coordination is receiving considerable attention nowadays . a plethora of centers for study in business and government relations have been created , with researchers producing a large literature on how to design , analyze , and evaluate public-private partnerships . even the world economic forum has been transformed into “ an international organization for public-private cooperation . ” private-private coordination , of course , has been the essence of economics for the last 250 years . while adam smith began us on the optimistic belief that an invisible hand would take care of most coordination issues , in the intervening period , economists discovered all kinds of market failures , informational imperfections , and incentive problems that gave rise to rules , regulation , and other forms of government and societal intervention .
the president ’s daughter , ivanka trump , is spearheading the effort . while it is easy to be cynical ( some say that the new program is just an excuse to cut funding from existing retraining programs ) , the idea that digital platforms can massively improve re-education and training is a good one . but while the trump administration has reinforced america ’s long-term growth potential in some ways , the other side of the ledger is rather grim . for starters , a wide range of studies – from the late economist david landes to more recent research by mit ’s daron acemoglu and the university of chicago ’s james a. robinson – find that institutions and political culture are the single most important determinants of long-term growth . recovery from the damage trump is inflicting on us institutions and political culture may take years ; if so , the economic costs could be substantial .
most economists now believe that russia can not maintain annual gdp growth at a rate above 2 % without another sustained rise in oil prices . but 2 % growth ( respectable rates for an advanced economy ) would represent a major blow to russia ’s standing and putin ’s personal prestige , and could endanger domestic stability if jobs disappear in critical manufacturing sectors . putin is perplexed about how to counter the threat posed by slow growth . so far , his main proposal has been the “ eurasian union ” – an expanded version of the current customs union among russia , belarus , and kazakhstan . this would provide a platform to re-establish trade , transport , and other linkages among former soviet countries , and thus capture regional markets for russian products , guarantee russian jobs , and re-assert russian political influence in its old neighborhood .
the ecb , quite sensibly , wants all of the potential horrors to be visible before the takeover – to avoid being blamed . with national supervisors often inclined to present a rosy picture of their countries ’ institutions , no longer in charge , one can hope that the assessment will be more robust than the earlier stress tests undertaken under the auspices of the european banking authority ( eba ) . those tests , unlike their equivalent in the united states , have failed to rebuild trust . several banks that have passed with flying colors were soon obliged to raise new capital . but the creation of the european banking union has not been the only important change to european financial regulation since the crisis .
not all succeeded ; but the successes ( germany , for example ) far outweigh the failures ( see greece ) . the key to ensuring europe ’s social-security systems ’ future is to be seen , and thus its social model , faster growth . and , again , it is difficult to see how more europe would improve the situation . the obstacles to growth are well known . the reason is quite simple : if there were a politically easy way to generate growth , it would already be implemented .
many state-owned firms were privatized for ten times the sums that had been yielded in asset sales under edmetic shevardnadze ’s previous government . but an utter lack of transparency allowed russian companies to be privatized , and their subsidiaries registered in third countries to snap up most of the new offerings . typical was the russian holding company promyslennye investory ( industrial investors ) , which managed to acquire a major gold mine and then half of the plant that produced gold alloys . gazprom ’s main foreign-policy instrument in georgia is gazprom , the state-controlled gas monopoly . gazprom ’s aim is to control not only georgia ’s gas industry , but also the only pipeline that feeds russian gas to georgia and armenia .
as always , the main victims are civilians caught in the crossfire . renewed fighting , coming eight months after a promising peace initiative known as the “ goma agreement , ” implies more civilian deaths and little chance of normality returning to the eastern congo . yet , even at a time when fighting is less intense congo suffers from the indirect effects of war . a mortality survey conducted by the international rescue committee ( irc ) and released earlier this year demonstrates that this conflict is the world ’s most deadly crisis since world war ii : an estimated 5.4 million people have died as a consequence of the war and its lingering effects in the last decade . today , a quarter of the world ’s population is on the run , almost half of them on rebel-controlled territory , and almost no access to aid .
henry kissinger once said , “ peace can be achieved only through hegemony or a balance of power . ” the same might perhaps be said of trade , or even of globalization itself . it is no accident that the two great eras of globalization – the decades leading up to world war i and the last 75 years – have been characterized by a balance of power and hegemony , respectively . of course , trade requires more than the absence of conflict . like all economic activity , it flourishes when property rights are respected , taxation is efficient and purposeful , letters of credit are honored , tariffs , and other barriers are removed , and so forth .
for small and medium-size enterprises , externships provide much-needed creative manpower . for larger companies , they are avenues for corporate citizenship and innovation . when properly integrated into a student ’s education , externships can provide a competitive edge on university application essays and at campus or alumni interviews that admissions committees increasingly use to distinguish twenty-first-century leaders from competing hordes of top-scoring test-takers . externships offer transparency and accountability for educators , and they can imbue a spirit of student fearlessness . our education system can no longer afford to wall itself off the industry ’s world .
but several million americans – black , white , and hispanic – now live in per capita income of less than $ 2 a day essentially the same standard that the world bank uses to define destitution-level poverty in india or africa . finding shelter in the united states on the fact that incomes are so difficult that $ 2-a-day poverty is almost certainly much worse in the us than $ 2-a-day poverty in india or africa . beyond that , america ’s much-vaunted equality of opportunity is under threat . towns and cities that have lost their factories to globalization have also lost their tax base , finding it hard to keep quality schools – the escape route for the next generation . elite schools recruit the wealthy to pay their bills , and court minorities to redress centuries of discrimination ; but this no doubt fosters resentment among the white working class , whose children find no place in this brave new world .
once a company identifies which users have the most influence – well-known bloggers , for example – it may offer them better treatment , in the hope that they will recommend service . web startups may even want to check their users ’ profiles on angel investors ’ angel list database , viewing them as a potential source of funding . others might use services like intercom to gain insight into their users ’ interests – from their music preferences to their favorite hobhobbies – to offering more personalized services . indeed , many online services now offer to link users with facebook friends or linkedin contacts , or recommend activities or restaurants based on past behavior or current location . some people do not want this kind of attention , whether because they are already well-known personalities trying to fend off adoring fans or mooches , or simply because they are uncomfortable with unknown entities that know so much about them .
french catholics now feel as though their historically privileged position is under attack – by the rise of islam and islamist-inspired terrorist attacks , and by legislation that increasingly challenged their way of life . for many conservative catholics , same-sex marriage was a tipping point , while left-wing catholics find themselves crowded out by the right . french politics has no analogue to america ’s alt-right milieu – with its conspiracy theories , talk shows , online trolling , and fake news – that fueled trump ’s campaign . but fillon ’s supporters , too , reject multiculturalism and responded to their status anxiety by dismissing expertise . with france becoming less catholic and the us becoming more diverse , their “ zombie ” armies ’ political power decay ; but , as trump ’s election and fillon ’s political ascendance have shown , they can not be written off just yet .
for better or worse , our central banks manage the quantity and flow of money by withdrawing or adding paper assets to the stock held by private banks . when they want to stimulate economic activity , central banks buy from private banks ’ commercial loans , mortgages , deposits , and other assets . the banks then have more cash to lend . and vice versa , when the authorities want to cool down the economy . but the more successful libra becomes , the more money people transfer from their bank account to their libra wallet , and the less able central banks will be to stabilize the economy .
with the 2003 american invasion of iraq , french-american relations reached a low point . the bush administration felt betrayed by french diplomatic tactics at the united nations , while french president jacques chirac felt confirmed in his mistrust of the sole superpower and his call for a multipolar world . today , on the eve of the french presidential election , opinion polls show that three-quarters of french voters believe that france should distance itself from the united states . despite a long history of alliances dating back to the american revolution , and including two world wars , france has always had a rather ambivalent attitude toward the us , and the iraq war was not the first time that a controversial security policy undercut america ’s attractiveness in france . polls show similar reactions after the suez crisis of 1956 , the vietnam war of the late 1960 ’s and early 1970 ’s , and the deployment of intermediate range missiles in europe in the early 1980 ’s .
they can do so in a variety of ways , such as by investing in education , funding scientific and technological research , and building efficient infrastructure . tax competition is not the way to go , not least because it reduces the revenues needed to make such investments , particularly in developing countries , which the international monetary fund report 2015 loses on more than $ 200 billion per year due to tax avoidance by multinational corporations . when countries create tax regimes that are effectively designed to steal tax revenues from others , the result is also less money for education , health care , poverty-reduction programs , and climate-change measures . this should not be allowed , and multinational corporations should stop adding to the problem by threatening to leave countries unless taxes are cut . after all , a basic principle of corporate social responsibility is that firms should pay their fair share of taxes wherever they operate .
more importantly , the rapid expansion of etfs coincided with bull markets . index performance dictated security selection , and asset allocation meant little more than piling into stocks , bonds , and credit . but those days are probably over . further sustained market advances are unlikely , given stretched stock and bond valuations , slowing economic and earnings growth , and heightened political and policy uncertainty . broad market returns are likely to be lower , with episodes of volatility probably more frequent .
cambridge – economics teaches that measuring the wellbeing of the individual is the quantity and variety of goods that it or she can consume . consumption possibilities are in turn maximized by providing firms with the freedom they need to take advantage of new technologies , the division of labor , economies of scale , and mobility . consumption is the goal ; production is the means . markets , rather than communities , are unit and object to analysis . no one can deny that this consumer – and market-centric vision of the economy has produced plenty of fruit .
fragmentation – meaning that the internet is ending – is a real threat . some estimates put the internet ’s economic contribution to global gdp as high as $ 4.2 trillion in 2016 . a fragmented “ splinternet ” would be very costly to the world , but that is one of the possible futures outlined last month in the global commission ’s report on internet governance , chaired by former swedish prime minister carl bildt . the internet now links nearly half the world ’s population , with another billion people – as well as some 20 billion devices – forecast to be connected in the next five years . but further expansion is not guaranteed .
that sounded like pleasant experience – perhaps learning experience – for young men who would otherwise be idle and unemployed . but it was not a great inspiration for the future , which may help to explain why roosevelt ’s new deal was unable to end america ’s economic malaise . by contrast , the american economy ’s apparent relative strength today may reflect some highly visible recent inspirations . the fracking revolution , widely viewed as originating in the us , helped lower energy prices and eliminated america ’s dependence on foreign oil . likewise , much of the rapid advance in communications in recent years reflects innovations – smartphone and tablet hardware and software , for example – that have been indigenous to the us .
and roughly 445 million people will need improved access to safe water supplies – part of the reduction in unpaid care work carried out by women in developing countries . this ambitious agenda will not be delivered effectively without action by governments working in concert with the private sector and nongovernmental organizations . it will require additional investment , job creation for women , and the introduction of measures to help women move into more productive work . mgi has identified several interventions worldwide that could easily be deployed more broadly . measures proven to improve access to education include building more secondary schools , ensuring that girls are provided with sanitation facilities in the places they study , and creating financial incentives – including cash transfers – to raise enrollment and keep girls in school .
unhcr , as currently conceived , is not an independent , nonpartisan agency that it claims to be . heavily dependent on donors and host governments to launch relief operations , it is beholden to its interests , and does not always have the political support it needs to get the job done . the other major multilateral migration agency , the iom , assists in the return of migrants , asylum seekers , refugees , and internally displaced to their place of origin , or to other countries or regions that have agreed to accept them . but , like unhcr , governance issues plague the iom . in particular , the iom lacks a mechanism to evaluate whether national governments are using coercion – prohibited under international law – to repatriate or relocate refugees .
with political gridlock blocking an appropriate fiscal response – the united states congress after 2008 , the federal reserve has not passed an annual budget , a basic component of responsible economic governance , for five years – central banks have been forced to strengthen economies artificially . to do so , they have relied on near-zero interest rates and unconventional measures like quantitative easing to stimulate growth and job creation . beyond being incomplete , this approach implicitly favors the wealthy , who hold disproportionately large shares of financial assets . meanwhile , companies have become increasingly aggressive in their efforts to reduce their fiscal bills , including through so-called inversions , by shifting their headquarters to lower-tax jurisdictions . as a result , most countries face trio of inequalities – income , wealth , and opportunity – that , left unchecked , reinforce one another , with far-reaching consequences .
and even the administration ’s plan to favor skilled workers over unskilled workers will not necessarily reduce the number of legal migrants in the country . all told , trump has governed like plutocrat in populist clothes – that is , pluto-populist . but why has his base let him get away with pursuing policies that mostly hurt them ? according to one view , he is betting that social conservatives and white blue-collar supporters in rural areas will vote on the basis of nationalist and religious sentiment and antipathy toward secular coastal elites , rather than their own financial interests . but how long can anyone be expected to support “ god and guns ” at the expense of “ bread and butter ” ?
the holiday received its current name in 2006 , and , according to a recent survey by the russian pollster fom , 59 % of russians consider it special or significant ( 32 % do not ) . unfortunately , february 23 is not the red army ’s only remaining relic . another soviet military legacy is the obligatory conscription system . while all other large european countries have abolished military conscription in recent decades , russia continues with a system in which all physically-fit male citizens aged 18 to 27 must serve for 12 months . exemptions are based on medical conditions , and are given to university students and staff of certain organizations ( such as police ) .
paris – tunisia , one of the arab league ’s 22 members , is in the throes of a severe and profound crisis , albeit perhaps one with favorable resolution . it is the smallest north african country , covering 163,000 square kilometers – more or less twice the size of belgium , the netherlands , and luxembourg – and containing a population of 10.5 million . it is also full of charm and moderation in its climate , history , and culture . it was once the pillar of roman cultural dynamism and influence . the first african region to be christianized was the land of saint augustine and the main source of catholic evangelism in africa .
true , any arab – indeed , virtually everyone – knows exactly who is responsible for khashoggi ’s disappearance : crown prince mohammed bin salman of saudi arabia . but the fact that a well-known cartoonist had to mask the culprit ’s image speaks volumes about the fear felt by independent journalists in the arab world . khashoggi ’s disappearance has only deepened their anxieties . arab countries have a long history of rewarding journalists toe the official line while punishing those , like khashoggi , who dare to speak truth to power . since the failed arab spring revolutions – of which tunisia is the only success story – citizens across the region have found themselves with stark choices between radical islamist regimes and military rule .
financial liberalization will be difficult to reverse , but its adverse side effects – including greater systemic risk – require a series of reforms . first , more information and transparency about complex assets , and who is holding them , are needed . second , complex instruments should be traded on exchanges rather than over-the-counter markets , and they should be standardized to allow liquid secondary markets to arise . third , we need better supervision and regulation of the financial system , including regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions , such as hedge funds and even sovereign wealth funds . fourth , rating agencies ’ role needs to be rethought , with more regulation and competition introduced .
and yet it is just one of the many domestic challenges facing the region . arabs must take charge of their own agendas , becoming the primary force defining their own future and that of their countries . they should , of course , continue to engage with the outside world and strengthen their strategic relationships and alliances . but they also need to become less dependent on others . for starters , the region ’s governments need to develop their own national-security capacities , defend against existential threats , and hegemonic expansionism .
now , a new paper by servaas storm effectively demolishes another famous trope of neoliberal economics : the argument that labor-market “ rigidities ” depress output and employment . one of the empirical investigations most often cited for this argument is paper by timothy besley and robin burgess , who use manufacturing data across india for the 1958-92 period . besley and burgess argued that pro-worker regulations in some states resulted in lower output , employment , investment , and productivity , and even increased urban poverty , relative to states that did not adopt such regulations . this conclusion came to underpin the conventional wisdom that labor-market regulation is harmful to industrial expansion , and that the way to increase production and employment in manufacturing is to promote more labor-market “ flexibility ” by repealing laws that protect workers . this wisdom prevailed not only in india ; it influenced policies accordingly across a wide range of developing countries .
britain ’s economic prospects increasingly depend on events beyond its shores , whether just across the english channel or in china or california . environmental hazards blow in the wind . swelling migration pressures threaten to overwhelm any pretense at border controls . security concerns increasingly implicate foreign and domestic policies simultaneously . a recent political cartoon showed british bombers taking off a mission , with one pilot saying to others , “ it seems a long way to bomb a few young men from south london . ”
after that election , perhaps heady with the magnitude of his support , he proposed deepening his revolution with new laws on the organization of society and economics . these laws , already approved but not fully implemented , should be the catalyst for a new institutional arrangement within the country , one supposedly premised on a direct relationship between leader and people and progressive hollowing out democratic institutions . meanwhile , all bodies of public power – all of them – now obey chávez . given this history , it is noteworthy that in his speech the day after his victory , chávez called for coexistence , dialogue , debate , and for everyone to work together for venezuela ’s good . he emphasized that the people voted for chávez and socialism .
genes can be damaged by environmental factors , such as radiation or chemicals . they can also be damaged by the products of ordinary metabolism . our bodies elaborate repair systems that maintain the integrity of our genes , even in the presence of damaging agents . occasionally , however , damage is not repaired . if the damage occurs in key genes that regulate cell growth , cancer can develop .
ithaca – the internet was once hailed as a powerful democratizing force – enabling innovative startups to compete with established firms , disrupt entire industries , and create new ones . but , as some of these startups grew into behemoths , this force turned on its head . far from leveling the playing field , big tech now owns it largely , rather than democratizing the economy , the internet ended up exacerbating the problem of global inequality . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
“ but the developing world can make things much worse . ” in announcing a new sino-us joint research effort , chu described clean energy as “ one of the great opportunities of our time ” for sino-us cooperation , saying that by “ working together , we can accomplish more than [ by acting alone ] . ” still , one is left to wonder whether this new collaborative bonhomie and ethnic bonding will prove strong enough to cut through not only the long history of distrustful interactions between the us and china , but also the destabilizing effects of china ’s sudden economic rise ? for , though the us has drawn strength from the ideal of a “ melting pot ” – and president barack obama ’s cabinet represents a new high-water mark for diversity – americans have often shown a xenophobic mistrust of immigrants who have drawn too close to power . in the chinese , in particular , fears of divided national loyalties and “ fifth columns ” have been strong .
greece ’s economic weakness increases its current level of deficit . five years of falling gdp have depressed tax receipts and increased transfer payments . the imf estimates that these cyclical effects on revenues and outlays have raised the overall deficit by almost 5 % of greek gdp . on a cyclically adjusted basis , greece ’s overall budget would show a surplus of 0.6 % of gdp this year . this also implies that if greece could escape its current recession , its national debt would shrink , both absolutely and as a share of gdp .
as indian prime minister manmohan singh put it during wen ’s visit , “ india and china can collectively reshape the world order . ” the two countries ’ recent rapprochement marks a huge change from the hostility bedeviled their relations following their 1962 war over a disputed border in the himalayas . when i first visited india as an american government official in the late 1970s , i was struck by my indian hosts ’ fixation on gaining equal status with china . in 1998 , when india tested its nuclear weapons , the us defense minister referred to china , then prime minister atal bihari vajpayee spoke of china as india ’s number one enemy . on the other hand , on more recent visits to india , i found my hosts referring to the need to learn from china .
since hildebrand was independently wealthy , this approach would not have worked easily with him . so , did he receive the stick instead of the carrot ? fortunately , we have a good independent test . the head of the european banking authority , andrea resh , has issued new bank-friendly regulations . while one can debate the appropriateness of tightening accounting standards in the midst of a crisis , his order that banks increase their capital is entirely justified , especially at a time when the european central bank subsidizes them with a wall of three-year liquidity at almost zero cost .
second , and partly as a consequence , virtually all eurozone countries ’ debt trading at a discount relative to german bunds . while price risk was needed more accurately , it is hard to believe that the netherlands , with a debt-to-gdp ratio almost 20 percentage points lower than germany ’s , deserves to be judged as a higher risk of default . but now even mighty herzegovina has begun to suffer from heightened market anxiety . third , financial-market participants and , increasingly , real firms are pricing in a possible eurozone breakup , if not the end of the euro itself . it is still difficult to think that the unthinkable , let alone work out the details of it , but any rational player must now consider the possibility .
indeed , by coincidence , on sunday ’s young soccer fan , vladislav surkov , the first deputy in president dmitri medvedev ’s administration , was meeting michael mcfaul of president barack obama ’s national security council . that meeting was occurring as part of a rally led by surkov , of russian youth-movement activists . one quote from surkov that day is particularly telling : “ make up for elections , train your brains , and muscles . you can always rely on our support . ” those muscles were put to use outside kremlin walls that very day .
hong kong – sesame street kermit ’s frog once lamented that “ it ’s not easy to bein ” green . today , this sentiment is surprisingly relevant to the global economy – only becoming green that is the problem . last september , the intergovernmental panel on climate change warned that if the world sticks to “ business as usual , ” global temperatures could rise more than 4 ° c – far beyond the 2 ° c increase deemed “ safe . ” this prompted un secretary-general ban ki-moon to challenge political , economic , and financial leaders in january to intensify their efforts to achieve a new global climate-change agreement by 2015 . but , as important as high-level deals are , they will amount to little unless they are backed by substantial investment in areas like smart grids , energy storage , and renewables .
the search for a new managing director of the imf provides a keen reminder of how unjust today ’s international institutions are . created in the postwar world of 1945 , they reflect realities that have long ceased to exist . the organization and allocation of power within the un , the imf , the world bank , and g7 meetings reflect a global equilibrium that disappeared long ago . after wwii germany and japan were defeated aggressors , the soviet union posed a major threat , with china engulfed in civil war that would bring mao ’s communists to power . much of the so-called third world was either recently independent or remained colonies ; all were very poor .
just before the 2016 brexit referendum , then-british prime minister david cameron made a last-minute appeal to german chancellor angela merkel , imploring her to agree to a cap on the people ’s movement into the uk . merkel refused , and the brexit referendum passed by a narrow margin . the irony is that merkel is now facing the same anti-immigration backlash that cameron did in 2016 . immigration tends to be good for the economy over the long term , especially if the ratio of pensioners to workers rises . but when the immigration level exceeds a country ’s capacity to absorb new workers , there can be severe economic and social costs , at least in the short run .
the odious debt idea was revived in an influential 2006 article by jayachandran and michael kremer , and a 2010 report by the center for global development ( cgd ) , which proposed that economic sanctions include a mechanism aimed at preventing the accumulation of odious obligations . the mechanism would take the form of a declaration that debt issued by a particular government would be deemed odious . in effect , this is what the trump administration has just done . such a declaration reduces the flow of funds to odious regimes , owing to the risk that successor governments renounce their predecessor ’s debts without incurring legal and reputational costs ( because participating countries ’ courts will not enforce debt contracts ) . the cgd report proposes that a regime should be considered odious if it abuses human rights , employs military coercion , perpetrates electoral fraud , and mismanages or misappropriates public funds .
that cleared the way for bhutto ’s return , who remained prime minister until 1996 , when she was dismissed yet again – this time by her own pakistan peoples ’ party . in 1997 , it was sharif ’s turn again . but his confrontation with the military intensified over the years , resulting in another 1999 coup , leading to eight years of military rule under general pervez musharraf . in 2008 , musharraf resigned under popular pressure , bringing asif zardari , the widower of benazir bhutto , who assassinated last december , to the presidency . ignoring constitutional requirements , zardari did not transfer executive authority to his prime minister , and instead expected the two prime ministers who served under him to follow through on his orders .
rich countries ’ shift from subsistence economies to sustained growth and prosperity was conditioned on a profound demographic shift – occurring in the 19 th century in western europe and throughout the twentieth century in east asia – in which fertility rates fell dramatically . the past two decades witnessed similarly sharp fertility declines in poor countries , which are now showing solid signs of economic progress . in egypt , for example , fertility rates have declined from 4.8 to 2.9 children per woman in the last 15 years . during the past decade , egypt ’s average annual per capita income has grown at 2.6 % . during the same period , tunisia ’s population growth rate fell by more than 50 % , to slightly more than two children per woman , while per capita income has grown at an impressive annual rate of 3 % .
in response to former us president barack obama ’s efforts to create a pacific-rim trade bloc to contain china , xi has launched his belt and road initiative ( bri ) , which is now being met by the american-led indo-pacific initiative under trump . the two countries are also on similar paths militarily . though china still has plenty of catch-up to do , its total defense spending is already second only to the us . it has built and launched its first aircraft carrier , and it has plans to launch more . it is developing and deploying anti-access/area-denial ( a2/ad ) defense systems .
america ’s misadventure in iraq , its exhaustion as a world power , and its unwillingness to maintain its previous level of commitment to the region have rendered the sykes-picot structure untenable , because no other external force for order is available . the resulting vacuum has been filled by various currents of political islam , terrorism , protest movements , uprisings , secession attempts by national or religious minorities , and aspiring regional hegemons ( iran and saudi arabia ) . indeed , america ’s partial withdrawal implies that the end of enforced stability in the old middle east will not spare the sykes-picot borders . developments in syria and iraq already suggest as much , and lebanon and jordan ’s future has become increasingly uncertain . one of the region ’s few positive features is that no global power rivalries currently play out there .
why are services so important to china ’s rebalancing ? for starters , services are far more labor-intensive than the country ’s traditional growth sectors . in 2011 , chinese services generated 30 % more jobs per unit of output than did manufacturing and construction . this means that the chinese economy can achieve its all-important labor-absorption goals – employment , urbanization , and poverty reduction – with much slower gdp growth than in the past . in other words , a 7-8 % growth trajectory in an increasingly services-led economy can hit the same labor-absorption targets that required 10 % growth under china ’s previous model .
the united kingdom now seems certain to hold , by 2016 , a referendum on the remaining in the eu , and a far-left party – determined , as in greece , to escape the rigors of economic reform – could win spain ’s general election next autumn . certainly , events could turn out positively , with the uk remaining part of the eu , and spain opting for a status quo or a more moderate vision of change than greece ’s syriza-led government embraced . but the worst-case scenario for the eu looks increasingly likely : “ grexit ” ( greece leaving the eurozone ) , “ brexit ” ( the uk leaving the eu ) , and the spanish election result reminiscent of greece ’s . should such a perfect storm emerge , the eu ’s very existence would be in doubt , because other member countries would consider or start planning its own post-eu futures . indeed , all euroskeptic and nationalist forces in the eu ’s member states would strive , with increasing success , to force their respective countries ’ withdrawal from the eu , in domestic political debate
oil prices are at historic highs , and they are at historic highs . climate change negotiations are taking place in circles . aid to the poorest countries is stagnant , despite years of promised increases . and yet in this gathering storm , it has been hard to find a single real accomplishment by world leaders .
two years earlier , mauricio macri won the presidency in 2015 on his promise that fiscal adjustment and opening argentina to the world would spur economic revival . instead , they paved the way for his defeat . in a few short years , the pro-market reforms and economic opening package seemed to be stepping with the rest of the world . deglobalization , nativism , and protectionism set a new tone for politics , with frustration and uncertainty about future overshadowing hope . frustration even afflicting the region ’s paragon of open-market politics , chile .
ronald reagan argued in 1980 that it was “ morning in america , ” but in america now , it is the morning after . this drive toward an off-the-grid , eat-the-the-the-the-the-the-grid , eat-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-/you-raise , bike-theon-your-own , solar-powered collective fantasy is inevitable : americans were pumped full of hope that more consumption would make them happier , leaving instead with a pile of debt . they were asked to admire the top of the income pyramid , only to find that they were looking at a pyramid scheme . it is no wonder , therefore , that a kind of survivalist chic has become the updated version of the radical , communal chic of the 1960s . americans have lost faith in those who , in boom times , purred , “ trust us . ”
to be sure , china is cautious in avoiding any dramatic action that could become a casus belli by itself . indeed , it has repeatedly shown a knack for disaggregating its strategy into multiple parts , and then pursuing each element separately in such a way as enabling the various pieces to fall into the room with minimal opposition . this shrewdness not only keeps opponents on balance ; it also undercuts the relevance of america ’s security assurances to allies and the value of building countervailing strategic partnerships in asia . in fact , by camouflaging offense as defense , china casts the burden of starting a war on an adversary while seeking to lay the foundation – brick by brick – of the hegemonic middle kingdom . chinese leaders ’ stated desire to resolve territorial disputes peacefully means achieving a position that is strong enough to get their way without having to fire a shot .
these cities are learning from one another , building on good ideas and jettisoning poorer ones . los angeles took decades to implement pollution controls , but other cities , like beijing , have converted rapidly when they see the benefits . in the coming decades , we may see a global system of interconnected , sustainable cities emerging . if successful , everyone will want to join the club . fundamentally , this is the right approach to managing systemic risk and changing in complex interconnected systems , and for successfully managing common resources – though it has so far dent the inexorable rise in global greenhouse-gas emissions .
new york – a few years ago , as part of a western delegation to china , i met chinese president xi jinping in beijing ’s great hall of people . when addressing the us , xi argued that china ’s rise would be peaceful , and that other countries – namely , the united states – need not worry about the thucydides trap , so named for the greek historian who chronicled how sparta ’s fear of a rising athens made war between the two inevitable . in his 2017 book destined for war : can america and china escape thucydides ’s trap ? harvard university ’s graham allison examines 16 earlier rivalries between an emerging and established power , and finds that 12 of them led to war . no doubt , xi wanted the us to focus on the other four . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
what is a reasonable view of china ’s recent history ? to put it crudely : does it matter that the chinese communist party has killed millions on millions of people , desecrated the environment , and deeply wounded china ’s traditional culture ? chinese intellectuals tend to avoid the issue , shrugging it off as irrelevant and in any case too unpleasant to contemplate . we need to look ahead and not back . things are finally moving in the right direction , and let ’s not , please , do anything that may upset that hopeful movement .
london – what do the recently released panama papers , exxonmobil , and canadian mining company operating in guatemala have in common ? they are all cases in which powerful individuals and organizations have tried to obfuscate , deceive , or hide behind the front . and they are all cases in which efforts have not worked . the global uproar triggered by the panama papers – 11.5 million files taken , apparently by computer hackers , from the world ’s fourth-largest offshore law firm , panama ’s mossack fonseca – is likely to continue for some time . files ’ release has exposed the extreme , and sometimes costly , lengths that individuals go to hide their assets and avoid taxation .
the longer-term consequences will not be savory , but they will be problems for the next day . some will say that the fatal mistake was to allow greece to adopt the euro . that the country was unprepared to be clear . its fiscal policies were already out of control when it joined the 2001 monetary union , and its trade unions agitated to push wages up to the european level , despite lagging productivity . but this answer is too simple , given that such signs of dysfunction are not confined to greece .
that policy was destined to produce a financial crisis because it was bound to leave governments and banks depleted assets and larger debts . despite austerity , the forecast for the uk ’s structural deficit this year has increased from 6.5 % to 8 % – requiring an extra £ 22 billion ( $ 34.6 billion ) in cuts a year . prime minister david cameron and german chancellor george osborne blame the eurozone crisis ; in fact , their own economic illiteracy is to blame . unfortunately for all of us , the explanation bears repeating today . depressions , recessions , contractions – call them what you will – arise because the private spends less than it had previously done .
paris – last month , atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide surpassed 400 parts per million for the first time in roughly three million years . if the current trend , which fits the worst-case scenario set by the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) , persists , co2 concentrations will rise above 800 ppm in the end of this century – with devastating consequences . indeed , the predicted global average temperature increase of 2.4-6.4 ° c caused by such high ambient concentrations of co2 is expected to trigger the worst outcomes foreseen in ipcc scenarios , including loss of an estimated 40 % of species , more frequent extreme weather events , and widespread water scarcity . to avoid imposing such risk and uncertainty on future generations , global carbon emissions , which stand at 8.5 gigatons annually , must be halved by 2050 . even in the ipcc ’s best-case scenario , co2 concentrations will rise to 550 ppm by the end of the century – a level that many researchers argue would already be too high to avoid dire consequences .
the us has turned a corner in rebuilding its fisheries and ensuring that they are sustainable . the european commission has just presented a proposal to reform the common fisheries policy designed to help rebuild europe ’s fisheries . good science is the cornerstone of both policies . but it is not enough to get our respective houses to their own . because fish and other ocean wildlife do not stay within national boundaries , international cooperation is essential to the long-term health of the world ’s oceans and to sustainability of fisheries and fisheries jobs .
technologies that engage patients in their own health care and enable more seamless adherence to medications regimes have the potential to improve disease management , reduce hospitalization , and lower costs . today ’s transformational advances in health care owe much to new genomics information , the availability of big data to influence decision-making in real time , more targeted and individualized therapies , and smarter , more interconnected delivery systems . but they are just the beginning . further breakthroughs , enabled by the convergence of science and technology , can be expected , especially as unconventional players enter the health-care sector . in this process , partnerships between health-care and technology companies will become increasingly important .
when the incentives for money to flow across borders are strong , it will find a way , abetted by proliferation of firms with operations in multiple countries and the expansion of international trade – serving as a conduit for masking capital flows and evading controls . even in a tightly managed economy like china , massive capital inflows have been able to find their way around controls over the past decade . moreover , establishing controls on one type of inflow simply leads to its being disguised in other forms . capital controls have real costs , even if they fail to stanch inflows . they create a layer of protection from competition for those who are better connected , politically or economically , or have sheer heft to get around the constraints .
such shifts may emerge only slowly , but they can fundamentally change the calculus of risk pricing and potential returns . today ’s market is easy to explain in fundamental factors : earnings are rising , inflation has been kept at bay , and the global economy appears to be experiencing a broad , synchronized expansion . in october , the international monetary fund updated its global outlook to predict that only a handful of small countries will suffer a recession next year . and while major central banks are planning or have already begun , tightening monetary policy , interest rates will remain low for now . political crises , however sensational they may be , are not likely to change investors ’ economic calculus .
skidelsky approvingly quoted krugman ’s claim that britain was “ doing worse this time than it did during the great depression . ” more than once , krugman ’s assertion that osborne was motivated by an erroneous belief that if he did not reduce the deficit , he might forfeit investor confidence ( the “ confidence fairy ” ) . just a week before the uk voted this month , skidelsky speculated that voters , “ still wobbly from osborne ’s medicine , ” might have “ decided that they should have stayed in bed . ” instead , the tories won an outright majority , confounding pollsters and keynesians alike . what might possibly have gone wrong – or , rather , right ?
to my right sat dagan , who just completed eight years as head of mossad ; to my left sat dore gold , a former israeli academic and former israeli ambassador . the two men held very different views about how best to guarantee israel ’s security , and it is worth rearing their respective arguments . gold argued that returning to pre-1967 armistice lines would leave israel without “ defensible borders . ” israel , he insisted , could guard against threats from the east only if it maintained a military presence in the west bank and controlled the jordan river – which runs along the border separating jordan from israel and the west bank . dagan countered that the role of the military is to safeguard israel ’s borders , regardless of where those borders are drawn .
if a rip van winkle economist were to wake up today after decades-long sleep and see only those numbers , he or she would assume that one-fifth of americans were unemployed and standing in lines outside soup kitchens . instead , america ’s jobless rate is at its lowest level since neil armstrong took his famous first step onto the moon ’s surface 50 years ago . the idea that the us wins in a global slump might sound like the sardonic musing of some unreconstructed marxist in the dingy corner of faculty parlance . but such a view is not ideological . rather , global interest rates scraping the floor because gdp growth outside the us is so sluggish .
new zealand ’s private forest plantations have increased by more than 1.4 million acres since 1990-2002 . although not planted for climate purposes , these trees soak up carbon dioxide . new zealand has successfully negotiated to include this specific emissions offset in its overall figures neatly balancing the actual increase . for safety sake , the country has also bought lots of foreign offsets , including highly dodgy ones from russia and ukraine . but growing forests have also cut new zealand ’s emissions in comparison with 1990 levels .
berlin – europe finally seems to have moved past its multi-year economic crisis , but it remains unsettled . for every reason for optimism , there always seems to be a new cause for concern . in june 2016 , a slim majority of british voters chose nostalgia for a nineteenth-century past over whatever promise the twenty-first century might have held . so they decided to jump off a cliff in the name of “ sovereignty . ” there is much evidence to suggest that a hard landing awaits the united kingdom .
new york – barack obama ’s basic outlines of an approach to foreign policy became clear in 2009 . his administration believes that the united states should talk with other governments even if it disagrees profoundly with its character . it prefers acting with other countries alone . and it has shifted the focus of american foreign policy from what countries do within their borders to how they act beyond them . all of this differentiates obama from his immediate predecessor , george w. bush , whose administration branded countries as evil and mostly refused to deal with them ; often , it rejected cooperation with other governments , lest the us find itself constrained ; and it seeks to transform other countries rather than influence their actions .
until now , nations ’ wealth has been based on coal combustion , gas , and oil . but , if the 2 ° c target is taken seriously , the twenty-first century will see countries that are not so far down the path of carbonization ( such as large parts of africa ) or that leave it in time ( such as india and pakistan ) , able to become wealthy by helping societies that must de-carbonize rapidly . for the moment , all this remains utopian . in its current state , cap-and-trade schemes to reduce emissions are far from being fair and effective ; a major improvement would include establishing a central climate bank to register and supervise the transfer of emission credits . this bank would also ensure that emissions trading did not run counter to the goal of remaining within the entire global budget , for example , through the complete sale of unused emissions credits by individual developing countries at the start of the treaty .
in many countries , politicians and media have portrayed refugees as a security threat , cultural cohesion , and public resources . former us secretary of state hillary clinton blamed her loss to donald trump in the 2016 us presidential election , and the brexit vote that preceded it , on the public backlash against immigration , and recently suggested that europe should admit fewer refugees to stem the rise of populism . gunter nooke , germany ’s africa commissioner , had an even more unpalatable proposal : african countries should cede land to the european union as special economic zones , in what would amount to “ voluntary colonialism . ” such solutions are not only unethical ; they would not end the crisis . humanitarian aid alone will not work , either , except stopgap measures .
since 1988 , iran has a government-funded , regulated system for purchasing kidneys . a charitable association of patients has a transaction , for a set price , and no one except the seller ’s profits from it . according to a study published in 2006 by iranian kidney specialists , the scheme eliminated the waiting list for kidneys in that country without giving up ethical problems . a 2006 bbc television program showed many potential donors turning away , because they failed to meet strict age criteria , and others who were required to visit the psychologist . a more systematic study of the iranian system is still needed .
the concern then was discrimination : european countries , worried , would find it easier to import from one another , but lacking dollars , would still refuse to import imports from america . moreover , american officials worried that the epu would duplicate and undermine the functions of the newly created international monetary fund . at this point , however , the two narratives diverge . with the advent of the cold war , president harry truman ’s administration and the american congress recognized the urgency of european reconstruction . to this end , they authorized the epu ’s use of $ 350 million of marshall plan funds .
washington , dc – the brexit referendum in the united kingdom and the united states ’ presidential race have shown , among other things , public distrust of global integration . that mistrust could derail new trade agreements currently in the works , impeding future ones from being initiated . the danger implied by this scenario should not be underestimated . isolationism and protectionism , if taken too far , would break the trade-based engine that has delivered decades of peace and prosperity . as costa rica ’s former trade minister , i know how difficult it is for countries – developed and developing alike – to craft trade policies that deliver benefits to all of their people .
the uribe-lula-calderón axis appears to be set on to keep him there . chávez is the loser not only because he has provided farc moral support ( he once described them as “ belligerents , ” not terrorists , and publicly called uribe an american stooge ) , but also because he believes that he has been providing farc covert military support . that backing appeared to be part of chávez ’s “ bolivarian ” socialist revolution , which used venezuelan petrodollars to bankroll left-wing governments in ecuador , bolivia , and cuba in the hope of building a regional anti-american alliance . there have been serious grounds for believing that latin america has been going through one of its regular bouts of left-wing destabilization , given the rise of bolivian president evo morales , ecuador ’s president rafael correa , and their ringleader , chávez . but the recent worldwide surge in commodity prices meant that chile ’s traditional regional powerhouses , brazil , and mexico experienced economic booms of their own .
even if the american federal reserve continues to lower interest rates , lenders will not rush to make more bad mortgages . with house prices falling , fewer americans will be willing and able to continue their profligacy . the bush administration is hoping , somehow , to forestall a wave of foreclosures – thereby passing the economy ’s troubles on to the next president just as it is doing with the iraq quagmire . its chances of succeeding are slim . for america today , the real question is only whether there will be a short , sharp downturn or a more prolonged but shallower , slowdown .
but centralization carries its own costs . given the inherent risk inherent in betting on policy convergence , labor mobility – which enables highly valuable human capital , especially well-educated young people , to leave lagging regions for those offering more and better employment opportunities – could prove to be a critical tool for adjustment . as it stands , labor mobility is imperfect . but , with language training and the implementation of something like the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs ( which aims to create an innovative “ learning economy , ” underpinned by inclusive social and environmental policies ) , mobility could be enhanced . but more fluid labor mobility is no panacea .
today , most russian elites feel themselves not only european , but i believe , too european . fixated on europe , they forget that they live in moscow or irkutk , not paris or budapest . culturally , we are predominantly european , but 8 % of our population is moslem , and we inherited a lot from asia : co-citizens , cuisine , cultural traits , and common history . many new russians , working like machines 16 hours a day , seven days per week , look at their more relaxed western counterparts with disdain often found in asia ’s tiger economies . “ it is not america , you must work here ” – a popular joke .
other surrounding countries , including india , thailand , and malaysia , also feel the effects of the rohingya ’s plight . far from moving to stem this humanitarian crisis , suu kyi ’s government has exacerbated it . while suu kyi does not control the military , which is waging a murderous crackdown , her government has blocked un agencies from delivering vital emergency supplies . the un population fund ( unfpa ) , the refugee agency ( unhcr ) , and the children ’s fund ( unicef ) have all been forced to halt work in affected areas . this represents a tragic departure for suu kyi , who previously championed international acclaim – and the nobel peace prize – for her role in the fight for democracy in myanmar .
although eu-turkey relations are currently not at their best , dialogue between the two sides must continue in 2017 , not least because of their common interests , which are based not only on economic interdependence , but also on the refugee crisis and the collective fight against terrorism . european politics will continue to consume the brexit negotiations next year . in march , the united kingdom will most likely invoke article 50 of the lisbon treaty , triggering the formal process of withdrawal from the eu . the challenge will be to reach an agreement that guarantees the well-being of the future eu-uk relationship . this will not be easy , and eu negotiators have already set a timeline for just 18 months .
just days after obama declared last october that malaysia was a model of “ diversity and tolerance , ” malaysian authorities denied non-muslims the right to use the word “ allah ” in practice of their own faiths – a decision condemned throughout the muslim world for its negative portrayal of islam . moreover , najib ’s government members endorse hudud , a class of sanctions within sharia law that could imply strict limitations on muslims ’ right to choose how they practice their faith . according to the american state department ’s own human-rights reports , curbs on religious freedoms included demolition of hindu temples , bombings of christian churches , and a ban on shia islam ’s practice , to which some 15 % of the world ’s muslims adhere . likewise , according to the pew research center , najib ’s government has “ very high ” restrictions on religious freedom . international press freedom measures and corruption expose persistent deficits as much as they do .
there are not many human activities whose impact can reasonably be predicted decades , centuries , or even millennia , in advance . the fallout from nuclear waste is one ; humans ’ contribution to global warming through greenhouse-gas emissions from burning fossil fuels is another . indeed , the latest intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) report , stated in uncharacteristically strong terms , that sea levels are “ virtually certain ” to continue rising in the coming centuries or millennia . moreover , the greater our emissions , the higher the seas , will rise . but recent revelations about antarctica are different .
addis ababa – africa bears the brunt of lives lost , economies ruined , and relationships fractured by terrorism . it is the continent where al-qaeda launched its war against the united states in 1998 by bombing american embassies in nairobi , kenya , and dar es salaam , tanzania ; where boko haram kidnapped 276 nigerian schoolgirls in 2014 ; and where 147 students were killed in their sleep at kenya ’s garissa university in 2015 . while these attacks garner the world ’s attention , most people do not realize that , in the last five years alone , 33,000 people have died in terrorism-related violence in africa . violent extremism and groups espousing it are threatening to reverse africa ’s development gains not only in the near term , but also for decades to come . african countries are particularly vulnerable to violent ideologues , owing to the prevalence of weak institutions and ungoverned territories where extremist groups can germinate .
the first problem is china ’s economy , so dynamic on the surface . the analyst chi lo lucidly presents a picture of macro success alongside micro failure . the massive rmb4 trillion ( $ 586 billion ) stimulus in november 2008 , mostly poured into loss-making state-owned enterprises through directed bank lending , sustained china ’s growth in the face of a global recession . but the price was an increasingly severe misallocation of capital , resulting in growing portfolios of bad loans , while excessive chinese household savings inflated real-estate bubbles . moreover , chi argues that the 2008 crisis shattered china ’s export-led growth model , owing to prolonged impairment of demand in the advanced countries .
moreover , the us insists that it does not contain china ( as it did with the soviet union ) ; on the contrary , china ’s economic rise has been facilitated by access to us markets , as has global markets through american support for chinese accession to the world trade organization . on human rights , the us argues that there are indeed fundamental differences between the two countries ’ political traditions and current systems . but , in the american view , this is vastly different from an organized national strategy of undermining the chinese state and its institutions . for these reasons , the bilateral strategy gic-trust deficit is on the rise . xi , to his credit , has advanced what he describes as a concept for a “ new type of great power relationship , ” one that seeks to avoid what others have concluded is the near-inevitability of a long-term conflict between a rising power ( china ) and an established power ( america ) .
and there is little evidence that the corporate-tax burden actually falls on employees rather than capital . the nonpartisan american congressional budget office and the us federal institute for taxation and economic policy , among others , have shown clearly that more than 80 % of the impact of corporate taxation falls on shareholders , not workers . still , market liberals would argue that corporate taxes “ distort ” behavior and hamper wealth creation . but this is simplistic , at best . for starters , tax competition among jurisdictions is quite different from competition among firms .
doctors are not gods , but they increasingly play god by refusing to use life-extending techniques for patients and families who want them , and even willing to pay for them . in holland , there is no private medicine . the only recourse for dissatisfied patients is to leave the country or go to the courts . european welfare states thus face a serious dilemma . there is no doubt that holland spends substantial amounts of money on caring for old people .
unfortunately , it is far from clear that the chinese model of infrastructure development can be exported universally . china ’s strong central government overwhelms opposition from people displaced by new roads , bridges , and dams , and for many years has run roughshod over environmental concerns and workers ’ rights . the parallels with the old soviet union are striking . some developing countries in asia , for example , work differently . in democratic india , for example , it took eight years to rebuild mumbai ’s airport , because courts forced the government to respect squatters ’ rights on its outskirts .
and even when revenues are earned , because airports could be earned , businesses might be discouraged by the need to rely on long-term pricing agreements . it is also easy to fall into the trap of thinking about tax cuts as a way to boost aggregate demand . but congressional republicans may insist on paying for personal income tax cuts by limiting deductions that individuals now use to lower their tax bills . the tax plan put forward on behalf of the republicans by paul ryan , speaker of the us house of representatives , calls for eliminating all deductions other than those for charitable contributions and mortgage interest . that change would raise revenue equal to about 1 % of gdp , enough to pay for very substantial reductions in individual tax rates .
nairobi – african countries are often criticized for failing to meet their environmental challenges . observers often cite habitat loss in the face of population growth , land degradation , and industrialization . and then there is the most frequent charge of all : that increasing poaching is endangering species like elephants and rhinos . in kenya , however , an innovative and extensive conservation project is underway . beginning in aberdare mountains in central kenya , “ rhino ark , ” originally conceived to protect the highly endangered black rhino from the ravages of poachers , is supported by very people who might resist it : local communities in some of the country ’s most productive farming areas .
convoluted logic behind this strategy is quite disturbing – not only for the us , but also for the global economy . there is nothing cyclical about the enduring aftershocks of a balance-sheet recession that has now been evident for almost five years . indeed , balance-sheet repair has barely begun for us households . the personal-saving rate stood at just 3.7 % in august 2012 – up from 1.5 % in 2005 , but half the 7.5 % average recorded in the last three decades of the twentieth century . moreover , the debt overhang remains massive .
the european currency crises of 1992 and 1993 , together with more recent chaotic monetizations elsewhere , show that a successful transition was far from guaranteed . a second early success was that by virtually all measures of international use , the euro immediately became the world ’s second global reserve currency . moreover , the desire to admit the club led to favorable reforms in many aspiring member countries , particularly central and eastern european countries that later joined the european union . more recent entries on the “ success ” side of the ledger include the progress of some periphery countries , particularly spain , to reduce their previously uncompetitive unit labor costs . ecb president mario draghi deserves the summit marks for balancing germany ’s demand for fiscal discipline and the mediterranean need for accommodation .
if unlucky , the crisis will come to a head at the beginning of the german election year , and all previous calculations could be moot , because , despite germans ’ frustration with europe , voters would punish severely those who allowed europe to default . europe ’s economy is sliding into severe , and , in all likelihood , protracted recession , largely self-inflicted . while germany is still trying to banish the specter of hyperinflation with strict eurozone austerity measures , the eu is facing a real threat of deflation , with potentially catastrophic consequences . it is only a matter of time – no longer very much time – before economic destabilization gives rise to political instability . hungary , where democratic backsliding seems to be taking hold , provides a foretaste of a europe in which the eurozone crisis and deflation persist .
even today , thanks to a variety of sophisticated means , we can detect very small nuclear tests in remote locations . the treaty is also fair – it includes the same rights and responsibilities for all of its parties . it sets a new standard for the nuclear non-proliferation treaty treaty ( ctbt ) treaty obligations and verification . the ctbt is needed because of the role of nuclear tests in developing and improving nuclear weapons . such tests are also political symbols that have no place in a world determined to eliminate these abhorrent weapons of mass destruction .
we need leaders with sufficient mastery of detail , like china ’s last premier zhu rongji , who can not only tell us how they will get us from z to z , but can actually lead us from a to b. looking around , leaders like this seem to be extinct species . or , if they exist at all , dysfunctional political systems seem constrained . their ability to act is constrained by their political environment . the best example is us president barack obama , on whom so many hope rested – probably too many for any single leader .
today , palestinians are seeking statehood on a mere 22 % of the territory that has been part of mandatory palestine until israel unilaterally established itself on areas far larger than those awarded by the un general assembly resolution 181 in 1947 . palestine ’s quest for statehood within the borders of june 4 , 1967 , falls squarely within international law . the un security council resolved in november that year “ acquiring territory by war ” is unacceptable . subsequent security council resolutions and international treaties have upheld this principle . in fact , a palestinian state based on the 1967 borders is precisely what us president barack obama has called for .
indeed , some argue that the inventiveness and internationalism of a networked world of interests and shared causes is probably more resilient than one crammed into artificial – and increasingly constraining – the box of national statehood . in that sense , economic success in china or india may be those states ’ undoing , because middle-class political aspirations render current dysfunctional arrangements dysfunctional . conversely , we may find ourselves in a world whose eastern half is organized into strong authoritarian state structures , with the west embracing post-state association models . the question for international governance is how to provide a framework of institutions and rules in a world of competing organizational structures . the answer for policymakers is depressingly predictable : in the face of resurgent russia and china , this is no time to abandon our own nation-states and diplomacy to their own fate .
the anti-corruption campaign reflects the ccp ’s apparent determination to rid itself of vested interests . at its 2013 third plenum , the ccp announced 60 goals for economic and governance reform . many hope that these changes will help the ccp become more effective , strengthen the market ’s role , and avoid the so-called middle-income trap that has ensnared many emerging countries . the party ’s rhetoric , however , reveals little about how these goals will be achieved . indeed , there are worrying signs that the principal architect of the reform agenda , the respected free-market economist li keqiang , is already sidelined .
such flows should be shut down by governments and financial institutions alike . curtailing the flow of recruits is even more essential . countries can do more to make it difficult for individuals to leave for iraq or syria ; europe-wide watch lists , for example , would help . but nothing would have a greater impact than turkey decides that it will no longer allow itself to be a conduit , and that it will enforce united nations security council resolution 2178 , which calls for stronger international cooperation against terrorism . another component of any strategy must be to counter is appeals and propaganda .
political technology means secretly sponsoring fake politicians like bogdanov , setting up fake ngo ’s and “ patriotic ” youth movements like nashi ( ours ) to prevent a russian version of ukraine ’s orange revolution , and mobilizing voters against a carefully scripted “ enemy . ” in 1996 , the enemy was communists ; in 1999-2000 , chechens ; in 2003-04 , “ oligarchs . ” now it is us – the supposedly hostile west , and the threat posed by “ color revolutions ” to russia ’s hard-won stability . medvedev himself may find some or all of this distasteful , but russia now has an entire industry of political manipulation that is hardly likely to vanish overnight . we also need to understand the mechanics of russian succession politics .
so our task was not just to reconstruct the nation-state , but to society too -- its family values , its national traditions , and cultural heritage . our newly liberated societies must now learn the languages of our constituent parts , just as we learned a new economic and political language . through learning each other 's languages through cooperation based on shared values , common interests , as well as historical ties , central europe has demonstrated what spectacular results can be achieved . the visegrád group , cefta , the central european initiative produced a thriving free trade system and an increasing flow of investment among the region 's countries . in a broader context , hungary 's re-integration into western institutional structures is proceeding steadily if not at the desired pace .
conservationists decided in 1988 to finance and build an electrified fence to protect an aberdare national park bordering smallholder farms . the fence was designed to prevent intrusion from the human population and degradation of park ’s habitat . but it also protected farmers whose crops were regularly destroyed by marauding elephant and other wildlife . local farmers welcomed the initiative , which influenced the decision to expand the fence to surround the perimeter of aberdare range . the aberdare mountains , encompassing 2,000 square kilometers of indigenous forest and vital water-catchment areas , as well as the national park , are vitally important to kenya .
these protests have two major causes , and they are not the most important causes . first , social inequality has grown unabated in the west over the last quarter-century , owing partly to the disappearance of the soviet union and , with it , the threat of expansionist communism . the specter of revolution has forced western elites to use the state ’s power to redistribute wealth and nurture the growth of loyal middle classes . but , when communism collapsed in its eurasian heartland , the west ’s rich , believing that they had nothing more to fear , pressed for the welfare state to roll back , causing inequality to rise rapidly . this was tolerable as long as the overall pie was expanding , but the 2008 global financial crisis ended that .
in 1998 , the un estimated the total value of illicit drug trade at $ 400 billion , or 7 % of global trade . critics say that the figure is only half that – still a remarkable sum . colombia today is far worse than chicago under al capone . so , too , are other latin american , caribbean , and asian countries . the prohibition of drugs effectively imposes a tax on illicit drug trade , enforced by governments and collected by those willing to violate the laws .
tatiana insisted that bam construction was started in 1974 , a politically correct date , after which “ clean labor ” was used . but the railway ’s first section – initiated by stalin to offer an eastern route that ran farther away from the chinese border – was built by forced labor , including russian inmates and german prisoners of war , herded together in so-called bamlags , now ghost towns . even when volunteers were used , they were nowhere near as enthusiastic as official accounts claim . lacking adequate housing and electricity , few re-enlisted , and many deserted before completing their term . nonetheless , breanthropv-era bam construction showed what the dying soviet system was still capable of achieving .
and with support at around 26-29 % , italy remains popular despite its poor performance running the city council of rome . the problem for m5s is that , owing to a new electoral law , it will have to win roughly 40 % of the total vote to secure a parliamentary majority . while proportional representation will determine two-thirds of the seats in the lower house , one-third will be decided by first-past-the-post voting in single-member constituencies , where m5s will likely lose , because it is neither willing nor able to form the electoral alliances needed to secure majorities . in fact , the party grouping that will benefit the most from the current electoral system will be the only one that has managed to forge a pre-election pact with other parties : the berlusconi-led center right . as he demonstrated with his electoral victories in 1994 , 2001 , and 2008 , berlusconi ’s greatest strength has always been building coalitions .
upa ’s critics have long argued that unsustainably low , state-dictated passenger fares and freight charges for rail services – which could not cover the cost of maintenance to ensure trains and tracks safety , much less enable expansion and improvement in service delivery – reflected the government ’s inability to make tough decisions . it is true that coalition politics has prevented decisive action , with railway minister summarily dismissed by his own party leader – who the upa was politically unable to confront – after attempting to raise fares . but , in the pre-election interim budget , upa government finally has some bullet , proposing a 14.2 % increase in rail fares and a 6.5 % freight hike . india ’s code of political conduct , budget changes were deferred until the election . soon after taking office , the modi government announced its intention to implement price increases , though officials made sure to emphasize that they were simply following through on an existing mandate .
under the approved bill , muslim immigrants may be declared illegal . coupled with the government ’s plan to create an even more problematic national register of citizens , the authorities will be able to disenfranchise any indian muslim who is unable to prove his or her provenance in india . many indians , especially the poor , lack documentary evidence of when and where they were born ; even birth certificates have become widespread only in recent decades . while non-muslims would , thanks to a bill approved , get a free pass , similarly undocumented muslims would suddenly bear the onus of demonstrating that they are indian . this marks a breathtaking departure from seven decades of practice in managing an astonishing degree of cultural diversity .
having just emerged from a deep recession , financial disruptions could easily cause europe to slide back into recession , especially given europe ’s close links to russia via trade and energy . compounding the problem , no one truly understands the precise connections between russian and european institutions and markets . the collapse of ltcm in 1998 was completely unexpected . is europe today prepared to deal with a similar failure of an important financial institution ? financial sanctions on russia are not targeted , temporary , or fully credible .
gdp almost tripled over the last 20 years , but , with real wages rising at less than half this rate , growth has become decoupled from the fate of ordinary citizens . more than half of middle-income households spend more each month than they earn . signs of social distress multiplying . south korea ’s divorce rate has doubled , fertility rates have fallen to the fourth lowest among the advanced economies , and suicide rates are highest in the oecd . south korea is troubled for two key reasons .
this may mean eliminating shadowy “ tax havens , ” tapping phone lines , and identifying individuals as highly dangerous . police actions must merciless , even if this means more checks and surveillance . it is precisely to prevent the development of collective security from being able to alter the equilibrium between security and freedom . while the european union lags behind the united states in terms of conventional weapons , its capacity to fight terrorism is probably higher . for historical reasons , europe benefits from the political maturity that has allowed it to avoid bush ’s manichean worldview , which has merely reinforced rather than undermined , the enemy ’s fanaticism .
ross should read mehrsa baradaran informative book how the other half of the banks reflect on the high cost of credit for low-income families . or he could just ask mick mulvaney , the acting white house chief of staff . while in the us house of representatives , mulvaney received large donations from the payday loan industry , which makes most of its profits from lending at high interest rates to people with no alternative when cash is desperately needed . mulvaney also devoted considerable time over the last two years to weakening the safeguards that the consumer financial protection bureau previously attempted to implement some of the industry ’s worst abuses . as the government shutdown lengthened , payday lenders ’ stock prices rose .
seoul – the vast revolution in military affairs is taking place across east asia . the latest signs are chinese president xi jinping ’s purge of general xu caihou , an ex-politburo member and former vice-chairman of the central military commission , on charges of corruption , and japan ’s “ reinterpretation ” of article 9 of its constitution to permit the country to provide military aid to its allies . despite the rising regional tensions that have inspired these moves , china ’s relations with its neighbors and the united states are not fated to lead to direct confrontation . but the relentless march of new initiatives to meet the perceived “ china threat ” will require the region ’s political leaders , including the chinese , to resolve their disputes in new and more creative ways if that outcome is to be avoided . more broadly , there are three ways to foster international peace : deepening economic interdependence , promoting democracy , and building international institutions .
new haven – the severity of the global financial crisis that we have seen over the past two years must do with a fundamental source of instability in the banking system , one that we can and must design from existence . to do that , we must advance the state of our financial technologies . in a severe financial crisis , banks find that the declining market value of many of their assets leaves them short of capital . they can not raise much more capital during the crisis , so , in order to restore capital adequacy , stop making new loans , and call in their outstanding loans , thereby throwing the entire economy – if not the entire global economy – into a tailspin . this problem is rather technical in nature , because it is its solution .
yet , having enjoyed a huge subsidy from moscow , kadyrov rebuilt grozny , providing it with some security . kadyrov also put himself in the spiritual aspirations of the chechen majority . he rejected wahhabism – the ideological framework of jihadists . but he maintained that islam is an essential part of the chechen tradition , presenting himself as a leader who fully understood this . so he encouraged an islamic dress code and built a huge mosque – one of the largest , if not the largest , in europe .
village housing must be provided at massive levels . roads , airports , and communications systems must also be revitalized if trade is to be restored . the education system needs to be rebuilt almost from scratch , and with so many women anxious to return to teaching , a revived education system will also help afghanistan ’s democratic politicians gain a powerful lobby of workers . special attention should be given to elementary schools and libraries outside cities . afghanistan poses special difficulties in reconstruction , because it is not a society with a strong political center .
what i have just described is no mere hypothetical . in fact , it is a capsule depiction of the united states federal reserve and the european central bank . one popular explanation for the two banks ’ different approaches is that they stem from their societies ’ respective historical experiences . the banks ’ institutional personalities reflect the role of collective memory in shaping how officials conceptualize the problems they face . the great depression of the 1930s , when the fed stood idly by as the economy collapsed , is the molding event seared into the consciousness of every american central banker .
not one of his new york times commentaries in the first half of 2013 , when “ austerian ” deficit-cutting took effect , forecast a major reduction in unemployment , or that economic growth would recover to brisk rates . on the contrary , “ the disastrous turn toward austerity has destroyed millions of jobs and devastated many lives , ” he argued , with the american congress exposing americans to “ the imminent threat of severe economic damage from short-term spending cuts . ” as a result , “ full recovery still looks very long off . ” and i ’m starting to worry that it may never happen . ” i raise all of this because krugman took a victory lap in his end-of-2014 column on “ the obama recovery . ”
even though many of them are in trouble , it is probably not the best time to start a new car company , either . yet while the market for new cars has slowed dramatically , it could be a good time to start a business replacing gasoline engines with electric ones . the group ’s initiative , led by räsänen , is called ecars – now ! a small operation in finland , it is less a company than a role model for companies that the team hopes to spring up globally . borrowing from the open-software movement , räsänen , and his colleagues want to make the idea and basic designs free , and encourage lots of companies everywhere to implement it locally .
but i think that there is more wishful thinking than hardheaded logic among those calling for a “ color revolution . ” consider , for example , that no one has ever developed a precise way to measure whether and how effectively a government is effective . if the criterion of effectiveness is the ability to achieve all goals of society , we are probably never going to find such a thing . the united states , with a government that can hardly be described as weak , bungled the war in iraq , and the aftermath of hurricane katrina . compared to these failures , vladimir putin ’s achievements in chechnya look like the height of success .
these and other funding streams have helped african researchers develop drought-resistant crops , produce vaccines for infectious diseases like ebola , and expand opportunities for science and technology education . unfortunately , many african governments lack the resources to fund programs that could build on these gains . simply put , a new , more collaborative approach to african science is urgently needed . africa ’s leaders pooled their science resources before they did . in 2003 , the african union and the new partnership for africa ’s development began implementing a continent-wide strategy “ to develop and harness science and technology for the continent ’s socioeconomic transformation and integration into the global economy . ”
london – five years after the collapse of the american investment bank lehman brothers , the world has not yet addressed the fundamental cause of the subsequent financial crisis – an excess of debt . and that is why the economic recovery has progressed far more slowly than anyone expected ( in some countries it has not come at all ) . most economists , central bankers , and regulators not only failed to foresee the crisis , but also believed that financial stability was assured so long as inflation was low and stable . and , once the immediate crisis was contained , we failed to foresee how painful its consequences would be . official forecasts in the spring of 2009 predicted neither a slow recovery nor that the initial crisis , which was essentially confined to the united states and the united kingdom , would soon fuel a knock-on crisis in the eurozone .
the big difference is that the uk will lose its voice at the table . for britons in the “ remain ” camp , such a transition will allow the uk to stay in the eu in all but name . and for some of those in the “ leave ” camp , it is a way to exit without falling off a cliff edge . the third agreement in phase two will center around a roadmap for uk-eu relations after 2021 . this will not be a free-trade agreement , but rather a political declaration about where both sides hope to end up .
the islamic world is riven by disputes between arab and non-arab , sunni , and shia , as well as salafi extremists and theological moderates . al qaeda ’s agenda is as much about creating a new islamic caliphate as it is about waging jihad against the west . fourth , europeans find it hard to stomach traditional islamic attitudes toward , say , women or homosexuals . muslims find it hard to see how we can believe that our societies are civilized when pornography and drunkenness are openly displayed . to the extent that europeans are christian at all , we see religion as an individual ’s relationship with his or her god ; muslims view it as an organizing social principle .
yanukovych had always been the kremlin ’s ally , and he was the kremlin ’s ally . indeed , his 2010 election marked the end of ukraine ’s pro-european orange revolution , which defeated his effort to steal the 2004 presidential election and keep ukraine in the russian camp . so why did the eu press for an association agreement without offering ukraine anything comparable to what russia offered ? the answer can be found in europe ’s relationship with russia . with the collapse of the soviet union , russia not only lost its status as a world power ; within europe , it was forced to withdraw toward a frontier that it has extended westward since peter the great – ultimately to the elbe and thuringia .
what is needed for high performance ? basically , it is productive change , which i call economic dynamism . for employees to develop , they must be imbedded in stimulating the workplace , with new problems to solve , more difficult tasks to be mastered , added skill to strive for . less obviously , a country does not want misguided or pointless change ; it wants investment that appears to be the financial sector as productive . the late 1990 ’s produced evidence that low dynamism was associated with weak economic performance , particularly low prosperity .
first , because most technology-based monopoly power does not violate existing antitrust laws , regulating it will require new measures to weaken monopolies . new concepts of public interest are also needed to regulate new channels of public information , such as social networks . second , standard views of business income and wealth taxation will have to be tailored to account for it by firms ’ monopoly power . and , third , laws intended to protect private information should be reevaluated to ensure that companies are unable to profit from exploiting and manipulating it . above all , the public must develop a deeper understanding of the economic effects of it , particularly how technologies that have improved the lives of so many enriching the lives of so few .
geneva – with france launching its third “ humanitarian ” military operation in as many years , this time in the central african republic – interventionism that seemed discredited after america ’s invasion of iraq – seems to have returned as an accepted norm in international affairs . indeed , decades of relentless intervention have shifted the terms of debate , with recent operations justified by their own ability rather than merit . to understand how this shift has occurred is to see why , more often than not , such intervention has failed to achieve its goals . as france ’s recent actions demonstrate , intervention today requires nothing more than unilateral decree on humanitarian or counterterrorism objectives , an atmosphere of urgency , and an ambiguous link to ongoing united nations deliberations . a military operation might also be mentioned to the un security council , but only after the council ’s decision can no longer significantly affect events on the ground .
he argues that economists have become blind to catastrophic macro failure , because they mistook the beauty or elegance of theoretical models for truth . both coase and krugman bemoan the neglect of their profession ’s patrimony – a tradition dating at least to adam smith – that valued grand and unifying theories of political economy and moral philosophy . the contemporary obsession with reductionist and mechanical models seems to have driven the profession from theory toward ideology , putting it out of touch with the real economy . simplicity and elegance of micro and macro models make them useful in explaining the price mechanism and the balance or imbalance of key aggregate economic variables . but both models are unable to describe or analyze the actual behavior of key market participants .
after all , such no-strings-attached databases do not just facilitate sharing ; they enable stealing . the question of how to regulate access to genetic sequence data is cropping up in international discussions , including at the world health organization and the organization for food and agriculture . perhaps the most important forum for such discussions is the conference of parties to the convention on biological diversity , the major treaty regulating access to biodiversity . the next meeting ( cop 13 ) will take place in cancún , mexico , early december . participants at cop 13 must focus on the need to protect resource providers ’ rights .
demand growth at a pace that would be seen in any previous decade as highly satisfactory is suddenly desperately insufficient , and bush is being blamed ( with some justice ) for slack labor markets that resulted . but for everyone except bush – and those left unemployed by a lag in demand – it is an extraordinary opportunity . the remarkable boost to productivity that has been within america ’s grasp will ultimately lead to accelerating growth in real gains and real wages if only american policymakers resist the temptation to pursue politically expedient but economically damaging measures to “ protect ” output and employment . as the world ’s leaderless economy , america faces the hardest work in ensuring growth , for it must create – not just copy and adjust – new technologies , better forms of capital , and more productive business organizations . if america can grow as fast as it is now , that is very good news for other , less-developed economies , especially given that one powerful effect of the ongoing technological revolutions in computers and communications is to make it much easier to participate in the global division of
to avoid another public backlash , these platforms must make us serve not just as consumers , but also as entrepreneurs , workers , and citizens . at a time of unprecedented global challenges – including climate change and high levels of inequality – this must include using the unprecedented power of platform leadership to catalyze global-scale solutions . earlier this year , artificial-meat producer beyond meat celebrated a rapturous stock-market debut . rather than focusing on meeting rising meat demand by scaling up factory-farming operations , as companies have done in the past , it – and similar companies , such as impossible foods – are working to help reduce overall meat consumption , a major driver of climate change . this is propelling the latest shift in corporate “ “ alt-meat ” – focused not only on scaling up more wisely , but also on becoming wiser about what to scale .
ontario – this december , trade ministers from around the world converge in buenos aires for the world trade organization ’s 11th ministerial conference . with the united states having historically led the world toward trade liberalization now actively stoking trade tensions , the meeting is set to be opposed by any other . wto ministerial gatherings are never easy . some kind of agreement is usually delivered , but only at the last moment , and its language is often vague . this time , however , the outcome might be even more disappointing , with delegates unable to reach even a symbolic agreement that they can tout with an aggressive marketing campaign .
poland introduced such a law in 1998 , and in the czech republic , poland introduced such a law . similar norms exist in the czech republic , hungary , latvia , and lithuania . by obscuring the role that local populations played in both nazi and communist crimes , such laws help advance nationalist narratives , which can prove very handy for politicians seeking to win popular support . for one , the pis has gained substantial electoral support , thanks partly to its exploitation of past tragedies for political ends . there are more extreme cases than poland .
instead , reform proposals have opted for a mix of higher capital requirements for leading banks and pre-funding of deposit insurance by a special levy on banks . there seems little appetite for proposals to vary capital-adequacy requirements counter-cyclically . this would enable capital buffers to be created in good years , which could then be drawn down in bad years . admittedly , there are difficulties with all proposals to limit the scope of “ risky ” banking , especially with a global economy with free capital mobility . as is often pointed out , unless banking regulations are identical across borders , there will be ample scope for “ regulatory arbitrage . ”
new york – america ’s 2010 health-care reform act , president barack obama ’s signature 2010 health-care reform , succeeded in expanding insurance coverage to millions of americans who would not otherwise have it . and , contrary to critics ’ warnings , it has not pushed health-care costs up ; in fact , there is some hope that the cost curve may finally be bending downward . but whether “ obamacare ” succeeds in curbing excessively high health-care costs is not assured . that will depend on the obama administration ’s other policies , particularly in an area that might seem unrelated : the united states ’ ongoing discussions with india over intellectual property . and here , obama seems determined to undermine his own signature reform , owing to pressure from america ’s powerful pharmaceutical lobby .
likewise , cutting fiscal support ( via government-directed bank lending ) to zombie firms would free up fiscal capacity and enable resources to be redirected to new sectors that facilitate services and urban employment ; but this would exacerbate – at least at first – today ’s demand shortfall . slashing the state sector abruptly and expecting to achieve transformation through austerity is not the way forward . economic historians , notably michael a. bernstein , in his study of the great depression in the united states , have shown convincingly that an economy in transition requires strong aggregate demand to pull resources into new sectors . if both the old and new sectors of the economy are in a slump , capital formation will sputter , investment in upgrading human capital will decline , and structural adjustment will stall . robust aggregate demand is always essential to successful transformation .
london – how radically will digital currencies change our methods of exchange ? with innovation in digital payments barreling ahead , these questions are now commanding the world economic forum ’s attention and other international institutions . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
bangalore – us secretary of state john kerry ’s valiant effort to save the israeli-palestinian peace process is about to end failure . though achieving a substantive settlement was always a pipe dream , this latest disappointment will render the united states unable to preserve even the façade of a “ peace process ” that has been all the process and no peace . and that might not be such a bad thing . negotiations are failing for several reasons , beginning with israel ’s continued colonization of lands occupied in 1967 , despite opposition from the international community , including the us . if anything , israel has accelerated settlement construction since the latest round of talks began , while escalating its demands , particularly regarding israeli troops ’ stationing in jordan ’s valley .
her request was refused , as was her earlier plea in 2006 to suspend her sentence until her two small sons reached age 14 – a request she was authorized to make under russian law . vasily aleksanyan was executive vice president of yukos , and , as a lawyer , defended khodorkovsky and his partner , platon lebedev , after their arrest in 2003 . he was subsequently disbarred , and was arrested in april 2006 . by that time , aleksanyan was critically ill with aids , for which treatment was withheld . in december 2008 , the moscow city court approved its release on bail out 50 million rubles ( around $ 1,775,000 at that time ) .
moreover , they need this by the end of the year to avoid further damage from the large tariff hikes currently scheduled to take effect on december 15 . that timeline requires that both sides start taking symbolic and substantive steps immediately . as a first step , china should propose an agreement using the same text as the previous 150-page draft , but with revisions to satisfy its three “ red lines . ” specifically , china should remove america ’s provisions for maintaining tariffs after the agreement is signed , and for unilaterally imposing tariffs if the us concludes that china is not honoring the agreement . and it should add a commitment that china will execute the agreement in a way that is “ consistent with its constitutional , legislative , and regulatory processes . ”
princeton – most of today ’s advanced economies became what they are by traveling the well-worn path of industrialization . the progression of manufacturing industries – textiles , steel , automobiles – emerged from the ashes of traditional craft and guild systems , transforming agrarian societies into urban ones . peasants became factory workers , a process that underpinned not only the unprecedented rise in economic productivity , but also the wholesale revolution in social and political organization . the labor movement led to mass politics , and ultimately to political democracy . over time , manufacturing ceded its place to services .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
and , of course , this average does not include the fukushima disaster . indeed , when compared to other sources of energy , nuclear power ranks higher than oil , coal , and natural gas systems in terms of fatalities , second only to hydroelectric dams . there have been 57 accidents since the chernobyl disaster of 1986 , and we have been killed by the us . while only a few fatalities have been involved , those that collectively killed more people than they died in commercial american airline accidents since 1982 . another nuclear-power accident index – this one including costs beyond death and property damage , such as injured or irradiated workers and malfunctions , which have not resulted in shutdowns or leaks – documented 956 incidents from 1942 to 2007 .
this may no longer be so easy , once the us is no longer seen as a reliable protector and fear of china turns into a panic . unlike some of her predecessors as chancellor , merkel , who grew up in east germany , is wary of russia ’s strategic designs . there is no doubt that russia and china will benefit , at least in the short term , from america ’s abdication of leadership . some people are not too bothered by this . russia is closer to berlin or even paris than washington or new york .
but , if a deal is negotiated well , the end result brings significantly more benefits than costs . and that would have been the case with the colombian accord , which addresses a vast array of social and economic issues , including problems affecting indigenous communities , gender equality , gay rights , and the millions displaced by more than a half-century of fighting . the deal also included an historic land-reform program . for uribe and his opposition allies , the main objection to the deal concerns how it addresses the question of transitional justice . negotiators decided that the unconditional application of justice would be impossible .
the us , for example , was wrong to invade iraq in 2003 , but it was right to join the fight against isis , and to rescue the yazidis from the massacre . it was right to attack the occupied city of mosul , but it was wrong to downsize the city to dust . it was also wrong to call for the overthrow of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , because the forces opposed assad lacked the necessary popular support , and the us was not prepared to help them win that support . on the other hand , helping the syrian kurds was a good idea , because they were effective fighters with strong support from their own people ; and they probably would not have survived under an isis caliphate . elsewhere , it is right to strengthen south korean and japanese defenses , but obviously wrong to threaten a nuclear war .
the trouble began at the cold war ’s end , when the collapse of bankrupt communist ideology was also very interpreted as the triumph of the market . as communism was discarded , so was the concept of the state as an agent around which our collective interests and ambitions could be organized . the individual became the ultimate agent of change – an individual conceived as the type of rational actor that populates economists ’ models . such individual identity is derived not from class interests or other sociological characteristics , but from the market logic that dictates maximization of self-interest , whether as a producer , a consumer , or a voter . indeed , economics was placed on a pedestal and enshrined in institutions like central banks and competition authorities , which were intentionally separated and made independent from politics .
madrid – june ’s turkish general election sent a powerful message : turkey ’s democracy remains intact . indeed , while there were some grievances about transparency during the campaign process , democracy prevailed , with an astonishing 86 % of eligible voters turning out – a rate rarely seen in europe . the rest of the world – and especially the european union – should take note . with their votes , turkey ’s citizens denied the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) the absolute majority it needed to amend the constitution . moreover , by giving the peoples ’ democratic party ( hdp ) – which brings together the country ’s long-marginalized kurdish minority and other groups – more than 10 % of the vote , they allowed the party to enter parliament for the first time , with representation throughout the country , not just in kurd-majority areas .
if successful , a refugee has the right to bring her or her family members together as well . often , arab families send their minors to germany in the not-unjustified hope that they will get the right for other family members to follow later . germany will have to deal with the consequences of this refugee wave for years to come . to distribute the burden more equitably , germany has tried to have a european quota system , instituted to allocate applicants among eu member countries . but germany ’s eu partners have rejected this as “ moral imperialism . ”
washington , dc – anyone watching the united states ’ presidential race needs to understand that national opinion polls do not provide an accurate picture of how the election could turn out . thanks to america ’s electoral college , it is not who wins the most votes nationwide that matters , but who wins in which states . each state is awarded a certain number of votes in the electoral college , depending on the size of its population . the candidate who crosses the threshold of 270 electoral votes wins the presidency . in almost every state , a candidate who wins 50.1 % of the popular vote is awarded 100 % of its electoral vote .
new york – the prospect that the american federal reserve will start exiting zero policy rates later this year fueled growing fear of renewed volatility in emerging economies ’ currencies , bond and stock markets . the concern is understandable : when the fed signaled in 2013 that the end of its quantitative-easing ( qe ) policy came to a head , the resulting “ taper tantrum ” sent shock waves through many emerging countries ’ financial markets and economies . indeed , rising interest rates in the united states and the ensuing likely rise in the value of the dollar could be feared , wreak havoc among emerging markets , financial institutions , corporations , and even households . because all of these dollars have borrowed in dollars in the past few years , they will now face an increase in the real local-currency value of those debts , while rising american rates will push emerging markets ’ domestic interest rates higher , thereby pushing debt-service costs further . but , while the fed ’s interest-rate hikes are likely to generate significant turbulence in emerging countries ’ financial markets , the risk of outright crises and distress is
faced with american unilateralism , he has failed to promote realistic multilateral solutions . on the contrary , despite being right about iraq , chirac has become isolated , an isolation that has grown , because he has also failed to re-establish satisfactory relations with president bush . indeed , under chirac , france seems increasingly arrogant , a nation convinced of the righteousness of its views and the universality of its model – very charges so often levelled against george w. bush ’s america . chirac compounded his errors over iraq in his approach to the new european commission . on the old commission headed by romano prodi , france powerfully represented itself , with pascal lamy holding the us trade portfolio .
and expanding global population – set to reach more than 9.5 billion by 2050 – will strain water resources further . urgent action is needed to ensure access to safe , affordable water , and sanitation for all . first , drastic improvements in water-related services – including supply and sanitation , irrigation , and drainage , energy , and environmental facilities – are needed to improve health outcomes and enable more people to escape poverty . governments should take the lead in ensuring careful management and sustainable use of scarce water resources . water-intensive food and energy production – among others – depends on uninterrupted supplies .
while iran ’s leaders have often downplayed the impact of sanctions , president mahmoud ahmadinejad recently cited them as the primary culprit behind iran ’s economic turmoil . but iran faced similar economic hardship before – in the 1980 ’s , oil exports fell substantially amid the country ’s eight-year war with iraq , and in 1986-2000 , global oil prices were extraordinarily low – and handled them relatively well . four factors made the oil embargo particularly unbearable today . first , prohibiting oil exports is more painful when world oil prices are rising . ahmadinejad benefited from a massive spike in oil prices , resulting in unprecedented earnings .
not only has iran developed its nuclear capabilities while the npt party , the israelis will say , but it has also put israel ’s destruction high on its agenda . israel ’s nuclear deterrence is its ultimate defense against an existential threat . across-the-board nuclear equality can ultimately only boost iran ’s nuclear claims . india and pakistan , unlike israel , which has been committed to a strategy of nuclear opacity , both see themselves as nuclear-armed states and want the world to accept that status . moreover , israel has never tested a nuclear weapon , and has unequivocally accepted the nuclear suppliers group ( nsg ) guidelines that seek to stem proliferation through nuclear control . israel expects the obama administration not only to appreciate the unique context of its ambiguous nuclear status , but also to recognize that it can not be forthcoming in assuring its neighbors or the rest of the world regarding its nuclear program unless the middle east ’s political environment changes in radically positive ways .
whatever the ultimate economic effects of china ’s first modest step toward floating its currency , one must admire its strategic brilliance . the genius of china ’s mini-move ( allowing the yuan to rise 2 % against the dollar ) is that no one can tell when or what happens next . protectionists in the united states and europe , itching to slap huge punitive tariffs on chinese goods , have been caught flat-footed . they want to keep bathing in press coverage , but if they push their china-bashing too far and too fast , protectionists will be perceived as hindering delicate behind-the-scenes negotiations . but no one knows whether china ’s baby step is the start of something much bigger , because china ’s authorities hint one day and deny the next .
here , too , obama , in particular , will soon understand that hollande has no intention of bringing sweeping change . on the contrary , his intention will be to appear as a reliable and unsurprising partner . hollande is unlikely to be less friendly with america than sarkozy , regarded by many as france ’s most pro-us president . hollande supported military intervention in libya in 2011 , and joined with the condemnation of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime . one of his close political allies recently declared that he should the united nations security council approve military intervention in syria , france “ could envision ” participating in that effort .
deflation -- a steady ongoing collapse in prices -- gave companies and consumers powerful incentives to cut spending and hoard cash . it reduced the ability of firms and banks to service their debt , and might trigger a chain of big bankruptcies that destroys confidence in the financial system , providing further hoard incentives . such strong hoard incentives rather than spend can keep demand low and falling , and unemployment high and rising for a much longer time than even the most laissez-faire-oriented politician or economist ever dared to contemplate . hence the keynesian solution : use monetary policy ( lower interest rates ) and fiscal policy ( expanded government spending and cut taxes ) to keep the economy from ever approaching the precipice of deflation becomes possible . but if this is an issue solved more than fifty years ago , why is it haunting us now ?
and of the 50 million children living outside their own countries or internally displaced , more than half have forcibly uprooted them , and are facing new threats to their lives and well-being . millions of children are undernourished and out of school ; millions have witnessed unspeakable brutality ; and millions are threatened with exploitation , abuse , and , worse , the worst of them . this is not rhetoric ; it is reality . the united nations – with support from countries like sweden and , through a coordinated humanitarian-response system comprising unicef – is alleviating suffering whenever and wherever it can . but cascading crises are testing the system that system as never before .
to this end , a coalition of african countries , supported by the united nations economic commission for africa and the new climate economy , is working to facilitate meaningful , coordinated action that puts the entire continent on a more inclusive , sustainable growth path . partnerships with national finance and planning ministers , relevant development-finance institutions , and the private sector will support this process . overcoming the formidable challenge that climate change poses to africa will depend on moments of collective focus and clarity . next month ’s un secretary-general ’s climate summit should be just such a moment , with countries committing to step up their emissions-reduction targets under the 2015 paris climate agreement , so that they can reach net-zero emissions by mid-century . given their heightened vulnerability , african countries have every incentive to set the bar high , thereby placing pressure on others to ramp up their own contributions .
rejecting the european union ’s constitutional treaty by french and dutch voters was , according to all evidence , more rejection of unregulated globalization than was rejection of europe . the widespread instability of social relations – most important , but not only employment – is slowly becoming intolerable for a growing segment of the population in many advanced countries , not just in europe . and there can be no stable economic order – at least not in democratic countries – if electorates reject its underpinnings . after world war ii , capitalism could be reconstituted because it buttressed three necessary types of regulation : social security , which served as the principal stabilizer , at least in the advanced countries ; keynesian tools to fight domestic cyclical downturns ; and a universal high-wage policy aimed at stimulating general consumption , without which the genius of capitalism – mass production – does not work . but realignment of the rich , developed countries around monetarist policies promoted by economists like milton friedman , which began around 1970 , broke with all that .
at the same time , in an age of internet rumors and fake news , the world today can look a bit unmoored from history . that might create a sense of real risk , too . inflation targeting has other effects , which seems to be more on central bankers ’ minds . in his influential 1998 book inflation targeting , ben bernanke and his co-authors advised policymakers to announce a target inflation rate because it “ communicates the central bank ’s intentions , ” which would “ reduce uncertainty . ” the announced rate should be substantially positive , writing because if officials tried to get it close to zero , any mistake could result in deflation , which “ might endanger the financial system and precipitate economic contraction . ”
berkeley – with its ambitious made in china 2025 strategy , china has made clear its goal of securing global economic leadership in advanced technology industries . this places it in direct competition with the united states – which currently leads in those industries – in what is emerging as an undeclared but intensifying cold war over technologies with both commercial and military applications . with its investments in such dual-use technologies , china is seeking more than to compete commercially with the us ; it is also seeking greater military and geopolitical power . and it has deployed a variety of methods – including weak intellectual property ( ip ) protections , technology transfers as a condition for joint ventures with chinese partners , avoidance of export controls , and regulatory harassment – to acquire such technologies from america and other trading partners . china ’s intentions and practices have long been an irritant in sino-american relations .
the berlin wall fell , bringing german reunification , and yugoslavia disintegrating . soon after , czechoslovakia ’s “ velvet divorce ” gave rise to the czech republic and slovakia , which – together with other central and eastern european countries ( including hungary and poland ) – anchored themselves firmly in the west by joining nato and the eu . today , a trade war would damage all economies . but the us – which is relatively less dependent on foreign markets – possesses deeper domestic markets , and is generally more economically resilient than other countries – would do better than most others in a contracting world economy . already , chinese financial markets have suffered , while those in the us have held their own .
the treaty would promote stability in the irish economy and contribute to stabilizing the euro , our currency . it would increase confidence in ireland , allowing the us to increase its existing inward foreign direct investment flows . ratification would also give the us guaranteed access to funding from the european stability mechanism ( esm ) , and it should ever be needed . the esm is ireland ’s insurance policy as we work our way out of the bailout program with the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the ecb , and the international monetary fund ) and return to markets . most important , the fiscal treaty promises to ensure responsible budgeting throughout the eurozone .
in europe , laws to protect personal data are not comprehensive , and much of the rest of the world lacks even rudimentary safeguards . after exploring this issue with legislators in several countries over the last few months , it has become abundantly clear that many have no full grasp of the myriad issues that need to be considered . addressing it is a difficult subject , and doing so is impeded by lobbying efforts and incomplete information . in the short term , young companies should view ethics not as marketing gimmick , but as core concerns . all organizations should invest in ethics officers , or some sort of review process involving people who can assess all of the implications of a great-sounding idea .
the young at shahbag are mainly urban , educated , and middle class ; hifazat derives its support mainly from the rural poor . traditional versus modern , urban versus rural , intellectuals versus the peasantry : these divisions are the stuff of political cliché . but , all too often , clichés become established because they are true . bangladeshi government sympathies are closer to shahbag protesters than to hifazat counter-demonstrators . but it must navigate a difficult path , because both points of view have significant public support .
the real bombshell , however , was the sudden realization of the threat posed by digital currencies to the existing monetary system – not at some later date , but right now . cryptocurrencies have been around for more than a decade , but none has been widely adopted to challenge the existing order . with the potential to mobilize more than two billion monthly active users , facebook could change that . now that the company has thrown down gauntlet , governments should use the opportunity to advance a form of digital currency that serves the public good . even the current monetary system ’s staunchest defenders will admit that it does not work equally well for everyone .
before becoming soviet leader in 1985 , relations between cold war superpowers hit rock bottom . reagan and i were nonetheless able to create a reservoir of constructive spirit through constant outreach and face-to-face interaction . what seems to be missing today are leaders with the boldness and vision to build the trust needed to reintroduce nuclear disarmament as the centerpiece of a peaceful global order . economic constraints and the chernobyl disaster helped spur us action . why has the great recession and the catastrophic meltdown at fukushima daiichi in japan not elicited a similar response today ?
august is the traditional month when parliaments recess for summer . it offers a moment to examine why they are so enfeebled . across europe , it is not only british prime minister tony blair , who is accused of " presidentialism " nowadays . german chancellor gerhard schröder faces the same charge in the current german election campaign . prime minister silvio berlusconi of italy , indeed , does not even like being called prime minister .
first , the new set of external disciplines come hand-in-hand with a particular , neo-liberal model of economic development that remains untested , and will foreclose development strategies that worked in the past , and others that could work in the future . narrowing national autonomy in formulating development strategy is a cost for which developing countries are unlikely to receive an adequate reward . second , it is doubtful that the new policy agenda will make the international financial system much safer . as long as capital flows remain large relative to the liquid assets held by national governments and are easily reversible , the international economy will be hostage to spectacular boom and bust cycles . indeed , by focusing attention on the developing world ’s internal structural reforms , the risk is that the current approach will lead to complacency about short-term capital flows , rather than then to reducing systemic risk .
many news stories about female ceos and other high-achieving women are coded with a set of reliable clichés : they lucked into their new roles ( and thus do not deserve them ) , inherited them from male relatives or spouses ( and thus do not really hold the reins of power ) , or will not be there for long . if all else fails , coverage concentrates so narrowly on the gender that a woman ’s very leadership is weakened . these clichés not only undermine successful women ’s reputations ; in the case of ceos , they also reduce their value to their companies . and all of these clichés were reproduced in the coverage of barra ’s appointment at gm . cnn , for example , covered the story by referring to barra ’s “ knack for climbing the corporate ladder ” – a phrase with some suggestive undertones , and one that would never have been used with a man at the top , for whom , presumably , hard work , talent , ambition , and dedication constitute more than “ knack . ”
few observers expected that china would suddenly transform itself into a full-fledged democracy following its accession to the world trade organization in 2001 . but the country ’s repressive turn over the last decade has been disappointing , however . state-owned enterprises ( soes ) are still favored , books are burned , and the communist party of china continues to assert its primacy in every chinese domain of life . how long this will last is anyone ’s guess . dynasty comes and go , but in 2021 the cpc will mark the centenary of its founding .
more recently , elections in europe ’s post-communist countries have brought groups to power whose democratic credentials are dubious , to say the least . this is not to compare hamas to any of these political forces . one must wonder , however , about a winning movement with a fairly few elected members in israeli prisons and others who are not likely to get permission to enter the country where they were elected to allow the new parliament to function properly . all of this tells us three things about democracy . first , elections rarely solve fundamental problems .
but only one such “ patriot ” was granted the honor of being allowed to perform this act . that is why lugovoi is being asked for his autograph . this should not , of course , be taken to mean that patriots gushing over lugovoi ’s achievement concede the justice of the british allegations . the social awareness of homo putinicus meticulously burnish by television propagandists is such that pride in lugovoi ’s achievement and outrage at the infamous campaign unleashed against him by those who hate russia can jangle within ordinary russians ’ breast without the slightest dissonance . apparently , we are confronted with the mystery of russian thought that has proved so unfathomable to others , so unyielding to every analytical scalpel , and about which our slavophiles and eurasians wrote at length .
and , because inequality of opportunity reduces social mobility from one generation to the next , it creates persistent inequality traps . · removing barriers to opportunity , governments must address the root causes of inequality by identifying and eliminating discriminatory laws , not least those that actually criminalize disadvantage . moreover , given that inequality largely begins in childhood , governments must invest far more in high-quality universal health care and early childhood education . only by supporting the creation of human capital from an early age can we ensure that inequalities in one generation are not passed on to the next . · such investment will require additional domestic resources .
some should be pointed out , so far . spain ’s labor costs have declined substantially since the crisis began . italy has grasped crucially important reforms in areas like pensions . greece has slashed spending by a larger amount , relative to gdp , than any country in europe since world war ii . other reforms – especially political reforms – will be hotly contested .
two bubbles – property and credit – against which american families borrowed freely have long since burst . but aftershocks linger : household-debt loads were still at 113 % of disposable personal income in 2012 ( versus 75 % in the final three decades of the twentieth century ) , and personal-saving rates averaged just 3.9 % last year ( compared to 7.9 % from 1970 to 1999 ) . understandably fixated on balance-sheet repair , american consumers have not taken the bait from their monetary and fiscal authorities . instead , they have slashed back on spending . gains in inflation-adjusted personal-consumption expenditure have averaged just 0.8 % over the last five years – the most severe and protracted slowdown in the post-world war ii consumption-demand growth .
although his motivation , at least partly , may have been a desire for social justice , perón was in effect bribing beneficiaries to support his own rise to power and wealth . with his beautiful and outspoken wife – the “ woman of the people ” – on his side , perón was able to persuade voters in 1946 that , as president , he would fundamentally change the country . he was as good as his word . perón ’s government nationalized banks and railroads , increased the minimum wage , and improved living standards , reduced national debt ( for a while at least ) , and revived the economy . argentina became less reliant on foreign trade , even though the move toward autarky ultimately undermined growth , causing the country to lose its position among the world ’s richest .
eventually , amid street riots and political mayhem , argentina abandoned its currency peg in 2002 . viewed with argentina ’s experience in mind , brazil ’s spending cap looks problematic – all the more so against a backdrop of political turmoil that is set to continue for the foreseeable future . the cap will likely become even more politically controversial once brazil recovers . it is not hard to imagine the next administration – whenever it comes to – that is , to be seen as an obstacle to faster economic growth . the cap ’s defenders will sound unconvincing , because the economic case for it is weak in the absence of extreme credibility problems .
part of this can be explained by misunderstanding of the relationship between stock market prices and economic growth . the strange conventional wisdom developed in the inflationary 1970s and 1980s : that strong economic growth and falling unemployment were bad for share prices . prosperity , it was felt , would incite inflation , provoke high interest rates , triggering a stock-market rout . while experts spent the past two years propounding this thesis quietly restored an older , common-sense rule : prosperity is good for profits , and therefore good for equities . here is one message from markets worth pondering , even for non-investors : political confidence may be at a low ebb in europe ; businesses and consumers may be shell-shocked by the last recession and gloomy about the future ; but judging by the behavior of the market in the years ahead are more likely to resemble the stable and prosperous 1950s and 1960s than the crisis-ridden decades of 1973 to 1989 .
elsewhere , the nigerian association of chambers of commerce , industry , mines , and agriculture ( naccima ) has used its agenda over a few years to coordinate economic reform . in 1999 , this task assumed critical importance , owing to the country ’s opening to democracy . a legislative advisory program is another tool business can use to influence public policy . to shape legislation such programs requires : * sound economic analysis , and background papers readily available for technocrats and others to study ;
currencies collapsed , and the banking sector collapsed . the imf predicted that thailand and others would achieve positive growth in 1998 ( 3 % in thailand , for example ) . now the imf acknowledges that thailand will shrink by around 3 % . its medicine did little to save the economy . the imf mobilized massive amounts of money ( $ 118 billion in all ) for indonesia , korea , and thailand to pay back foreign creditors trying to withdraw their funds .
the obama administration knows the iron law of american politics – “ it ’s the economy , stupid ” – as it is anyone else . but highlighting obama ’s ability to get things done abroad is more than an attempt at distraction ; it also sends the message that the domestic political impasse is not his fault . so expect plenty of foreign-policy news in the coming months . election-year tactics aside , american voters are right . obama has performed far better in foreign policy than in domestic politics , which is all the more surprising given the weak hand he has handled : an america that has lost its moral authority , its military invincibility , and its credibility as an economic model .
but it is just one aspect of europe ’s urgent need to import people from africa and asia . europeans will also see dismantling their welfare states and social-security systems ; cherished “ european model ” of pensions , healthcare , and unemployment benefits are being replaced by the despised and widely feared “ american model . ” needless to say , this is not to say , because europeans crave the rigors of america ’s less cosseted social conditions , but because it is the only way european governments can stay afloat financially . the root cause of all of these developments is europe ’s population shrinkage . the “ demographic time bomb ” that economic analysts have discussed for a decade or more is now exploding .
they feel confirmed in their belief that , for most western governments , outrage over iran ’s terrorist activities counts less than the lure of business . and they watch lee at how europe , japan , and america , rather than acting together , display the weakness of disunity . should a rogue state be allowed to get away with its provocations ? the trouble is : in most cases , it will . the instruments of coercion that states dispose of short military intervention are imperfect , and to be remotely efficient require a degree of international solidarity generated only in exceptional circumstances .
london – a flawed understanding of what drives economic growth has emerged as the gravest threat to european recovery . european policymakers obsessively think that prosperity is synonymous with trade surpluses . this largely explains why germany routinely cited as an example of a strong , “ competitive ” economy . but economic growth , even in traditionally export-led economies , is driven by productivity growth , not by the ability to capture a growing share of global markets . while imports must of course be financed by exports , the focus on trade competitiveness is drawing attention from europe ’s underlying problem – very weak productivity growth .
and the more important battery cells are to electric cars ’ overall value , the stronger agglomeration effect will be . this would be a momentous shift . china currently controls the entire value chain of electric cars , including the cobalt supply , essential raw material in battery manufacturing . as a result , china produces 69 % of the world ’s electric-car cells , the united states 15 % ( at tesla ’s “ gigafactory ” ) , and europe just 4 % . europe , however , could still develop battery production by recycling old electronics , developing new cobalt-saving processes , and discovering alternative mineral deposits .
governments need to reduce bureaucratic red tape so that entrepreneurs can take more risks . but breakthrough technology companies like apple , facebook , and twitter also depend on people with access to well-funded education systems . and while there is a growing “ tech for good ” sectors in europe , it will succeed only if it is supported by up-to-date infrastructure , which generally requires public outlays . policymakers in europe ( and elsewhere ) need to adjust their thinking – especially their fiscal thinking – to put people first . governments that make it their central objective to maximize human wellbeing end up not only encouraging higher economic growth , but also nurturing healthier politics .
the initiative will have to come from the top if the case is to be made within every country for more open markets and for help those facing adjustment . all countries will have to give ; no country can be expected to shoulder the burden alone . pro-trade forces can speak up in the political process . for example , it is untenable in rich countries that accounting for less than 4 % of employment effectively block an agreement to open new markets to services and manufactures , which account for more than 90 % of employment . in developing countries , pro-trade voices could help turn the debate toward opportunities for global integration , rather than emphasizing exceptions .
indeed , iran ’s prompt shia-led support for iraq was intended in part to preempt competition from regional adversaries . but iranian critics of intervention seem to believe that there is a middle way . the inter-sectarian dialogue in iraq and regional compromise with turkey and the gulf states does not necessarily translate into a loss of iranian influence . iran has already countenfied maliki ’s removal in favor of haider al-abadi , and if a broader reconsideration of us policy is needed to quell the threat , so it is . iran ’s hawks might believe that their country is invincible , but fears are mounting that regional overreach could trigger a long list of dangerous consequences .
in houston , authorities were prepared for harvey partly because of lessons learned from hurricane katrina , which devastated new orleans in 2005 . that storm caused 1,833 deaths , while at least 88 were killed during harvard . the impact of lessons learned in india is even more striking . in october 2013 , residents of the state of odisha were early alerted to cyclone phailin ’s arrival . by the time the storm made landfall , many people had already evacuated .
for catalan separatists , this means that they now face what the political scientist hans morgenthau has called the “ a-b-c paradox ” of nationalism . if catalonia wants to leave spain , why should n’t barcelona have the right to leave catalonia ? and why would n’t today ’s “ oppressed ” catalans become tomorrow ’s oppressors to prevent that from happening ? given that the status quo is unstable and independence impossible , many believe that the only solution is more fiscal autonomy for catalonia . but this , too , is unlikely in the near term .
even that futile scenario might be optimistic , because it assumes that talks get off the ground – an impossible feat if israel continues its illegal construction of settlements in the occupied palestinian territories . such activities are not just unjust ; they are violating united nations security council resolution 2334 , adopted almost unanimously last year ( the us , then led by barack obama , abstained ) . that resolution demanded that israel immediately and completely cease all settlement activities in the occupied palestinian territories , including east jerusalem ) – activities that amount to a “ flagrant violation under international law . ” any agreement between israelis and palestinians will require deep concessions by both sides – concessions that leaders on both sides will need to persuade their respective publics to accept . trump ’s son-in-law and adviser , jared kushner , tasked with resolving the conflict , and the trump administration ’s chief negotiator on the issue , jason greenblatt , seems to understand this .
the chinese authorities are well aware of how much their country has benefited from becoming deeply integrated into the global economy . and they are not prepared to risk the foundation of their domestic legitimacy : economic growth . the belt and road initiative ( bri , formerly called one belt , one road ) – which xi baptized “ the project of the century ” – is a true reflection of china ’s strategic choice to strengthen commercial links with the rest of eurasia and africa , seize the opportunity to “ accumulate soft power . ” in doing so , however , china is not openly calling into question the foundations of the liberal order . the remarkable communiqué by world leaders participating in the bri forum in beijing last month committed more than 30 countries and international organizations to promote “ peace , justice , social cohesion , inclusiveness , democracy , good governance , the rule of law , human rights , gender equality , ” and women ’s empowerment .
the question , then , is whether the new leaders , as early as next month , succeed in a new effort to adopt the vital institutional reforms that the enlarged union requires . the best way forward is to focus on essentials . part iii of the blocked constitutional treaty is merely a compendium of the existing eu treaties , which – because these treaties will remain in force regardless of whether they are part of the new document – can be decoupled from the rest . part ii of the stalled document , the charter of fundamental rights , can be postponed . to be sure , this would be painful , because , as eu bureaucracies gain more authority , the eu ’s democratic deficit will widen without clearly defined fundamental rights .
this is true of european nations . but for europe , there is a more profound reason : the transatlantic alliance is needed today than ever , and it is much stronger with britain in europe and europe an equal partner with america . forget the short-term electoral politics there or here . in the long term , this is essentially an alliance of values : liberty , democracy , and the rule of law . as the world changes and opens up across national and cultural boundaries , which values will govern the twenty-first century ?
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . similarly , just a few months ago , two vice ministers of the state petroleum corporation ( ndc ) , transport minister and former head of state petroleum corporation ( ndc ) were all brought to court on charges of selling state assets to private companies at a loss . taken together , these cases point to a high level of state capture – a form of corruption rife in former soviet-bloc countries in which powerful private actors use insiders to gain control over public institutions and assets .
a minority coalition that included the greens would force the csu to compromise on migration issues and climate policy that would be unnecessary otherwise , given the spd ’s inability to die linke ( the left ) and the greens to block legislation . and merkel herself would try to avoid a minority coalition with the fdp to avoid becoming dependent on it . for her part , the fdp would like to participate in such a government precisely that reason . it would then be able to contain merkel ’s red-green affinity . a minority government , whatever its composition , would not necessarily be a bad thing .
one government minister at the cdf noted that the one million chinese tourists who went abroad last year used their credit cards to buy about $ 1 billion worth of goods that they can not obtain at home ( while noting the irony that some of those european and american branded goods are actually manufactured in china ) . china is still a low-income country , with per capita gdp of just $ 14,000 , about one fourth of that in the united states . although beijing and shanghai are relatively prosperous , much poverty remains . it is revealing that achieving the five-year plan ’s goal of eliminating poverty by 2020 requires reducing the number of poor people by $ 55 million , the poverty line is defined as just $ 354 per year , or less than one dollar per day . chinese corporations ’ high level of debt could be a source of financial instability , even though several officials have stressed that they are not worried .
but those who believe that the ccp can defy both internal degenerative dynamics of autocracy and the historical record of failed one-party regimes might benefit from reading leon trotsky , who knew something about revolutions . dictatorships are regarded as indestructible before they fall , trotsky reminds us , but their demise is viewed as inevitable once they are toppled . another explanation is fear of contemplating the unknown . ccp rule may not last , but the alternative – state failure and civil chaos – could be far worse than the status quo . but the record of democratic transitions since 1974 suggests that regime change in china is unlikely to be calamitous .
neusoft began as a low-cost competitor to oracle corporation . after moving on to produce audio equipment , liu jiren , neusoft ’s ceo , began hearing complaints from local hospitals about the high cost of specialized x-ray , mri , ultrasound , and ct-scanning machines ( such as those made by ge , philips , siemens , and toshiba ) . suddenly , a new business was born . liu realized that neusoft could link standard intel chips and its own imaging software to a wide range of digital sensors . neusoft ’s equipment looks like little personal computers with sensors attached .
princeton – by now , everyone knows that germany is calling the shots not just in the eurozone , but across all of europe . inside germany , endless debates about german identity have been used – what one historian called the “ continual dispute about what being german might mean . ” but , in foreign-policy terms , postwar west germany – and , later , reunified germany – was utterly predictable : never against the west ; always for more europe . now , the “ berlin republic ” is very secure about its identity – and seemingly at sea in its dealings with the world . there are structural reasons for this change .
and the oversight that warped kelvin ’s estimate – the possibility that fluid motion could effectively transport heat within the earth ’s interior – has turned out to be critical to understanding plate tectonics and continental drift . startup companies exemplify the potential benefits of risk-taking . while only about 49 % of manufacturing startups and 37 % of information startups survive for four or more years , those that have managed to produce breakthrough innovations . tom watson , jr. , who led ibm through decades of strong growth , is known for having promoted brilliant blunders . as he put it , “ we should have the courage to take risks when thoughtful risks are … . we must forgive the mistakes that have been made because someone was trying to act aggressively in the interest of society . ”
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . netanyahu is the biggest threat .
according to putin , he has rooted in trump ( but , of course , did not interfere with trump ’s behalf ) , because they shared a desire to improve bilateral relations . now , more than ever , putin needs america ’s friendship . though he was reelected president in a landslide in march , his approval rating has since plummeted to 45 % . russians resent mounting economic insecurity brought about by trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , initiated after russia ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 ( a move that initially bolstered putin ’s flagging approval ratings ) . popular discontent in russia has also inflamed the authorities ’ widely reviled pension reform , which includes raising the retirement age .
wall street ( whose interests america ’s treasury represents ) profits from capital market liberalization : they make money as capital flows , as it flows out , and in restructuring that occurs amid the resulting havoc . in south korea , the imf urged selling the country ’s banks to american investors , even though koreans managed their own economies impressively for four decades with higher growth , more stability , and no systemic scandals that marked america ’s financial markets with such frequency . in some cases , american firms bought the banks , held on them until korea recovered , and then resold them , reaping billions of capital gains . in its rush to have westerners bought the banks , the imf forgot one detail : ensuring that south korea could recapture at least a fraction of those gains through taxation . whether american investors had greater expertise in banking in emerging markets may be debatable ; that they had greater expertise in tax avoidance is not .
princeton – on january 1 , derek parfit parfit , one of my generation ’s greatest philosophers , died . just a year earlier , in a poll on a leading philosophy website , parfit was voted by the most important living anglophone philosopher . of all philosophers i have known since i began studying the subject more than 50 years ago , parfit was the closest to genius . getting into a philosophical argument with him was like playing chess with a grandmaster : he had already thought of every response i could make to his arguments , considered several possible answers , and knew the objections to each response as much as the best counters to those objections . parfit was not a household name .
on paper , the hospital appears well staffed and well equipped , but on my rounds there , i found halls and wards deserted and barren . few therapeutic and diagnostic options were available , and the hospital was available . even a basic test like a cat scan would require transportation to another regional hospital . but under-equipped hospitals may not be the greatest obstacle to controlling china ’s aids crisis . equally harmful are the government ’s sensitivity to its own policy failures , and the stigma attached to a disease that is often sexually transmitted .
comparing the outcomes of these two simulations suggests that large export flows of palestinian labor to israel reduce the palestinian economy ’s capacity to export goods by putting upward pressure on wages , undermining competitiveness . these simulations also suggested that continued reliance on exporting labor results in a lower growth potential for the palestinian economy than does a development strategy based on exporting goods . but the level of average incomes in the west bank and gaza will remain far below the latter strategy than in the situation that the israeli labor market gradually reopened for palestinian labor . this confirms the enormous short - and medium-term welfare costs to palestinian society of restricting palestinian workers ’ access to israeli labor markets . what trade policies might boost exports of goods rather than labor ?
addis ababa – when zimbabwe ’s president robert mugabe was deposed in november 2017 , after 30 years in power , many hoped that the economic decline that he oversaw would soon reverse . but , a year and a half later , the economy shows no signs of recovering , owing to the ongoing currency crisis . could blockchain-cryptocurrency be the cure for what ails zimbabwe ? following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
but , in this case , when the son borrows essential elements of his father ’s architectural principles and serves a regime that seeks to use the games for some of the same reasons animated hitler , is he not willingly reflecting those sins ? totalitarian regimes – the nazis , the soviets in 1980 , and now the chinese – desire to host the olympics as a way to signal to the world ’s supremacy . china believes that it has found its own model to develop and modernize , and its rulers regard the games in the same way that the nazis and leonid brezhnev did , as a means of “ selling ” their model to a global audience . obviously , the chinese were politically tone-deaf in choosing an architect whose name carried out such dark historical connotations . the name of speer itself probably did not matter to the officials who chose him .
the way to square this apparent circle is by noting that we love our motherland not because of a misplaced sense of ethnic or racial superiority , but because it stands for noble and universal values . macron can proudly call himself a french patriot , because france gave the world liberté , alité , and fraternité . in the recent dutch election , liberals could argue for respecting immigrants ’ rights because respect and tolerance are traditional dutch values , of which any dutch patriot can be proud . these are examples of what the philosopher jürgen habermas has called constitutional patriotism ( others have called it civic patriotism ) . this philosophical position has practical implications .
carrying out such investigations effectively and without delay would restore the icc ’s credibility and bolster its ability to fulfill its intended role as a powerful force for international justice . to succeed , the icc will need to overcome strong opposition , not only from dictators and warlords , but even from elected leaders , especially us president donald trump . in april , when the icc was determining whether to proceed with its inquiry into war crimes in afghanistan – including any that may have been perpetrated by american forces – the trump administration revoked the court ’s visa . if the icc is to fulfill the role it created , it can neither bow to such pressure nor allow its deficient performance to continue . instead , its leaders – particularly its chief prosecutor , gambian attorney fatou bensouda – must take recent criticism as motivation , demonstrating that they are up to the task .
new york – capital-account regulations have been at the center of global financial debates for two years . the reasons are clear : since the world has experienced a “ multi-speed recovery , ” as the international monetary fund puts it , slow-growth advanced countries are maintaining very low interest rates and other expansionary monetary policies , while rapid growth in emerging economies unwinding expansionary policies that they adopted during recessions . this asymmetry has spurred massive capital flows from the former to the latter , which are likely to continue . emerging economies worry that this flood of capital will drive up their currencies ’ exchange rates , in addition to fueling current-account deficits and asset bubbles that past experience has taught them is a sure recipe for future crises . compounding the problem , one of the countries ’ expansionary policies is the united states , which has the world ’s largest financial sector and issues the paramount global currency .
greenpeace , together with other organizations , has opposed the use of genetically modified organisms ( gmos ) , has campaigned against the introduction of beta carotene , which is converted into the human body into vitamin a. moore ’s mortality figures seem to be on the high side , but there is no doubting the severity of vitamin a deficiency among children , especially in parts of africa and southeast asia . according to the world health organization , it causes blindness in some 250,000-500,000 pre-school children every year , about half of whom die within 12 months . the deficiency also increases susceptibility to diseases like measles , still a significant cause of death in young children , even though one that is declining as a result of vaccination . in some countries , lack of vitamin a is also a major factor in high maternal mortality rates during pregnancy and childbirth .
so what lessons does history have to teach us about our current global economic predicament ? in 1829 , john stuart mill made the keynesian intellectual leap in figuring out how to fight what he called “ general gluts . ” mill saw that excess demand for some particular set of assets in financial markets mirrored the excess supply of goods and services in product markets , which in turn generated excess supply of workers in labor markets . the implication of this was clear . if you relieved excess demand for financial assets , you also cured excess supply of goods and services ( the shortfall of aggregate demand ) and excess supply of labor ( mass unemployment ) .
no single actor – be it government , a university research laboratory , ngo , an entrepreneur , or a group of investors – can solve today ’s truly big problems alone . it is a gap seen in areas as diverse as health care , education , and the fight against climate change . that is why zuckerberg ’s initiative was designed for maximum flexibility , allowing funds to be channeled into non-profits , channeled into private investment , or used to help influence policy debates . similarly , bec has pledged to boost others ’ work by adopting “ a flexible , early-stage approach , providing seed , angel , and series of investments , with the expectation that once these investments de-risk , traditional commercial capital will invest in later stages . ” of course , not even billionaires can solve the world ’s problems on their own .
american populists , perhaps inspired by thomas piketty ’s writings , seem unimpressed by the fact that globalization has lifted hundreds of millions of desperately poor people in china and india into the global middle class . the liberal view of asia ’s rise is that it makes the world a fairer and more just place where a person ’s economic fate does not depend quite enough on where they happen to have been born . but a more cynical view permeates populist logic , namely that in its excessive adherence to globalism , the us has sown the seeds of its own political and economic devastation . trumpism taps into this sense of national mortality ; here is someone who thinks that it can do something about it . the goal is not just to “ bring home ” american jobs , but to create a system that broadens american dominance .
one approach would enhance deterrence by bolstering conventional south korean and american forces and reintroducing tactical nuclear weapons in the south . but more conventional power would add little to capable forces already on the ground , bringing nuclear weapons back to south korea would only make both sides more anxious ( and offshore american naval nuclear forces already pack enough punch to reinforce deterrence ) . another approach would seek to normalize diplomatic relations , on the assumption that this could enhance communication , thereby diminishing the nuclear threat . but , in such a scenario , north korea could hold relations hostage to such outsize demands as withdrawal of us forces from the region and economic and energy assistance to prop up the regime . ultimately , north korea ’s stalinist government will rebuff any effort that encroaches on the isolation it needs to remain in power .
so the populist backlash in latin america – in brazil , bolivia , ecuador , and , most disastrously , venezuela – took a left-wing form . the story is similar in the main two exceptions to the right-wing resurgence in europe – greece and spain . in greece , the main political fault line has been austerity policies imposed by european institutions and the international monetary fund . in spain , most migrants until recently came from culturally similar latin american countries . in both countries , the far right lacked breeding ground elsewhere .
british and american negotiators met secretly with libyan counterparts to resolve the case for the 1988 bombing of pan am flight 103 over lockerbie , scotland , and other issues of terrorism . in the quid pro quo that followed , qaddafi agreed to eliminate his nascent nuclear program in exchange for an end to pariah status . this was coupled with a critical demand : no deal without america ’s commitment to eschew regime change . on december 19 , 2003 , libya formally renounced all wmd efforts . eight years later , pinned by a us predator drone and french airstrikes , qaddafi met his demise .
botswana ’s incredible annual per capita income growth of roughly 13 % in the past decade was accompanied by a decline from nearly six children per woman to less than four . why is rapid population growth bad for a country ’s standard of living ? the math is simple : more people means that ( on average ) everyone gets less . a growing population dilutes not only the accumulation of physical capital , but also human capital . the quality of children in poor households goes down as their quantity goes up , because poor families with many children are unable to invest enough in each child ’s education to ensure that future adults benefit from a key determinant of economic success .
like it or not , they can not do that as the brigade of flower children ; they need to pick leaders who can speak for them and negotiate for them . the modernizers need to form a coherent force – and most likely a political party – rather than simply relying on the wisdom ( and good behavior ) of crowds to govern the country . that does not mean that activists should abandon the cause . but it does mean understanding that even democracy has many rules – ideally rules that a majority has chosen . but they are mostly not chosen directly ; those rules generally reflect compromises among elected representatives who can argue and negotiate in person , reflecting the overall preferences of those who elected them . that may sound a bit like the old system .
rising incomes ; growing demand for health care , childcare , and elder care in aging societies ; and investment in infrastructure , energy , and technology will create new job opportunities . given the sector-led and occupational distribution of these opportunities , women may be slightly better positioned to take advantage of them . assuming that current gender occupational and sectoral patterns hold , women could have access to 20 % more jobs than they do today , compared to 19 % for men . this slight advantage for women reflects robust growth that is expected in sectors like health care , where women are well represented . in fact , in many countries , women account for more than 70 % of health-care and social-assistance workers , and this sector could comprise one-quarter of future job opportunities for women ( manufacturing accounts for a similar share of potential job gains for men ) .
i myself once witnessed putin courting culture , and i have been seeing it . it was new year ’s eve 2003 , during a concert at the newly opened music house in moscow . directly across the aisle from me , putin was sitting between a one-time dissident cellist and conductor mstislav rostropovich and his equally famous wife , opera diva galina vishnevich . russia ’s leader was like a candy store – thrilled to be surrounded by these cultural icons , former exiles no less . and the icons were obviously flattered by putin ’s adoration ( and by their proximity to power ) .
but gdp growth soon began to deteriorate rapidly . in an effort to revive growth in a difficult global environment and buffer exports against the impact of the asian financial crisis , the chinese government loosened monetary and fiscal policy in early november 1997 . but it was too little too late to do so . by 1998 , when cpi inflation began to fall , producer prices had already been declining for eight months , and remained negative for a total of 51 months , with cpi growth beginning to recover after 39 months . an obvious lesson is that the government should switch to loosening earlier , more forcefully .
so have we now moved from piketty ’s r & d world to blanchard ’s r & d world ? if so , can their views be reconciled ? the answer is no and yes . piketty and blanchard ’s views can indeed be reconciled , because they talk about different interest rates . while blanchard focuses on the low-risk government bonds rate , piketty is concerned with a return on risky capital investments .
banks have not failed , and there is no sign of tumbling dominicans . but that is not because banks prepared themselves by raising more capital . on the contrary , compared to their likely future losses , european banks have recently raised relatively little capital – and much of this has been creative accounting , rather than genuinely loss-absorbing shareholder equity . perhaps the risk that a greek debt restructuring would trigger a financial meltdown has always been minimal , with quiescent markets expected to be . but , in that case , why all fuss ?
in the scandinavian countries , as opposed to , say , germany and the us , the government , not individual companies , is responsible for most social benefits . that way , economically irrational lock-in effects , whereby workers simply can not afford to change jobs , are avoided . moreover , the benefits are generous enough to ensure that the short period of unemployment does not force workers to sell their homes or even cars . the system protects not only the unemployed , who can continue to pay their mortgages and interest , but also indirectly the banks , because their loans to households are repaid even in times of recession . and , instead of solving all kinds of economic caused private problems , laid-off workers can concentrate on finding new and more future-oriented jobs .
the irony is that this advice comes after much of their former productive capacity disappeared . but , having suffered currency and capital-account crises with greater openness , many emerging-market economies still feel compelled to accumulate huge reserves to protect themselves in the face of greater global financial volatility . while financial globalization has not boosted growth , it has exacerbated volatility and instability . meanwhile , the national “ policy space ” for economic recovery has shrunk since the crisis . public investment and basic social protection can help turn this around , by creating millions of jobs .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . one aspect of this supposed moral and cultural decline concerns the family : “ to attack the family ’s institution , to regard it with contempt or to doubt its important role , ” the pope and the grand imam state , “ is one of the most threatening evils of our era . ” the document asserts that the family is the “ fundamental nucleus of society and humanity ” and “ is essential in bringing children into the world , raising them , educating them , and providing them with solid moral formation and domestic security . ”
addis ababa – with nearly 60 % of its population under age 25 , africa is the world ’s youngest region . yet it is widely recognized that young people are often left behind . they often face inadequate economic opportunities , and may also be socially or politically excluded . unless youth socioeconomic and political engagement are addressed , achieving many of the united nations sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) will be impossible . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
in the nineteenth century , no country took more land from china than russia did , and the current demographic situation in the far east – where russia ’s six million population and the chinese side of the border is up to 120 million – is fueling anxiety in moscow . russia ’s economic decline has increased its concern about the rise of china . while trade has increased , investment lags , and russia ranks only one-tenth among china ’s export markets . as the economist recently reported , russia worries about becoming an alliance ’s junior partner – more dependent on china than it is on china . according to feng yujun of fudan university , “ the most important relationship for the us is america ’s .
florence – in phaedrus ’s well-known fable wolf and lamb , wolf could easily eat the lamb without a word , but rather prefer to set out his “ reasons . ” first , he scolds the lamb because he muddying his drinking water ( even though wolf was upstream ) . he then argues that last year , lamb called him bad names ( but the lamb was just six months old ) . wolf then snarls that if it was not the lamb , it was his father ; after that , he immediately moves into action . wolf ’s “ justifications ” for his evil action were a luxury .
arlington , virginia – the election left one of the world ’s largest countries deeply divided , handing the presidency to military-loving , minority-bullying , media-bashing firebrand promising to smash a corrupt establishment . i am not talking about the 2016 american presidential election that put donald trump in power , but rather the 2018 election in brazil , won by the so-called trump of the tropics , jair bolsonaro , formally inaugurated on january 1 . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
she then proceeded quickly to yield a long celebratory speech about america ’s heroism of soldiers “ fighting for freedom ” abroad . it seemed odd – and to many offensive – transition : from king ’s great plea to civil rights to palin ’s sentimental clichés about the military . but then something odd was made about the entire event , just as something odd about the tea party movement itself was made . this latest surge of american populism is financed by some extraordinarily wealthy men , including a few oil billionaires named david and charles koch , who favor cutting taxes for the super-rich and abolishing government subsidies to the poor , such as social security and president barack obama ’s health-care plan . this agenda might seem selfish , though understandable from the standpoint of the oil billionaire .
the start of his papacy finds populist governments in vulnerable situations , hit hard by chávez ’s recent death . they all have their own identities and strengths , of course , but they will miss out on the protection of chávez ’s global influence , as well as his subsidies . moreover , they rule countries where catholics are an overwhelming majority . although the degree of their religious commitment varies , they share a strong emotional attachment to the faith , which gives francis considerable political leverage . latin america will no doubt be one of francis ’s priorities .
the us must lead the world by deed , and by acting as a global power , by acting as a whole . ” but obama can not do it alone – and so far , neither the american public nor the american congress seems committed to reconnecting with its moral compass . it should be unacceptable , for example , for the us congress to block the release of 86 guantánamo bay detainees cleared by the us national-security committee . not even revelations by former us intelligence contractor edward snowden that no one is exempt from the possibility of american surveillance stirred americans to demand a new approach . the answer to the second major question shaping the world ’s future – whether china will regain its economic momentum – also appears to be “ no , ” at least in the short term , with most experts agreeing that china ’s export – and investment-led growth model has all but exhausted its potential .
substantive and remarkable progress has been made , however . moreover , someday , we will know – through sequencing the entire genome – about rarer genomic variations that are correlated with treatment response or spillover effects . this has paved the way for next-generation pharmacies . genotyping can now be accomplished in 20 minutes , and over time will get even faster . to fill a prescription for a drug with a known pharmacogenomic profile , a customer can get rapid genotyping to determine appropriate doses , drug , or predilection for serious spillover effects .
the financial crisis produced a new answer to where the greatest competitive advantages lie . from the perspective of banks , the most obvious lesson was the need for strong national governments to bear the potential costs of saving . it is no longer best to be subject to the most favorable regulatory regime . very large banks in small territories with small-scale governments are vulnerable . the american big deal is to handle behemoths like bank of america or citigroup .
we have yet to do comparable analyses on the fate of the caribbean and the indian ocean islands following first human contact , but it is likely that large numbers of extinctions have occurred there , too . early european exploration has probably continued this rapid pace of extinction . the number of species known to have expired between 1500 and 1800 is increasing as taxonomists describe new species from skeletal remains in caves , for example , where bones survive . these searches are far from complete . linneaus invented the modern process of naming species in the mid-1700 ’s , even though naming did not get under way until the peace process following napoleon bonaparte ’s defeat in 1815 .
syria , iraq , yemen , and libya all deal with a mix of civil and proxy wars . iran ’s nuclear pact at best manages one aspect of iranian power and only for a limited period . the islamic state ( isis ) may lose its territorial dimension ; but it , along with other groups , will continue to pose a terrorist threat for years to come . the plight of millions of refugees represents not just a humanitarian tragedy , but also an economic and strategic burden to countries in the region and europe . and europe is already confronting many significant challenges , including russian aggression against ukraine , brexit , the rise of populism , and nationalism , and low rates of economic growth .
these movements have created the space for forward-thinking policymakers to take action . nevertheless , the climate crisis continues to grow , demonstrating that we still have a long way to go . this year alone , catastrophicheat waves have stricken north africa , europe , japan , pakistan , australia , and argentina . deadly wildfires have taken lives and destroyed billions of dollars worth of assets in greece , sweden , the united states , and russia . droughts have hit kenya and somalia ; and afghanistan and south africa have suffered major water shortages .
this is the beginning of an important dialogue . the stakes for both africa and the us are high . a strong , prosperous africa with a productive and expanding middle class is in america ’s interest , and a strong partnership with the us will be vitally important for africa ’s continued growth and development . the decisions we make now will have implications for generations to come . we owe it to our descendants – and to silicon savannah entrepreneurs already leading the charge – to get it right .
paris – some countries are naturally at ease with the concept and the reality of strategic power . such was clearly the case of france under louis xiv , sun king in the seventeenth century , and such is the case today in china , whose leadership is comfortable with classical europe ’s balance-of-power games . india is clearly in a different category . in economic terms , india ’s confidence has been boosted by the way the western world now looks at it with a mixture of respect and greed : “ what sort of deals can i strike with such an emerging market , whose population will soon be the world ’s largest country ? ” yet , to understand india ’s political and diplomatic relationship with the outside world , the most enlightening comparison is with america in 1920 .
views about social mobility are not uniform across the political spectrum or across geographic regions . in both the us and europe , for example , people who call themselves “ conservative ” on matters of economic policy believe that there are equal opportunities for all children , and that free-market economies in their home countries are fair . the opposite holds true for those who call themselves economically “ liberal . ” these people favor government intervention because they believe that , left to their own devices , markets will not ensure fairness , and may even generate more inequality . an even more striking pattern is that americans are overly optimistic about social mobility in parts of the country where actual mobility is low – including the southeastern states of georgia , alabama , virginia , north carolina , and south carolina .
grocer , coffee shop , and barber go out of business , leaving everyone , turning the place into ghost towns . disruption can be caused not only by industrial closure . once upon a time , there were many relatively small department-store chains and other retailers with headquarters spread throughout america and outlets in a few towns . these headquarters brought income to their cities by providing back-office services to their network of stores . but the consolidation of the retail industry , driven partly by walmart and amazon , dealt the deathblow to many of these companies .
the bat has little support even among republicans , and it would violate world trade organization rules . the republicans ’ proposed tax cuts would create a $ 2 trillion revenue shortfall over the next decade , and they can not plug that hole with the revenue savings of their health-care reform plan , or with the $ 1.2 trillion that could have been expected of the bat . the republicans now have to choose between passing their tax cuts ( and adding $ 2 trillion to the public debt ) and pursuing a much more modest reform . the first scenario is unlikely for three reasons . first , fiscally conservative congressional republicans will object to reckless increases in the public debt .
such resilience will be tested over the longer run , though , owing to fiscal and external imbalances , which were unaffected by data revision . part of the analytical attractiveness of national income accounts is that they add up . if a country saves more but investment remains unchanged , then it borrows less ( or lends more to ) the rest of the world . its net export position and current-account balance improves . but that did not happen in this case .
first , when it comes to climate change , the important thing is to look like something is done . countries that manage that can get away with massaging data . the 2015 paris climate agreement is a good example of this . countries made grandiose commitment to keep the global temperature increase well below 2 ° c above pre-industrial levels , but all their promises collectively add up to less than 1 % of what is needed . new analysis shows that only 17 countries – including algeria and samoa – actually meet their commitments , in most cases because they promised very little .
thawing siberian permafrost releases vast quantities of methane . as a result , vast areas of our planet , currently home to billions of people , could become uninhabitable . earlier unfccc signatories ’ conferences sought to reach legally binding agreements on emissions reductions , at least for industrialized countries that now produce most of the greenhouse gases in the atmosphere . that strategy faltered – partly owing to us intransigence under president george w. bush . bush – and was abandoned when the 2009 copenhagen conference failed to produce a treaty to replace the expiring the kyoto protocol ( which the us never signed ) . instead , the copenhagen accord merely asked countries for voluntary pledges to cut their emissions by specific amounts .
along the same lines , during russian prime minister dmitri medvedev ’s presidency , he called for the creation of a mechanism for european preventive diplomacy and mandatory consultations when the threat to any state ’s security is threatened . had such a mechanism been established , the worst events in ukraine could have been averted . of course , political leaders are to blame for filing away these and other “ european ideas ” in archives . but the blame must also be shared with the entire european political class , civil-society institutions , and the media . though i am , by nature , an optimist , i must admit that it is very difficult not to be pessimistic as 2014 comes close .
when it comes to solutions , europe is ahead of the curve . for example , my home country , denmark , which has been asked to lead energy-talks at the un summit , has integrated vast quantities of wind power into its electricity grid . sweden , which runs an industry workstream with india , has created the world ’s first fossil-fuel-free steel plant . and progress is hardly confined to northern europe : romania boasts europe ’s largest onshore wind farm ; poland produces electric buses ; and austria is leading when it comes to green buildings . but , as european leaders increasingly recognize , it is time to hit the accelerator .
tolerance for other people ’s religion is the price paid for tolerance . prejudice has tended to fall as participation increases . it has not been in one ’s interest to disturb this live-and let-live pragmatism for very long . one result of the deal is the “ paradox ” of familiarity . ” because immigrants participate in america ’s economic and political arenas , americans are used to different kinds of people , and so distinguish those differences that might damage the country from those that do not .
this keeps small businesses in poor nations and regions from reaching their full potential . based on our own experiences – in mexico , which opened up to foreign investment and trade , and in canada , which is a leading aid donor and a major source of private investment in developing countries – we are convinced that many of these problems can be identified , isolated , and fixed . entrepreneurial energy is already there : visit the city of the poorest country on market day , and you see the private sector in action . if small businesses could expand beyond village square , they could drive their countries ’ growth better than any aid agency . this is why when un secretary-general kofi annan and un development program administrator mark malloch brown has asked us to lead a new commission on the private sector and development , we have agreed .
there is no guarantee that he will not repeat that gambit . and yet , even if he does , kim ’s own penchant for drama – from firing missiles over japan to carrying out frequent purges at home – suggests that he knows how to command the stage and bring trump to the table . moreover , his ego-stroking personal letters to trump show that he has a good fix on the president ’s psyche . so far , he has proved highly effective at keeping the brokering alive and the upcoming summit on track . regardless of when the second summit occurs , the north korean regime will continue to reap dividends at america ’s expense .
amid surging inequality , frustration with pervasive corruption has intensified . in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th out of 180 countries on transparency international ’s corruption perceptions index . meanwhile , the state is failing to provide basic security : in july 2018 , the olympic ice-skating medalist , denis ten , was assassinated in broad daylight at the center of kazakhstan ’s largest city , almaty , for seeking to prevent his car mirrors from being stolen . all of this has made emigration an increasingly appealing option , especially for young people , raising the specter of a “ brain drain . ” it has also turned the heat on simmering social unrest , which has boiled over since nazarbayev ’s resignation ( which may well have been intended specifically to preempt popular protests ) .
but whenever the kingdom tried to reduce public-sector hiring , unemployment increased . under the current system of incentives , the authorities ’ plans to privatize companies and improve civil-service productivity will actually destroy jobs occupied by saudis . the challenge of job creation for saudis may seem like a wealth problem . some would argue that all the kingdom needs is to substitute saudi workers for foreign workers in existing positions . but simple substitution will not do that .
the whole point of money is that it enables parties to transact without barter . but for money to have value , and to generate economies of scale , only so many currencies can operate simultaneously . in the us , the reason that we do not use euros or yen in addition to dollars is obvious : do so would be pointless , making the economy far less efficient . the idea that hundreds of cryptocurrencies could viably operate together not only contradicts the very concept of money ; it is utterly idiotic . but so , too , is the idea that even a single cryptocurrency could substitute for fiat money .
cool warfare threatens to undermine these efforts , because confronting the us at the negotiating table requires that china strengthen its own position above all . this means ensuring that disruptions caused by america ’s short-termism do not present a long-term systemic threat to china , even as they hurt the global economy as a whole . the unfolding sino-american cold war is far less cut and dried than the cold war was . minimizing the fallout will require both sides to recognize that in an interconnected world , efforts to strengthen their own position become self-defeating when they undermine global stability and dynamism . the trade war has thrown this lesson into sharp relief .
studies ahead of the paris conference suggest that international cooperation could allow for rapid reductions in greenhouse gases . they also highlight knock-on benefits that taking quick action on climate change could have , including reducing local pollution , greater energy and food security , and faster innovation . to accelerate the move toward a low-carbon economy , an international agreement must apply to all countries ; include a common and consistent monitoring system , reporting , and verification ; and provide strong economic incentives on a global scale . our price-and-rebate mechanism is inspired by the “ bonus/malus ” scheme in france , in which buyers of new cars are taxed or given a bonus depending on vehicle co2 emissions . in our system , a country that exceeds the global average of per capita emissions would pay a specified amount on every ton of co2 ( or its equivalent ) above a set threshold .
by buying government bonds for cash , a central bank can satisfy demand and push down the price of cash . when excess demand is not excess for cash , there will be no excess supply of bonds and stocks that underpin and finance the productive capital of the economy . expansionary monetary policy , therefore , via the standard open-market operations of a central bank is the first item on the checklist of what to do in a financial crisis . three months ago , i argued that all but a tiny and unbalanced fringe of economists approve of expansionary open-market operations to keep total nominal spending constant in a downturn . i was also right to say that all but a tiny and unbalanced fringe of economists approve of central-bank guarantees of stability in order to prevent the risk of a collapse of the payments system from becoming a first-order consideration that boosts monetary demand to unnatural levels .
nato ’s eastward expansion and the european union contend was an unnecessary provocation . in fact , none other than george kennan , the originator of america ’s cold war containment strategy , opposed nato enlargement in the 1990s on precisely these grounds . there are obvious limits to this theory . for starters , it is based on the claim that at the height of the berlin wall ’s collapse and the disintegration of the soviet union , the west promised that nato expansion would not be possible . even mikhail gorbachev , on the 25th anniversary of the demise of the berlin wall , accused the west of not keeping the promises it made in 1989 , instead taking the “ advantage of russia ’s weakening ” in the 1990s to assert “ monopoly leadership and domination of the world , ” including through nato enlargement .
the international monetary fund has gotten its act on too . even though its october world economic outlook presents a positive picture of global growth , the imf , no doubt , still conscious of the panglossian view it offered in 2006 , now warns that the world economy is “ vulnerable to a sudden tightening of financial conditions ” and that “ equity valuations appear stretched stretched in some markets . ” in this context , “ some ” is the imf code . the american market ’s share of global equity valuations is the highest it has ever been – a remarkable statistic given america ’s declining share of global economic activity . how should we view all of these warnings ?
i also developed what i called the adjusted gsdeer , which corrects the “ equilibrium ” rate for the ongoing economic cycle , by accounting for factors like the real interest-rate differential between the us and the eurozone . which interest rate is best for comparisons is a matter of debate , because the effects of quantitative easing are felt ; but i see no good reason to use the ten-year government bond differential , adjusted for inflation expectations . accordingly , the adjusted gsdeer for the euro-dollar exchange rate , as of june 7 , was € 1 : $ 1.0590 . given that the dollar was trading at around $ 1.1250 against the euro on this day , this suggests that the dollar is actually around 6 % weaker than it should be . now , of course , 6 % is not a particularly significant difference , and this finding may mean nothing at all .
the party came to a crashing halt in 2009 , when two sharp-elbowed global investment banks accelerated loan repayments – hoping to get their money back . the kazakh government , which was scrambling to support its overextended private banks with capital injections and nationalizations , gave up and decided to pull the plug . the banks defaulted on their loans , and creditors took large “ haircuts ” ( reducing principal value ) . but – and here is the point – with its debts written off , the banking system is now recapitalized and able to support economic growth . despite messy default , this fresh start has generated a remarkable turnaround .
in the drc , for example , even after all this time , we reach just 8 % of the 760,000 children . just $ 230 per person is available for basic needs such as water , food , shelter , and less than $ 10 per child goes toward education . this year must be an education moment – a window of opportunity opened by a new consensus that education is critical to achieving the un sustainable development goals , including reducing maternal and infant mortality rates , spurring job creation , improving quality of life , and opening our minds to gender equality issues . but , most important , this is education ’s moment , because the world ’s young people are demanding it . when a girl holds an insurgent gun in pakistan , when teenage mothers exiled from south sudan in neighboring uganda make education for their children their top priority , and when lights seen from space could include clusters of children huddled by candlelight trying to read and study , we know that the moment of education has come .
us president jimmy carter used it to conclude the 1978 camp david accords , establishing diplomatic relations between egypt and israel . and us secretary of state james baker used it to overcome israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir ’s own “ peace conference ” in 1991 . if the us can not provide that today , it must relinquish its monopoly on international conflict resolution . it is time for the us to recognize that it can not resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict , defuse the iranian nuclear dispute , alter north korea ’s behavior , or stop the syrian civil war on its own . over the past two decades , the world has grown accustomed to us-led international coalitions for war in the middle east .
by appeasing terrorists in this way , the world ’s most powerful states give a green light to terrorists not only in the balkans , but around the world . kosovo is a territory far smaller than afghanistan . if the world fails to eliminate terrorists from politics in kosovo , what hope is it having to defeat terrorism elsewhere ? so , before the anti-terror campaign seeks other terrorist bases to destroy , it should eliminate terror in a place where the un itself is ruling . if not , the un , nato , and the european union discredit themselves , as will humanitarian values that they use to justify their “ humanitarian ” interventions .
if the relationship between fruit fly genes and behavior is so complex , can it be any less so with humans ? the view that an individual gene could account for a complete biological trait is as old as genetics itself . whether describing genes for color flowers in pea plants or the shape of fruit fly wings , geneticists at the beginning of the last century believed that each gene governed one unique characteristic . soon , a few early geneticists , the founders of the eugenics movement , made the odious assertion that “ licentiousness , ” “ untouchatlessness , ” and “ criminality ” could all be attributed to individual genes as well . as time passed and scientific knowledge accumulated – much of it from the fruit fly – the true complexity of the relationship between genes and characteristics became clear .
and , after all , you can not have a definitive , utopian society without having a final , scientific theory of human behavior , together with some mad scientists or philosophes to preside over the whole thing . the problem is that , whatever how “ scientifically ” these new beliefs were formulated , they are still false . among other things , capitalism is a struggle between individual people over scarce resource control . like boxing and poker , it is soft , restrained , private form of warfare . military strategists have known for centuries that there is , and can be , no final science of war .
paris – earlier this week , following days of tense discussions , the new government in athens reached an agreement with its eurozone creditors , which includes a package of immediate reforms and a four-month extension of the program of financial assistance . but , despite europe ’s collective sigh of relief , compromise does not preclude the need for further tough negotiations on a new financial-assistance program that was supposed to be introduced by the end of june . in any negotiation , a key variable influencing the protagonists ’ behavior , hence the outcome , is what failure to reach an agreement would cost each of them . in this case , the issue is the cost of greece ’s exit ( “ grexit ” ) from the eurozone – a prospect that has been discussed widely in the media throughout the recent negotiation , with considerable speculation about the stance of various players , especially the greek and german governments . from greece ’s perspective , leaving the euro would be highly disruptive , which explains why there is very little support for it in the country .
elections in countries that have been strangers to democracy are never quite fair , because afghanistan ’s recent vote demonstrated , and as any election in iraq is likely to be . but electoral flaws are not always the whole picture . consider kazakhstan , where five million people cast ballots in september for their parliament ’s lower house . western media judged the election failure . cnn reported that it “ neither equitable nor free . ”
it is largely a matter of providing public goods : basic infrastructure like roads , bridges , ports , and power , as well as access to education and basic health care . and , unlike many equally poor countries , india already has a very strong entrepreneurial class , a reasonably large and well-educated middle class , and a number of world-class corporations that can be enlisted in the effort to provide these public goods . satisfying the demand for such goods is itself a source of growth . but , too , a reliable road creates tremendous additional activity , as trade increases between connected areas , and myriad businesses , restaurants , and hotels spring along the way . as india did away with the stultifying license raj in the 1990 ’s , successive governments understood the imperative of economic growth , so much so that the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) challenged the 2004 election on a pro-development platform encapsulated in the slogan , “ india shining . ”
its infrastructure , both material and intellectual , was poorer , and its economic structure unfit to meet new challenges , owing both to firm size and their specialization in traditional sectors , as well as low levels of education and r & d. yet berlusconi ’s government did next to nothing to address these shortcomings , despite being italy ’s first government in history to survive a full five-year electoral term . with an unassailable parliamentary majority , it could have undertaken coherent supply-side reforms , even at the risk of some initial unpopularity . a few reforms were belatedly enacted : timid pension intervention and further increases in labor-market flexibility . but nothing was done to deregulate product markets or to give proper incentives to restructuring , while privatization came to a halt .
despite civil wars , malnutrition , and anguish about the aids epidemic , something remarkable is happening in black africa : stealthy ’s rise to a high-technology sector . if not quite representing an african “ silicon valley , ” these shoots of high-tech industry can and must be nurtured if africa is to thrive . consider what is happening on several floors of the one high-rise office building in accra , ghana ’s capital . there are some 1,500 africans who process american health-insurance claims – working around the clock , in three shifts . africans speak english , type at least 50 words a minute on a computer , take data from paper claims that american health insurers provide through electronic satellite , put it into new digital forms , and ship them back to the us .
yet the westphalian system was destroyed by the first half of the twentieth century ’s world wars – both of which were in fact european wars for world domination . when the guns fell silent in 1945 , europeans – even victorious european allies – effectively lost their sovereignty . the westphalian system was replaced by the cold war bipolar order , wherein sovereignty rested with the two non-european nuclear powers : the united states and the soviet union . the eu was conceived as an attempt to regain european sovereignty peacefully , by pooling european states ’ national interests . the goal of such an effort was always to prevent a relapse into the old system of power rivalries , reciprocal alliances , and hegemonic head butting .
in october and november , the ecb will announce the results of its bank stress tests . because many banks hold large volumes of eurozone government debt , the results will depend very much on how the ecb assesses sovereign risk . if the ecb grossly understates the risks , its credibility as a regulator will be badly tarnished . if it is more forthright about risks , there is a chance that some periphery countries might have difficulty plugging holes , and it will require northern help . one hopes that the ecb will be forthright .
researchers should use fully representative test groups , while taking care to adhere to stringent privacy and accountability protocols . of course , such initiatives cost money , and they should be used to provide such initiatives . venture capital companies now spend $ 3.2 billion annually on global health research and development , and they should be used to help drive the global economy to increase the global level of health research and development . they should expand the scope of their ai-enabled investments to include mental-health-care technologies . they could also fund competitions among socially conscious technology entrepreneurs to spur further innovation in this area .
yet the us ’s model of public policy could be effective . consider , for example , harvard university ’s growth lab , which i founded in 2006 , after two highly satisfied policy engagements in el salvador and south africa . since then , we have worked on more than three dozen countries and regions . in some respects , the lab looks a bit like a teacher and research hospital . it focuses both on research and on clinical work serving “ patients , ” or on governments in our case .
and the us had as much regard for british industrialists ’ trade secrets as china today for american intellectual property rights . new england ’s fledgling textile mills were desperate for technology , and did their best to steal british designs and smuggle in skilled british craftsmen . the us had patent laws , but it protected only us citizens . as one historian of the american enterprise put it , the americans were pirates , too . ” any sensible international trade regime must start from acknowledging that it is neither feasible nor desirable to restrict policy space countries must design their own economic and social models .
making all of these changes will be difficult , and it is difficult to make . but if the world moves in this direction , something along the lines of a new conclave of political global power will begin to take shape , and that will be the beginnings of a new international system . the second great change – ie , the end of global ideological division – also raises difficult and perhaps more complex issues . there exists today , even on occasion a ritualistic , consensus about the notion that democracy and human rights are the points of departure for political organization with some form of free market with varying degrees of social responsibility based on private entrepreneurship as the foundation for economic activity . yes , one can debate the third way or a half how , or three and a half way , but these are essentially marginal debates .
it would offer returns close to those that have been yielded by equity investment , but with some of the risk offsetting its long-term nature . risk would be mitigated further through the participation of large , influential investors , including sovereign wealth funds , pension funds , and possibly international financial institutions . public contributions , presumably backstopped by multilateral lenders , would provide projects with something close to sovereign risk profiles . finally , a regulated nature of cash flows would enable better pre-defined returns structures than traditional private or public equity can offer . the bbhe would require a new private-sector investment platform structured to provide bespoke returns for its various participants .
capital inflows – which will undoubtedly increase in the years ahead – are driven largely by investors ’ interest in diversification and high yield , rather than the country ’s image as a refuge from troubled financial markets elsewhere , especially given that china ’s financial markets are relatively underdeveloped and beset by considerable risks . to be sure , some foreign central banks have signed currency-swap agreements with china , and even hold small amounts of its currency in their reserve portfolios . but these actions may be less a sign of the renminbi ’s inevitable march toward global dominance than a low-cost bet on its likely emergence as a widely accepted international currency . and countries ’ desire to maintain good relations with china , owing to its rising economic power , can not be discounted . depending on how soon china opens up its capital account and develops its financial markets , the renminbi could become a significant reserve currency in the near future .
the peasants in guerrero cultivate amapola for the cartels , not for their own livelihood . and america ’s drug-enforcement administration will look kindly to any backtracking from previous mexican presidents ’ commitments to continue waging a costly , bloody , and futile war of drug choice in mexico . there are other issues on the us-mexican agenda , of course , ranging from intelligence sharing and counter-terrorism to regional crises such as venezuela , nicaragua , and possibly cuba . amlo will almost certainly maintain mexican cooperation on the first set of issues , while retreating to mexico ’s traditional and archaic anti-interventionist stance on regional diplomacy . but trump cares more about security than he does about venezuelan president nicolás maduro or nicaragua ’s daniel ortega , so a genuine rupture here may be avoided .
in 2015 , enabled by a new constitution , burundi ’s president , pierre nkurunziza , won a third term amid violent protests . similar protests erupted in the democratic republic of congo in the same year , following the establishment of a law that would allow president joseph kabila to prolong his tenure . the au should show leadership in this area , pursuing interventions that buttress constitutional democracy , in line with its agenda 2063 . the au resisted military coups in the past . on the heels of its success in sudan , it must confront “ constitutional coups ” carried out by presidents , because it establishes itself more firmly as a force for peace and democratic governance in africa .
higher fertility rates in the us , the uk , and france reflect the large number of immigrant families in each country . fertility rates among immigrants typically outweigh that of native european or north american families . but increasing the number of immigrant workers will not necessarily raise fertility rates . germany , for example , has a large guest population , but few settle there with their families ; most leave their children in their homeland . an aging population contributes to europe ’s poor economic performance .
of course , there have been no consequences whatsoever for cheney . the news barely made ripple in america ’s media . impunity is widespread – indeed , most corporate crimes go un-noticed . the few that are typically noted end with a slap on the wrist , with the company – meaning that its shareholders – picking up a modest fine . the real culprits at these companies ’ top rarely need to worry .
greene found that people asked to make moral judgments about “ personal ” violations , like pushing the stranger off footbridge , showed increased activity in areas associated with emotions . this was not the case with people who were asked to make judgments about relatively impersonal ” violations like throwing a switch . moreover , the minority of subjects who did consider it right to push the stranger off footbridge took longer to reach that judgment than those who said that doing so would be wrong . why would our judgments , and our emotions , vary in this way ? for most of our evolutionary history , human beings – and our primate ancestors – lived in small groups in which violence could be inflicted only in an up-close and personal way , by hitting , pushing , strangling , or using a stick or stone as a club .
in today ’s more complicated legal environment , it will take years to negotiate trade deals with the eu and then other partners . political uncertainty is high , and there is no prospect of a general election to resolve it anytime soon . investors have every reason to adopt a wait-and-see attitude . in 1949 , britain found itself in the same position , with a trade deficit vis-à-vis the united states and weak investor confidence . in september of that year , sterling devalued again , as it had been 18 years before , by 30 % .
once in power , erbakan tempered his tone and actions . turkey continued to allow the u.s.-led “ operation provides comfort ” against iraq to use turkish bases . it remained a vital member of nato . indeed , relations with israel improved with more visits by senior turkish officials than ever before – a move orchestrated by miller but accepted by refah . power in fact led refah to compromise , rather than extremes .
new york – in 1893 , the playwright george bernard shaw , an ardent proponent of women ’s suffrage and equality , wrote mrs. warren ’s profession , a play whose title character is the proprietor of several brothels . the play justifies her profitable exploitation of prostitution business . the play is not salacious , and it contains no coarse language , but it was eight years before it could be staged . its opening in london in 1902 was staged in a small theater “ club , ” ostensibly limited to members . its performance in new york in 1905 was raided by the police .
nairobi/paris – africa is on the verge of an unemployment crisis portending profound economic , political , and social ramifications . but the crisis can be averted , and one solution can be as simple as turning on the lights . every year , some 13 million young people look for work in africa , but only about three million find jobs . the continent ’s youth population is projected to double by 2050 , to 840 million , and yet africa ’s schools and universities are not producing enough graduates with the technical skills to succeed in the workplace of tomorrow . although the african development bank ( afdb ) hopes to create 25 million new jobs within a decade through its youth jobs initiative in africa , it is not immediately clear where those opportunities will emerge .
they did not calculate that the palestinian people have dignity and national pride , just like any other nation , and will insist on being treated accordingly . let us be clear : the two-state solution does not mean accommodating the illegal reality of israeli settlements ; rather , it means ending this colonial enterprise . refusing to mention the two-state solution , trump ’s statements go in a different direction , more in line with israel ’s official position : one state and two systems . but no palestinian , arab , or responsible international leader would ever accept this design , as has been made clear in messages delivered by world leaders to the trump administration . now plans are afoot to “ promote a future of peace and security in the middle east ” through the us-polish conference in warsaw , where palestinians are not going to participate .
in any case , it is not as if avoiding talking about israel is a departure for sanders . despite having commented on the matter where necessary , he has generally not been outspoken on issues related to the country . he has certainly never embraced israel as a political cause , because many other american jewish politicians have . nor does israel appear to figure much in its own jewish identity , which is more connected to the memory of the holocaust than anything else . in this respect , sanders is no different than many other american jews .
king salman embraced trump ’s war against terrorism and anti-iran rhetoric , and expressed support for israeli-palestinian peace . nothing was said of human rights , much less women ’s rights , and the word “ democracy ” never passed trump ’s lips . instead , trump completed an agreement to provide $ 110 billion in advanced weaponry to saudi arabia , which in turn will invest heavily in america ’s economy . the agreement appears to have become the foundation of wonderful new friendship , between the world ’s oldest democracy and its most repressive islamic regime . for trump , as for president calvin coolidge , america ’s chief business is business .
because gold was $ 400 an ounce in both years , holding gold did nothing to offset the dollar ’s fall in value . a japanese investor holding dollar equities or real estate could instead compensate for the loss of the exchange rate by buying yen futures . the same is true for a euro-based investor who would not have gained by holding gold but could have offset the dollar ’s decline by buying up euro futures . in short , there are better ways than gold to hedge inflation risk and exchange-rate risk . tips , or their equivalent of other governments , provide safe inflation hedges , and explicit currency futures can offset exchange-rate risks .
munich – because china pegged its undervalued currency , the renminbi , the dollar , every weakening of the dollar in the wake of america ’s financial crisis has also meant weakening the renminbi vis-à-vis other world currencies . but is china really to blame for the eruption of a global currency war ? south korea ’s central banks , brazil , taiwan , japan , switzerland , and many other countries are now buying dollars to protect their own currencies against revaluation , and thus to defend their exports . europe has also become nervous after the euro ’s exchange rate rose to more than $ 1.40 , far beyond purchasing power parity ( ppp ) of $ 1.17 . the united states is now taking drastic steps against china , making provisions for a trade war .
but while these sources can provide valuable insights , they are not meeting the standards of methodological rigor and conceptual clarity on which informed public conversation should be based . for these reasons , researchers , media , and civil-society organizations need to get more involved . it is critical that we develop an internationally recognized set of indicators and methods for tracking income and wealth . government statistical agencies should publish the income and wealth levels of the top 1 % , 0.1 % , and 0.001 % , as well as the effective taxes that these groups pay . to that end , a particularly important milestone will come with revision , owing in the next three years to the united nations system of national accounts .
eliminating federal health-insurance subsidies under the affordable care act ( obamacare ) would save the government at a rate of more than $ 100 billion annually , about 3 % of federal spending . but those subsidies are largely paid for by their own dedicated taxes . moreover , trump and congressional republicans are learning that replacing obamacare is easier said than done . health-care reform , as hillary clinton could have told them , is fearsomely complex . it is increasingly clear that the name will change ( “ “ “ obamacare , ” anyone ? ) and one can expect that the republican plan will cover fewer people ; but much of substance will remain the same .
during cardoso ’s tenure , he privatized telecoms , the national mining company , and part of the electric sector . inflation fell , but unemployment , public debt , and urban violence all rose sharply . social inequalities increased , and last year brazil suffered blackouts and electricity rationing . from the start of the campaign , lula showed strength , especially after the favored candidate , roseana sarney , crashed and burned when federal police and prosecutors discovered cash load in her husband ’s office . mr. and mrs. sarney were eventually absolved of all charges , but not soon enough to save her candidacy .
in case , you think that people receiving such a windfall will spend it on alcohol , gambling , or prostitution , an independent evaluation has shown that they do not . giving money directly to cash transfers increases recipients ’ food security , mental health , and assets . for $ 450 million , you could also buy 180 million bed nets , enough to protect 271 million people from malaria . ( for all these interventions , the numbers are likely to be somewhat smaller , because charity impact calculator is not designed for such large sums , and so fails to account for the costs that will rise once the needs of those who are easiest to reach have been met . ) when a person chooses to buy “ salvator mmetic ” rather than restore sight to nine million people , what does that say about their values ?
mail managers will also manage incoming messages and facebook , linkedin , and other requests as specified by the recipient , and will collect senders ’ credit-card information ( or , more likely , charge their paypal accounts or navigate other payment systems as they emerge ) . the recipient is unlikely to see the complexities ; most of this will be handled in the background . to start , you can simply set your price at , say , $ 1 , along with a list of people who can reach you for free . there will be lots of glitches at the start , starting with people who know who have multiple e-mail addresses , old friends not on your current white list of free senders , and so forth . but such challenges will diminish over time , and , as less mail gets sent , a higher share of it will be wanted and answered .
in trade and immigration , for example , bannon ’s acquired philosophy aligned with trump ’s political opportunism ( trump ’s more liberal , often democrat-backing former self is another story ) . it was a mistake to see bannon as pygmalion to trump ’s galatea , or , as some have done , as trump ’s white house rasputin has done . bannon reinforced the nationalist inclination that led trump to overrule his daughter ivanka and his economic advisers by withdrawing from the paris climate agreement . and bannon intruded on foreign policy by getting himself on the national security council for some time , until two of trump ’s generals – national security adviser h. r. mcmaster and john kelly ( now chief of staff ) – got him removed . ( bannon was believed to be behind the recent push to force mcmaster , mainly by suggesting that he is “ anti-israel . ” )
they mistrust each other too much to collaborate . in most of europe , meanwhile , demand is weak , ruling out the economic growth needed to repay debts , and offering hope to the unemployed 25 million . parochial suspicion has been the main obstacle to grand solutions . no country ’s taxpayers wanted to feel that they are paying for the excesses of others : the single currency did not impose shared responsibility . so creditor countries , led by germany , have sought to do the minimum necessary to keep the euro alive , while debtors grumbled impotently about germany ’s insistence on fiscal austerity .
cheap credit ushered in the fed ’s inflationary economic bubble in southern europe , which burst when the financial crisis hit . credit terms deteriorated abruptly , and what was left was the thoroughly overpriced rump of economies that became excessively dependent on foreign financing . the french economy , in turn , suffers because its customers in southern europe are in trouble . according to a study by goldman sachs , france would have to depreciate by around 20 % relative to the eurozone average , and by about 35 % vis-à-vis germany , to restore external al-debt sustainability . the ecb and the international community – particularly the international monetary fund – have struggled to cope with the crisis by replacing a dearth of private capital with public credit .
the same happens even if you read philosophy , say , husserl . the author opens at fist pages , and follows a set of questions to see how he reaches his conclusions . encyclopedias , of course , is never meant to be read cover . if i want to know whether it was possible that napoleon met kant , i pick up volumes k and n , and discover that napoleon was born in 1769 and died in 1821 , and that kant was born in 1724 , and died in 1804 . it is possible that both met .
letting them produce a better team , but it would no longer be our team . from one perspective , this is just another case of emotion defeating economic logic . but our emotions are algorithms bequeathed by evolution by which we make most decisions , including political ones ; economic cost-benefit analysis that does not connect to our emotional compass does not move the needle . at the heart of the issue is the sense of “ us . ” what does it mean to be an eu member , nigeria , iraq , turkey , switzerland , switzerland , or any other political entity ?
islam and democracy are often presumed to be bitter antagonists , and they are often viewed as bitter antagonists . a careful study by 47 muslim-majority states in the world , however , shows that islam and democracy can and can co-exist . the real gap is narrower : it is the arab world , not islam , that seems to loggerheads with democracy . this conclusion is based on comparing muslim countries ’ “ electoral competitiveness . ” if a government sprang from reasonably fair elections , and an elected government manages to fill the most important political offices , the country is deemed “ electorally competitive . ”
( if anything , these standards are excessively burdensome . ) on the other hand , swiss bioengineer martin fussenegger correctly observed that venter achievement is a technical advance , not conceptual one . ” other researchers noted that the organism is really only “ semi-synthetic , ” because the synthetic dna ( which comprises only about 1 % of cell dry weight ) was introduced into a normal or non-synthetic bacterium . understanding the history of synthetic biology is important , because recognizing that the correct paradigm has critical implications for how governments regulate it , which in turn affects the potential application and diffusion of technology . thirty-five years ago , the american national institutes of health adopted overly risk-averse guidelines for research using recombinant dna or “ genetic engineering , ” techniques .
paris – with weak demand in advanced countries now impeding growth in emerging economies , including major players in asia and latin america , many argue that the era of income convergence has come to an end . nothing could be further from the truth . as i argued before , convergence in emerging countries ’ real average incomes , in aggregate , with advanced countries ’ incomes , is likely to continue in 2020 . that process began in the late 1980 ’s , and continued unabated , with the exception of the asian financial crisis of 1997-1998 . the pace of convergence accelerated further during , and just after the 2008-2009 global financial crisis : the aggregate average differential in per capita income growth rose to more than four percentage points in the 2008-2012 period , from a little more than two percentage points in the two decades before .
this belief has suited the two main political parties . labour has sought to avoid constitutional debate , because any move in the direction of federal institutions requires addressing the party ’s over-representation in the uk parliament . it is unfair to cede ever more power to the scottish parliament , while continuing to give labour , which controls 41 scottish constituencies in the house of commons , disproportionate say over what happens in england . as for conservatives , the party has allowed its faith in the constituent parts of the country to foreclose any discussion of how the union can be modernized . if the uk is to prevent the uk from rattling to pieces , we must change the way we govern ourselves .
this means reaching out to public figures to request on-the-record corrections , lodging complaints with standards bodies , and providing training to media organizations . it also means working with tech companies to find ways to prevent broader circulation of misinformation , including across international borders . at the same time , fact-checking organizations should not simply focus on tackling fake information , but also on identifying sources of reliable information and pointing their readers and followers to them . and we should work with schools and other educational platforms to help teach people to identify false or misleading claims . this is the approach taken by our organizations , and as little and under-resourced as they are , the impact is already apparent .
london – one of the most dispiriting features of today ’s international debates is that the threat to humanity posed by the world ’s 23,000 nuclear weapons – and by those who would build more of them , or that only be too willing to use them – has been consigned to the fringes of us politics . us president barack obama has captured global attention with his prague speech in 2009 , making a compelling case for a nuclear-weapon-free world . and he has delivered on a major new arms-reduction treaty with russia , and hosted a summit aimed at reducing the vulnerability of nuclear weapons and materials to theft or diversion . but nuclear issues still struggle for public resonance and political traction . it would take a brave gambler to bet on ratification of the comprehensive test ban treaty by the american senate any time soon .
a developed economy , it seems , requires adequate , ongoing public investment . but the state of infrastructure in the us suggests that many decision-makers do not share this view . a 2013 report by american society of civil engineers gave the american + pathetic overall for its infrastructure . the report cited numerous state-specific shortcomings , including michigan ’s “ 88 high-hazard dams and 1,298 structurally deficient bridges ” and the “ $ 44.5 billion needed to upgrade drinking-water systems ” in california . the report concludes that a $ 3.6 trillion investment ( roughly one-fifth of the country ’s annual gdp ) will be needed by 2020 to boost the quality of america ’s infrastructure by addressing the “ significant backlog of overdue maintenance [ and ] pressing for modernization . ”
the second myth presumes that prohibition reduces the harm associated with drugs . global markets in cannabis , opium , and coca products essentially resemble other global commodities markets , yet global drug-control policies operate on the assumption that drug markets bear more in common with smallpox and other infectious diseases for which there is no demand . governments can act unilaterally and multilaterally to regulate commodity markets , but they are a mistake to view prohibition as the ultimate or maximum form of regulation . prohibition in fact represents the abdication of regulation . whatever is suppressed is effectively unregulated , except by criminal organizations .
this is for the best of reasons – fish caught when they are too small will produce little yield . moreover , fish will not have a chance to reproduce , undermining fish stocks altogether . for example , the avowed intention of the eu ’s common fisheries policy is “ to protect fish resources by regulating the amount of fish taken from the sea by allowing young fish to reproduce , and by ensuring that action is respected . ” as it stands , however , we have “ fished down ” our stocks until few large , old individuals remain . to see this , consider northern sea cod .
official surveys insist that 86 % of russians – and usually 86 % – support him on everything from annexing crimea to his latest term as president . but putin ’s ambitions as a post-modern autocrat may be his achilles ’ heel . after all , autocrats often mistake their people ’s proclamations of love and admiration . the truth about what people genuinely feel remains impossible . with the russian economy stagnating , owing largely to international sanctions and kremlin counter-sanctions , discontent will continue to simmer .
but it was probably in hungary , the first country to seek an imf package that these practices were most widespread . yet this vulnerability was largely created , or at least accommodated , by western banks . funding from the parent banks that in the earlier phase of the crisis helped to provide liquidity to eastern european banking systems now appears more like a liability and a possible source of contagion . it was also western european financial regulators and supervisors who , under “ home rule , ” were intended to discourage these excesses . penetration of foreign banks also effectively deprived countries in central and eastern europe of the tools of monetary policy , leaving them with little control over exceptionally rapid credit growth .
add to that mismanagement of ethnic and religious diversity , stir up in a large and growing cohort of unemployed and digitally connected youth , and the continent offers ideal conditions for mayhem . emulating countries elsewhere , african governments have responded to violent extremism primarily by putting “ hard ” security first . but this strategy has not diminished the potency of extremist groups or limited their reach . in fact , there is evidence that an exclusively military response can be a waste of resources , or even do more harm than good . what is missing is a deeper examination of root causes , particularly underlying development challenges .
moreover , wherever health-care costs are paid to everyone – including the us , with its public health-care programs for the poor and the elderly – everyone pays the cost of efforts to treat cigarettes diseases . whether to prohibit cigarettes altogether is another question , because doing so would no doubt generate new revenue sources for organized crime . curiously , it seems to hold that the state may , in principle , prohibit sales of a product , but may not permit it to be sold only in packs that carry graphic images of the harm it causes to human health . the tobacco industry will now take its battle against australia ’s legislation to the world trade organization . the industry fears that the law could be copied in much larger markets , such as india and china .
the united nations framework convention refused to fund disaster preparedness efforts unless states demonstrate precisely how the disasters they feared were linked to climate change . according to a recent rand study , the united nations ’ funding for disaster loss-reduction research in 2003 amounted to roughly $ 127 million – just 7 % of the amount invested in climate-change research for that year . climate-change policies are not the best way to mitigate the effects of weather disasters . during the 2004 hurricane season , the dominican republic , which invested in hurricane shelters and emergency evacuation nets , suffered fewer than ten deaths . in neighboring haiti , which was not prepared , 2,000 lives were lost .
the brisbane summit ’s signature achievement was to leverage the just-announced us-china emissions target into formal g-20 support for “ strong and effective action to address climate change . ” the g-20 ’s stance represents a powerful challenge to the rest of the world to reach a global agreement at the united nations climate change conference in paris in december 2015 . ( all of this dismayed australia ’s conservative host government , which fought to prevent the issue from ever rising ; the australian public , however , was delighted , promptly knocked down prime minister tony abbott ’s approval rating in post-summit polls for this and other embarrassments . ) other formal outcomes of the g-20 meeting were agreements – backed by more policy detail than most commentators had expected – to stimulate global growth . in particular , leaders focused on investment , trade , competition , and efforts to bring more women into the workforce ; the fairness of the international tax system ; and how to target corruption .
if you want to impress russian president vladimir putin or other foreign dignitaries hosting them in such magisterial setting as versailles is certain to prove effective . but reveling in the country ’s monarchical history can be dangerous . many of those who voted for macron may have been hoping for twenty-first-century bonaparte . but now they may be thinking more about louis xvi , the king who has paid his life for his predecessors ’ faults . can macron learn from his mistakes and regain the confidence of french voters who feel humiliated by him ?
and that is what the us economy got in the form of unprecedented fiscal stimulus and unthinkable policy activism on the part of america ’s federal reserve . as they intervened , american policymakers consulted closely with their counterparts around the world urging them to take supportive steps . and they did , culminating in one of history ’s most successful periods of global policy coordination , involving both advanced and emerging economies . for many , the global economic summit held in london in april 2009 marks the point when the american economy turned the corner . the change was so notable that many policymakers fell into the projecting a quick rebound , especially given america ’s prior history of economic dynamism and resilience , only humbled by what has proven to be a protracted and complex process of recovery .
fear feeds on itself , and the prediction that stocks will lose value becomes self-fulfilling . the 2008 recession was triggered by the collapse of the real-estate bubble . housing wealth in the us has fallen by 34 % since its peak in 2006 , and is still declining . the us stock market has fallen by almost 50 % since its 2007 peak , and remains down by nearly a third . this enormous loss of wealth has caused a large and persistent drop in consumption demand , resulting in an increase in unemployment .
the billionaire american casino owner sheldon adelson , for example , did not buy las vegas review-journal in 2015 , or capture israeli media for money . as the media landscape increasingly lends itself to capture , political and corporate accountability will only decline . that is why the center for international media assistance has just released a new report shining a spotlight on the phenomenon – and calling for solutions . free and healthy news media are essential to a well-functioning democracy . if the us is to protect the latter , it is imperative to defend the former at all costs .
until now , merkel had to deal with a weak or non-existent opposition . this will change very quickly , especially given the possibility of nato troop increases in afghanistan . from now on , she will require a trait that she has lacked so far : leadership and decision-making skills . the victory of the black and yellow has also defined the alternative : red , dark red , and green . old political camps – the left and the right – are back .
instead , we need to integrate transportation , housing , and land use , encourage reliance on public transportation , and make our streets pleasant and safe for walking ( especially for women and those with disabilities ) . the fourth challenge is to change how we produce , transport , and consume energy . this includes creating more efficient energy systems and increasing our investment in renewable sources ( which will , one hopes , create jobs in the process ) . we can also encourage households to consume less energy , and companies to reduce the amount of energy they waste . fifth , we must reform how we manage our water resources and water infrastructure to re-harness this precious resource several times , and on a city-wide scale .
ramallah – israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu certainly has reason to celebrate . he surprised almost everyone by securing a decisive electoral victory , winning a third consecutive term in office after his right-wing likud party won a five-seat advantage in the knesset over its main rival , the center-left zionist union . but the celebration is likely to be short-lived . the way netanyahu finagled this outcome – renouncing his commitment to a two-state solution with palestine and pledging to continue building settlements on occupied land – will almost certainly have serious political and diplomatic consequences for israel . in recent years , netanyahu ’s hardline stance has increasingly undermined israel ’s international credibility , while convincing palestinians living in the occupied territories that a genuine agreement with israel is impossible .
an early test of the kremlin ’s commitment to the minsk agreement should be whether it frees nadiya savchenko , ukraine ’s first woman fighter pilot . savchenko has been on a hunger strike in russia for more than two months to protest her patently illegal incarceration on charges even more ludicrous than those for which i was imprisoned . of course , i hope that the new agreement will last , finally bringing peace to ukraine . but such an outcome is unlikely , given that the agreement lacks any enforcement mechanism , such as russia ’s automatic eviction from the swift financial transfer system , should renege on any aspect of the agreement . simply trusting the kremlin ’s “ goodwill ” would be reckless .
why waste precious work time in the air , safety checks , and waiting for our luggage ? before anyone starts slashing travel budgets , let ’s try to understand why we need to move people rather than information . thanks to a research collaboration on inclusive growth with mastercard and anonymized donation of data to the center for international development at harvard university , we are starting to shed some light on this mystery . in ongoing work with dany bahar , michele coscia , and frank neffke , we have been able to establish some interesting stylized facts . more populous countries have more entrepreneurial travel in both directions , but the volume is less than proportional to their populations : a country with 100 % more of the population than another has only about 70 % more business travel .
too many italians shrugged their shoulders at berlusconi ’s lies and failings , figuring that he would soon go away , did little harm . but he did not go away and did a lot of harm . the us can not afford to make the same mistake . the price of liberty , americans love to say , is eternal vigilance . in confronting trump , there can be no discount .
and , though the government recognizes the need for growth-enhancing reform , its approach is all wrong . specifically , president ollanta humala recently won legislative approval of a set of “ realistic ” procedures to reduce red tape perceived as hampering investment in extractive industries – the very industries on which the economy should become less dependent . the new law seriously weakens peru ’s ability to regulate land use , set environmental quality standards , and rein in corporate misconduct through environmental consequences . the peruvian government now has a serious problem . beyond diminishing peru ’s international credibility as a “ climate champion ” – an image that some members of the government have been attempting to cultivate – the law jeopardizes peru ’s natural environment and economic-growth prospects .
fifa and the government ’s response to brazil ’s recent protests are putting at risk what paquim exhibit commemorates : the rebirth of freedom and democracy . the problem for president dilma rousseff ’s government , who was herself imprisoned and tortured under the military regime , is that brazilians know exactly what is at stake . when pundits weigh in on emerging powers like brazil and india , they typically point to the rise of the middle class and booms in education and connectivity . but they rarely appreciate the texture of their democracy and civil society – the relative newness of hard-won freedoms and intimate understanding of what tyranny , whether homegrown dictatorship or colonial administration , means to individual liberty . ( still less do they notice the role that women ’s empowerment and feminism have played in development . )
how can nato help this ? directly , it can do nothing ; indirectly , it can do a lot . nato is no longer only a military alliance ; it is a military alliance . the eu now has a military-political alliance that sets democratic standards for new members and aspirants . no romanian government can neglect these standards .
a revolutionary delusion has collapsed , leaving behind only oppressive rule by a class of corrupt tycoons – effectively a mafia – that has bought military loyalty with massive cash bonuses and lucrative oil-smuggling and drug-trafficking deals . mafia opponents are repressed , often brutally . in terms of the number of political prisoners , maduro ’s venezuela has joined ranks with china , cuba , and turkey . one might expect us president donald trump ’s administration to minimize maduro ’s repressive practices . but trump has also been quick to recognize the opposition leader , juan guaidó , as interim head of state after guaidó , with widespread support among venezuelans , invoked a constitutional provision to challenge maduro ’s legitimacy .
but , so far , efforts to lower funding costs have had limited consequences . indeed , the weighted average interest rate on bank credit to nonfinancial enterprises remains close to 7 % , while economic growth has edged down from 7.4 % year on year in the last three months to 7.3 % in the current quarter . the situation may not be dire yet , but it is far from ideal – especially at a time when the chinese authorities are pursuing structural reform . the pboc now faces a dilemma . if it loosens monetary policy further – by , say , cutting banks ’ reserve requirement ratio – momentum for restructuring could disappear ; and there is no guarantee that the additional liquidity would flow into the real sector .
drafted with reference to un resolution 181 ( which partitioned palestine in 1947 ) , such a move would reaffirm the establishment of a palestinian state and a state for the jewish people based on the 1967 borders , with mutually agreed border adjustments and security arrangements . while such an approach would certainly fall short of maximalist palestinian demands , it would embrace the parameters outlined in may by us president barack obama . it would also indirectly address the israeli government ’s demand that the palestinians recognize a “ jewish state . ” such a vote would also address international calls for bilateral diplomacy . instead of closing doors , such a redefinition of the un ’s statehood bid would provide a much-needed symbolic achievement for the palestinian leadership , including a framework from which to restart negotiations – a longstanding palestinian demand .
given that ongoing changes in manufacturing means have already started this trend , gates and some in the european parliament have suggested that robots be taxed to pay for human services . whether that is the best solution is now the topic of much debate ; but , clearly , some kind of compromise will have to be made . robotics and ai will also raise profound ethical issues for liberal politicians , particularly with respect to privacy and safety . fortunately , there is a broader political consensus on this issue than taxation . the european parliament has proposed a voluntary code of conduct for engineers and others working in robotics .
“ everything . ” so , too , does everything change . so goes the refrain in the famous argentine song . but , in argentina , everything remains the same , or becomes worse . heraclitus ’s warning against bathing in the same sea twice loses on our economic ministers , who insist on bathing regularly in contaminated waters . whenever they go bathing , they follow the same path , first raising concerns over what happens if argentina pays back its foreign debt , and then inevitably paying back its debt under intense pressure from the international monetary fund and the us .
shanghai – as the existing international order becomes more fragmented , strong global-governance institutions are critical to addressing the world ’s strategic , economic , and sustainability challenges . and yet rarely have our existing institutions – including , most important , the united nations – frailer . the un is not breaking down , but it is in trouble , especially as more countries treat it as polite diplomatic afterthought and seek solutions to major global problems elsewhere . we have seen this on issues ranging from syria to iran , north korea , terrorism , cyber security , asylum-seekers , and refugees , migration , ebola , and the emerging humanitarian-aid crisis . while the un still has many strengths , it also has clear structural weaknesses .
the decision to launch february 15 as a day of mass protest was apparently taken at a meeting of activists at the european social forum in florence last november . in ninety days , these organizers turned out to be more than five million protestors worldwide . there are three keys to this phenomenon : the internet allowed for the rapid spread of organizational plans at extraordinarily low cost to the organizers . mass action depended on local organizations seizing the initiative , based on loose global plan .
how better to memorialize that decision than with a building boom in prison ? the new facility for which money is to be earmarked will house 106 prisoners ( the precise number is uncertain ) , who have been neither tried nor charged . eight of the inmates are now entering the second month of a hunger strike . according to america ’s southern command spokesman , which oversees gitmo , hunger strikers are disillusioned , because they believed obama ’s pledge to close gitmo . indeed , they are cleared to leave , and it is only obama ’s failure to keep his promise – and america ’s congress ’s failure to legislate their transfer – that keeps them there .
flows of technology and innovation ( ai ) are driving up technology ( and knowledge ) flows between china and the rest of the world would support the development of globally competitive , productivity-enhancing solutions ; decreased flows would undermine global productivity . the world can also decide how to facilitate more or fewer flows of technologies that are increasingly subject to security reviews . according to our simulation , $ 8-12 trillion could be at stake , depending on the extent to which technology flows unleash innovation and productivity growth . it is important to note that these choices are not just china ’s ; the world also has the decision-making to make . for example , by working together to reform the global trading system in ways that strengthen dispute resolution and boost inclusiveness , countries could ensure that the benefits from increased chinese ( and other ) trade are broadly shared .
whereas greece remains mired in depression , iceland – which is not in the eurozone – has essentially recovered . to be sure , as the american economist barry eichengreen argued in 2007 , technical considerations make exiting the eurozone difficult , expensive , and dangerous . but that is just one side of the ledger . using iceland as our measure of stick , the cost to greece not exiting the eurozone is equivalent to 75 % of gdp per year – and counting . it is hard to believe that if greece abandoned the euro in 2010 , the economic fallout would have amounted to even a quarter of that .
last march , as rumors circulated that he was losing the vote , maliki asserted that state security would be threatened if he lost , noting his responsibility to maintain order . when he loses , he demanded a recount , not as a candidate , but in his capacity as commander-in-chief . the fact that maliki , despite his incumbency , was unable to secure a second term seven months after the elections attests to widespread opposition to his continued rule among iraq ’s political class . there is only one way to explain america ’s administration ’s decision to exert such diplomatic pressure in favor of iran ’s favorite in iraq : obama ’s pledge during his first presidential election campaign to disengage iraq during his first term . in this , obama follows the example of president george w. bush , who let the american electoral agenda , rather than the american one – not to mention iraq – national interests , dictate iraq ’s policy .
in its emphasis on signal significance , economics enters postmodernist territory . the signal – in this case , the promise to balance books – creates reality . people start behaving like the books , ignoring reality . when one believes that narrative , one acts in ways that make it come true . in fact , i do not believe that osborne himself has ever attached significance to signaling the effects of his pronouncements .
in response to dwindling donor funds , ghanaian governments brought the country ’s private-sector leaders together to launch ghana ’s malaria foundation , which is currently working to fill urgent funding gaps , but will ultimately help to lead a sustainable , domestic effort to eradicate malaria from the country . this is a daunting moment in the fight against malaria . but it is also a moment of opportunity . for its part , novartis recently announced that it will invest more than $ 100 million in antimalarial r & d over the next five years , to help contain emerging drug-resistant strains . our focus now is on completing clinical trials for two promising new antimalarial drug candidates .
if sunnis come to believe that shia and kurds intend to treat them as second-class citizens , they will have no stake in maliki ’s government ’s success , and could once again begin to pursue their own political interests through other means , provoking another surge of sectarian violence . making matters worse still , factional conflict would undermine further developments in post-saddam iraq ’s identity . otherwise , the country ’s various interest groups could , like lebanon ’s feuding factions , turn to outsiders to negotiate solutions to their problems . there are good reasons for iraq to avoid lebanon ’s example in this respect . even in the best of times , lebanon muddles through a politically dysfunctional government and an army operating in the shadow of a large shia-dominated militant organization .
america had trade deficits with 101 countries in 2015 – a multilateral problem stemming from a saving shortfall that can not be addressed effectively through country-specific “ remedies . ” that is not to say that america ’s trading partners should be let off the hook for unfair practices . but it does mean that there is limited hope for resolving seemingly chronic trade deficits – and the related erosion of domestic hiring traceable to these imbalances – unless the us begins saving again . alas , this plot is about to thicken . trumponomics seems likely to exacerbate america ’s saving shortfall in the years ahead .
across the arab world , the fall of baghdad on april 9th is seen as a day of shame , reminiscent of june 5th 1967 , when israel defeated armies in three arab countries , conquering the west bank , the gaza strip , and east jerusalem in just six days . arab intellectuals , and indeed the wider arab public , are now busy trying to analyze and understand the lessons of the iraq earthquake . meanwhile , supporters of the former ba’athist regime in iraq and elsewhere are now busy defending the same old totalitarian mindset . their tactics have been to obstruct a clear review of the iraq catastrophe by suggesting that any criticism of saddam ’s regime is tantamount to supporting the american occupation of iraq . fahd al-fanek , for example , is now a columnist for the jordanian newspaper al-fanek .
meanwhile , the lower current-account surplus ( as a share of gdp ) could stem from its increased investment-income deficit . and , while recovery in the advanced economies boosted exports , persistent overcapacity , combined with slower household-consumption growth than in 2012 , caused investment to rise , albeit still rapid , to decline to its lowest level in the last 11 years . in principle , a country can run a current-account deficit or a persistent surplus for decades . but china ’s chronic surpluses are problematic , and they are problematic for decades . given that china remains among the world ’s poorest countries , with per capita income amounting to less than $ 7,000 , its position as the world ’s largest capital exporter signifies a gross misallocation of resources .
madrid – by july 29 , according to the world sustainability organization ’s global footprint network , humanity will have used the earth ’s resource budget for the year to come . this “ earth overshoot day ” has moved forward by an astonishing two months in the last 20 years and in 2019 , it will arrive earlier than ever . although humanity ’s increasing environmental impact manifests itself in many ways , climate change has the broadest and longest-lasting effects . carbon-dioxide emissions from burning fossil fuels account for an estimated 60 % of our ecological footprint . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
the economic boom is the only source of legitimacy left by the one-party state . few people , even party members , still believe in marxism-leninism , let alone maoism . and widespread discontent with official corruption and political oppression amply demonstrated in all of china ’s regions in 1989 . the communist government managed to remain in power after tiananmen square not just through brute force . semblance of political legitimacy , especially among the educated middle class , was bought with the promise of greater wealth .
but , given pressing housing and infrastructure shortfalls around the world , this is no longer sustainable . urbanization may be leveling off in many advanced economies , but it will continue in emerging countries . the world ’s 20 largest cities , 75 % of which are in asia , will need an estimated 36 million new housing units by 2025 . moreover , in 2014 , an estimated 330 million urban households lived in substandard housing , or struggled financially because of housing costs ; that figure is projected to rise to 440 million by 2025 . even in an advanced economy like the united states , more than 40 % of california ’s population can not afford decent housing at market rates .
berkeley – one need not be particularly good at hearing to decipher dog whistles being used during this year ’s united states election campaign . listen even briefly , and you understand that mexicans and chinese are working with wall street to forge lousy trade deals that rob american workers of their rightful jobs , and that muslims want to blow everyone up . all this fear mongering is scarier than ordinary election-year fare . it is frightening to people in foreign countries who can conclude only that voters in the world ’s only superpower have become dangerously unbalanced . and it is frightening to americans , who until recently believed – or perhaps hoped – that they were living in a republic based on the traditions established by george washington , abraham lincoln , and teddy and franklin roosevelt .
put in these terms , the problem is always solved by giving more to those with the most political power . professor nicola rossi , economic advisor to prime minister massimo d’alema , in the title of his recent book , expresses the wish that we give “ less to fathers and more to sons . ” but if unions are powerful or seniors in the majority ( in italy the two coincide , because seniors are the majority in all labor unions ) , the exact opposite happens . italy ’s recent budget , which neither confronted the issue of pensions nor the issue of fiscal reform , demonstrates this fully . here is the grand delusion of italy ’s budget and finance ministry .
oslo – education is a human right , and it is a human right . and , like other human rights , it can not be taken for granted . worldwide , 59 million children and 65 million adolescents are out of school . more than 120 million children are not complete primary education , and the world is more than 50 million young children . beyond these figures , children and youth are being denied not only the right but the opportunities : a fair chance to get a decent job , escape poverty , support their families , and develop their communities .
small farmers , both women and men , are africa ’s largest agricultural investors . and agriculture-driven gdp growth is more than twice as effective in reducing poverty as growth in other sectors . but african farmers are meeting significant barriers to achieving their potential . on average , they apply less than 10 kilograms of fertilizer per hectare , compared to 140 kilograms in india . moreover , less than 5 % of agricultural land is irrigated , and improved crop varieties rarely employ them .
the question is whether decision-makers are prepared to use them . obviously , most eu governments are not . but why are developing-country governments dragging their feet ? are the risks so high that they justify suffering that could have been avoided ? gm foods have now been on the market in the us for more than 12 years .
of the roughly $ 200 trillion in global financial assets today , almost three-quarters are in some form of debt instruments , including bank loans , corporate bonds , and government securities . the derivatives market certainly helps spread risk more widely than this superficial calculation implies , but the underlying point stands . certainly , there are some good economic reasons why lenders have such insatiable appetite for debt . imperfect information and the difficulty of monitoring firms pose significant obstacles to idealized risk-sharing instruments . but policy-induced distortions also play an enormous role .
italian exports to china currently total roughly € 13 billion ( $ 14.7 billion ) per year , while imports total roughly € 29 billion . moreover , a partnership with china could attract the additional capital inflows that italy sorely needs , given its banks ’ constrained lending . while italy has received roughly € 14 billion in chinese investment since 2000 , chinese firms have invested € 10.5 billion in 55 bri countries in the first ten months of 2018 alone , and have signed bri projects worth more than $ 80 billion . nonetheless , there are several compelling reasons why italy should not go down this bilateral bri route with china , but rather deepen engagement with it as part of the eu ’s 2016 strategy toward china . for starters , italy ’s interests may not align with those of china .
after years of economic stagnation and even crisis , the public ’s patience has worn thin . to be sure , many latin american leaders have , in recent decades , risen to power on the promise of leveling the playing field . and their interventions – including income redistribution , fiscal and monetary expansion , protectionism , discriminatory regulation , and capital controls – have brought some short-term benefits , especially to the poor . but such measures have often been plagued by populism and ultimately done more harm than good . relying on commodity revenues to fund their social programs , these leaders have failed to diversify their economies or improve their economic fundamentals .
his eloquent resignation letter made clear that he objected not only to the syrian blunder , but to a pattern of behavior : trump ’s confusion of allies and opponents ; his willingness to abandon friends such as the kurds ; and his trashing of alliances , such as nato . mattis ’s friends explained in television interviews that what most troubled the retired four-star marine general and defense intellectual was not just that he could no longer affect policy , but also that his remaining in the cabinet was taken as an affirmation of trump , a position that he could no longer bear . even that doughty loyalist , senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , issued a statement on thursday that he was “ distressed ” by mattis ’s departure ( a significant sign , many believe mcconnell ’s private worry about trump ’s effect on the republican party . ) members of congress expressed outright fear of a trump presidency without any guardrails . the list of departures from trump ’s administration is unprecedentedly long .
the government has reinforced its security system , placing itself in place a ubiquitous system of surveillance cameras . visas are being denied to anyone active in the name of human rights , with the unintended side effect of harming international business in china . but china ’s priority is not just to perpetuate economic growth . rather , it is to encourage growth while protecting its power monopoly . the regime is set to prove to the world that , once again , china can stage spectacular performance , and that its voice will be heeded .
he will have to become an internationalist left-leaning leader or internationalist right-leaning one . only one of those appears tenable . traditional center-right policies would not easily be compatible with a strong internationalist bent . if globalization , in its various dimensions , is to be backed by a popular majority , it will have to be accompanied by modernized social policies that provide effective help to those who need it . at a time of continuous economic disruption , this will be all the more important .
but there is an alternative that could help appease angry citizens and mitigate the revenue loss from an outright ban on smoking : electronic cigarettes . given that e-cigarettes merely heat a nicotine solution to produce inhalable vapor , they release none of the carcinogenic tar of cigarette smoke , making them the ideal “ jokowi delivery system ” for smokers seeking – or being forced – to reduce or halt their tobacco intake . aside from being far less damaging than cigarettes , e-cigarettes are homegrown products , invented in china in 2003 . but , despite significant progress in china ’s e-cigarette industry – in 2013 , shenzhen province housed 900 devices , up 200 % from 2012 , accounting for more than 95 % of global e-cigarette production – traditional cigarettes still dominate the chinese market . as yanzhong kong huang of the council on foreign relations recently pointed out , “ if only 1 % of china ’s smoking population turned to e-cigarettes , it would mean a market of some 3.5 million e-cigarette users . ”
the reason that un climate conferences keep failing is straightforward : their agendas – centered on voluntary , quantitative targets – are fundamentally flawed . agreeing to quantitative , universally applied emissions-reduction targets at the un conference is easy . but countries automatically regard adherence to those targets as sacrifice : in the effort to reduce emissions by x tons , we would lose y million jobs , with gdp falling by $ z billion . because there are no actual sanctions or punishment for non-compliance when push comes to shove , governments can simply change their minds . even if a government does try to uphold its commitments , say , by imposing new regulations on high-emitting industries , it may not obtain the desired results .
while china provides just 4 % of value added , it supplies core components to apple at low prices . apple can not build the iphone from scratch in the us , so it would have to search for alternative suppliers , raising its production costs considerably . this would give chinese smartphone firms an opportunity to seize market share from major players . today , 80 % of global trade comprises international supply chains . falling trade costs have allowed firms to splinter their production lines geographically , with goods processed and value added in multiple countries along the chain .
financial economists view luck-based compensation as a sign of governance problems . third , a higher ceo pay slice is associated with weaker accountability for poor performance . in firms with a high ceo pay slice , the probability that ceo turnover after bad performance ( controlling for the ceo ’s length of service ) is lower . lower sensitivity to performance reflects less willingness on the ceo ’s part to discipline the ceo . finally , firms with a higher ceo pay slice are more likely to give their ceo the option grants that turn out to be opportunistically timed .
there is only one europe , despite its diversity . any weighty occurrence provokes consequences across the continent . if europe is to become one , if the european union is to take in the new postcommunist democracies – which is , in the interest of all europe – a number of vital tasks must be undertaken , within the new democracies , as well as in europe and the atlantic community . to begin , europe must foster community in the postcommunist countries by restoring civil society . for a living society can not be restructured from above .
the eu and the us must remain firm and united in their policy toward russia . this approach offers the best chance of bringing the current confrontation to an end , compelling russia to engage constructively with the west . of course , if cooperation is to work , russia must earn the trust it has broken down , demonstrating its commitment to abide by the treaties and international norms of behavior to which it has agreed . when it comes to russia today , appeasement will not lead to peace ; on the contrary , a conciliatory approach will only prolong the conflict . the sooner the west convinces russia ’s leaders that it will not return down , the sooner the conflict becomes over .
nine times out of ten , nothing really serious is happening – just a little distress for individuals or groups . but we are running the tenth risk … ” today , greece ’s european creditors seem ready to abandon their solemn pledges on the euro ’s irrevocability to insist on collecting some crumbs from the country ’s pensioners . should they press their demands , forcing greece to exit , the world will never again trust longevity in the euro . at a minimum , the eurozone ’s weaker members will undergo increased market pressures .
it is certainly preferable to a plutocracy in which wealth determines status or gerontocracy , in which age leads one to the top , or even an aristocracy in which what counts are inherited titles and properties . so meritocracy seems preferable , at least at first glance . but on closer inspection , things are not so simple . for many , france has long been the epitome of meritocracy . most of those at the top reach not only the civil service and the judiciary , but also politics , business , and academia used to be graduates of the famous grandes écoles .
at america ’s most elite universities , for example , only around 9 % of students come from the bottom half of the population , while 74 % come from the top quarter . most societies recognize a moral obligation to help ensure that young people can live up to their potential . some countries even impose a constitutional mandate for equality of educational opportunity . but in america , more is spent on education for rich students than on education for the poor . as a result , the us wastes some of its most valuable assets , with some young people – bereft of skills – turning to dysfunctional activities .
the au has now threatened sudan ’s new rulers with suspension from the group unless they transfer power to civilian authority . even if sudan ’s military leaders succumb to au pressure , however , political stability is far from guaranteed . for decades , le pouvoir used oil revenues to buy relative public quiescence through massive subsidies . but those reserves were concentrated in the south , and were thus lost when south sudan seceded in 2011 . and now political stability is gone .
istanbul – the challenge of ensuring adequate , nutrient-rich food for an expanding global population is daunting , especially given constraints on key resources like water and agricultural land . as it stands , the two leading approaches to enriching and enlarging the world ’s food supply are genetic engineering and industrial processing with additives and chemicals . a third solution is now emerging : vertical farming . academic studies have found that locally cultivated vertical farms – stacked greenhouses that use artificial light to grow crops – can provide substantial savings , which could then be passed along to consumers . but questions about such farms ’ fundamental economics , especially for commodity crops , have persisted .
what it does mean is that the problem is political . pensioners are among the most powerful lobbies in a democracy , and politicians are loath to confront them on so fundamental an issue . still , we need to confront squarely intergenerational issues at the heart of today ’s economic dilemmas . our pension systems and our national budgets must be based on a “ generational accounting ” that assures that economic risk spreads systematically across generations . what this means is that pension and tax institutions must be designed to take a better account of changing circumstances facing different generations , rather than making fixed promises – most likely not to be kept , anyway – of some payouts in the future .
lower financing costs for public debt appear to be a net gain to society , because the government then saves on the service of debt and can keep taxes lower . but any gains from lower taxes are more than offset by the private sector ’s losses , which , faced with higher financing costs , will invest less , in turn driving economic growth – and thus reducing government revenues . many steps have been taken in recent years to reinforce regulation of the banking system . but what is proposed now will force lending to investment even less attractive and increase the incentive to concentrate sovereign risk in the banking sector . this can only worsen europe ’s sovereign-debt problem and weaken its already meager growth prospects .
the plo succeeded in gaining european support for a unilateral palestinian declaration of statehood . the only remaining obstacle to palestinian leaders is the americans . when palestinians asked mitchell for assurances that the us would support such a declaration of statehood if talks failed , mitchell responded that such a commitment would make negotiations pointless . instead , the americans have their own ideas about how to achieve a breakthrough , especially with israel , which the obama administration believes is now a major obstacle . to effect change in israel , the americans are launching various trial balloons .
the commercial calculus behind this business sometimes incited riots until anatomy laws allowed the bodies of executed murderers and unclaimed dead to be used , thereby reassuring middle - and upper class individuals that their bodies would not be involved . these old tensions assumed new dimensions as the commercial potential of human tissue catches entrepreneurial imagination . but few laws are in place to address the uses of cells , tissues , and genes . the most familiar case concerning the body as property is that of john moore , a patient who developed hairy cell leukemia and had his spleen removed at the ucla school of medicine in 1976 . his physician patented certain chemicals in moore ’s blood without his knowledge or consent , set contracts , and sold rights to the swiss pharmaceutical company to produce drugs from the “ mo ” cell line .
but germans , undaunted by all this , simply keep celebrating one great soccer party with their newfound friends from around the world . black , red , and gold german tricolor adorns the entire country as never before , but almost nowhere are nationalist undertones . in fact , the flags of many nations fly alongside germany . in berlin , as in other large german cities , taxi flags sport their drivers ’ home countries – from angola to saudi arabia . fans don not only their peoples ’ flags , but also fanciful costumes evocative of their home countries ’ colors .
meanwhile , the epidemic ’s death toll has continued to mount . to prevent the ebola outbreak from escalating further , relevant actors – from health workers to government officials – must re-engage the affected communities and win back their trust . fortunately , as neighboring rwanda has proven , this is entirely possible . in 1994 , rwanda endured a brutal genocide , in which an estimated 800,000 people were killed in space of just 100 days . thisharrowing experience left behind destroyed property , a failed state , and traumatized populations with little faith in local or international institutions.national basic immunization coverage was less than 30 % .
at the london anti-corruption summit on may 12 , world leaders – together with business and civil-society representatives – will have a critical opportunity to act on this recognition . corruption decried across cultures and throughout history , and it has existed as long as government has ; but , like other crimes , it has grown increasingly sophisticated over the last few decades , with devastating effects on the wellbeing and dignity of countless innocent citizens . for starters , corruption cripples development prospects . when , say , public-procurement fraud is rampant or royalties for natural resources are stolen at source , or the private sector monopolized by a narrow network of cronies , populations are unable to realize their potential .
the protests began when the government attempted to enact amnesty legislation that overturned former prime minister thaksin shinawatra ’s conviction – yingluck ’s brother and ptp founder , overthrown by the military in 2006 – on charges of corruption and abuse of power . ( it would also supersede the murder charges brought against the democratic party ’s leader , former prime minister abhisit vejjajiva . ) but yingluck ’s subsequent attempt to backtrack on amnesty measures failed to mollify the opposition . in fact , the street protests intensified , fueled by new grievance . yingluck ’s government refused to accept the constitutional court ’s ruling against a bill to change the senate from a half-appointed chamber to a fully elected chamber .
new presidents of the european commission , the european council , and the european central bank will be appointed , and a new high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy will be chosen . if nationalist euroskeptic parties become the largest group in the european parliament , these appointments could represent an abrupt break from the past . eu member states are more divided now than ever before , even on the most fundamental issues concerning the european project . the broad pro-european consensus of the past has been replaced by resurgent nationalism . moreover , east is increasingly pitted against the west , with the north opposing the south .
freetown , sierra leone , donors – like the world bank and the world health organization , often urge developing countries to invest in national health systems . but while rushing to construct clinics and other medical facilities in even remotest regions , it may seem as straightforward an approach to ensuring universal health coverage , which has not turned out to be true . the recent ebola epidemic in west africa highlighted the urgent need for stronger , more efficient , and more resilient health-care systems in developing countries . but when countries rush to build more clinics , the resulting facilities tend to be hastily constructed and lacking in the equipment , supplies , and staff needed to deliver vital health services effectively . in my frequent visits to rural areas of my native sierra leone , i saw more than a few health facilities that communities could do without .
to be sure , if wilson were alive today , he might agree with trump on some issues , though his proposed solutions would be very different . wilson , for example , would probably concur with trump that the level of openness in global markets today is excessive . indeed , it is problematic that america ’s banks and businesses can export capital , technology , and jobs as they please , with little or no regard for domestic costs . but wilson ’s solution would likely focus on developing and implementing improved regulations through a multilateral process dominated by democracies . likewise , he would probably advocate a fiscal policy aimed at advancing the common good , with higher taxes on the wealthiest companies and households funding , say , infrastructure development , quality education , and universal health care .
but in march 2010 , in a move i believe that was key to our subsequent growth , i announced “ englishnization , ” a blueprint to make english corporate language within two years . the goal was to lay the groundwork for global expansion in an industry that competes aggressively for internet-savvy talent . when i announced englishnization , only 10 % of our workforce was proficient in english . unsurprisingly , some on my team were apprehensive ; others , especially those outside the firm , thought i was a little crazy . but , just seven years later , titans of corporate japan are looking for our advice in how to build a global brand headquartered in japanese capital .
but that would only further weaken banks ’ loan portfolios at a time when european regulators are desperate to strengthen them . the ecb ’s decision to provide unlimited liquidity to banks does not solve governments ’ debt problems , nor is its intent . but it does at least prevent the debt problem from creating banking problems , which in turn worsen the debt problem without end . europe ’s second vicious spiral runs from fiscal consolidation to slow growth and a return to fiscal consolidation . tax increases and cuts in public spending are still needed ; there is no avoiding this reality .
add economics to this recipe as well . price regulations and other ill-considered features of european policy contribute to the fact that 60 % of the world ’s new drugs are developed in the us , compared to 40 % only ten years ago . this sterility and inertia make europe less and less interesting for americans . so american eyes turn elsewhere : to china with its 1.3 billion people and an economy growing at 8-10 % , year in and year out , and to india , with its 1.1 billion people and 6 % annual growth . indeed , india now has some of the world ’s best engineers , technicians , and medical professionals .
but they will probably die much faster if we suddenly contact them , bringing with us modern pathogens against which they have no antibodies . these tribes might be isolated , but their demise will have serious consequences . with their reverence for – and understanding of – nature , such groups serve as the world ’s environmental sentinels , safeguarding 80 % of global diversity , and playing a critical role in mitigating climate change and adaptation . when the devastating 2004 indian ocean tsunami struck , more than a quarter-million people died across 14 countries , but the two isolated andaman tribes that rely on traditional warning systems suffered no known casualties . but , as bolsonaro ’s promises underscore , indigenous societies pitted directly against loggers , miners , crop planters , ranchers , oil drillers , hunts , and other interlopers .
in my former professional roles , i witnessed as few others that poland and hungary had entered the euro-atlantic institutions . i saw firsthand the eagerness and hope of their peoples at this momentous time . that is why it is so hard for me to understand their position today . of course , it is not unreasonable that poland and hungary , whose sovereignty was largely usurped by the soviet union , are particularly sensitive to external efforts to shape their decision-making , and to a stronger sense of national identity than other eu countries . but rejecting the eu will not insulate them from the uncertainty that arises from globalization .
no particular country or group has created international maritime law as it exists now . it is the product of humanity ’s collective wisdom , cultivated over a great many years for the wellbeing of all . today , many of the benefits for humanity depend on the seas from the pacific to the indian oceans remaining fully open . but what , exactly , does that mean ? if we distill the spirit that we infused into international law over the ages and reformulate it as three principles , the rule of law at sea becomes a matter of common sense .
when perpetrators of sexual violence are called into high-profile settings , such as the un , it becomes difficult for individual states to ignore activists ’ demands . effective solutions , of course , must consider local context . sexual violence can take many forms ; understanding its possible purpose can help to predict and prevent its use . for example , armed groups that use force as a recruiting tool are more likely to commit egregious forms of sexual violence than groups that recruit through other means . moreover , people living in the shadow of armed groups with genocidal goals have a higher risk of being targeted by sexualized violence – for example , by forced pregnancies .
because an enlarged union will become a reality in just two months , concepts for cultural understanding that contribute to the new members ’ successful integration are imperative . some values , long espoused by the union , should be relatively easy to convey . a decade ago , with the maastricht treaty , eu members agreed to respect history , culture , and traditions of all their constituent peoples . the draft constitution , which recently failed to gain acceptance in the first round of negotiations , not only promises to respect cultural heritage ; it obliges the union to actively protect , maintain , and develop the wealth of europe ’s cultural and linguistic diversity . but europe can succeed in this task only if its various constituent cultures do not seal itself off from one another .
if successfully implemented , this agenda is likely to reverse the global saving and consumption patterns that have underpinned large imbalances in recent years . china is responsible for the saving side , while america disproportionately accounts for the consumption side , ultimately turning the chinese into america ’s creditors . to be sure , global saving and consumption patterns have undergone a major change since the financial crisis , with both the west and china trying to restore internal equilibrium . doubling average household income by 2020 – the target set by the chinese communist party ’s 18th congress in november – is likely to release a $ 64 trillion renminbi ( $ 10.3 trillion ) in purchasing power , with china ’s huge internal market gradually becoming a new long-term driver of domestic and international growth . this model presupposes that china will develop domestic capital rather than simply relying on foreign investment .
i understand reding reticence – and her frustration . i do n’t like quotas either ; they run counter to my belief in meritocracy . but when one considers the obstacles to achieving a meritocratic ideal , it does look as if a fairer world must be temporarily mandated . after all , four decades of evidence have now shown that corporations in europe as much as the us evading meritocratic hiring and promoting women to top positions – regardless of how much “ soft pressure ” is placed on them . when women break through to the corporate power summit – as sheryl sandberg recently did at facebook – they garner massive attention precisely because they remain the exception of the rule .
new delhi – in 2009 , when i competed in india ’s recent parliamentary election , i was something of a rarity . i was not a professional politician , either . by contrast , all other candidates in my constituency – indeed , most of the contenders across the country – devoted their entire lives to politics , many since their student days . i was not born into a political family ; i had no seat or political fiefdom to inherit ; and i entered a race without a political “ godfather . ” i had not even lived in india for decades , having spent my adult life working abroad for the united nations .
but , ultimately , the experiment failed . the fdp abandoned the frustration talks that , as its leader , christian lindner , put it , “ the four discussions partners have no common vision for modernizing the country or a shared foundation of trust . ” even without a jamaica coalition , germany still has a stable liberal majority in the bundestag . the same can not be said for the rest of the eu , where almost every other member state is now a “ 50-50 society ” : half cosmopolitan , half communitarian . in these countries , any government given time represents whatever side won the latest round in an ongoing culture war .
for starters , all countries need to define online child trafficking crime and integrate it into their national penal codes , along with tough punishments for violators . all recruitment activities , advertising , and financial transactions associated with online child trafficking should also be criminalized . raising awareness about the issue is also crucial – especially in developing countries , where illiteracy , poverty , and lack of age-appropriate sex education in schools can leave children even more vulnerable . parents must build trust bridges to make their children feel able to open up to their problems . faith leaders , too , should educate and sensitize their followers in this regard .
moreover , communities need to increase access to contraceptives and other sexual-health services ; one way to do this would be to revive or establish youth-friendly spaces and centers where information can be shared . after school and weekends , these spaces should be open to them , staffed with knowledgeable , sympathetic adults . special attention must be devoted to rural regions and people with special needs , often-overlooked youth segment . these reforms are essential to improving guyana ’s young people ’s life prospects . if more teenagers had access to sexual education and contraception , fewer girls would have their lives interrupted by pregnancy .
many are low-income workers who would otherwise have been unemployed . this suggests that stronger economic – and thus employment – growth would reduce the number of workers engaged in independent work . but , regardless of macroeconomic conditions , independent work is likely to account for a rising share of work in the long run , owing to technological advances and individual preferences . while digital platforms for independent work remain early in their development , employing just 15 % of independent workers , proliferating and expanding rapidly . mckinsey estimates that 30-45 % of the working-age population would prefer to earn an income , either primary or secondary , from independent work .
the demand for the abolition of censorship was one of the first polish political slogans of march 68 . demands for freedom of assembly and the right to organize followed . crucially , protesters did not demand free elections . in this they were realists , but they demanded civic control measures over the authorities , both in the political and economic sphere . one slogan was “ no bread without freedom . ”
new haven – in what could well be the final act of desperation , central banks are abdicating effective control over the economies they were entrusted to manage . first came zero interest rates , then quantitative easing ( qe ) , and now negative interest rates – one futile attempt beget another . just as the first two gambits failed to gain meaningful economic traction in chronically weak recoveries , the shift to negative rates will only compound the risks of financial instability and set the stage for the next crisis . adopting negative interest rates – initially launched in europe in 2014 and now embraced in japan – represents a major turning point for central banking . previously , the emphasis was placed on boosting aggregate demand – primarily by lowering borrowing costs , but also by spurring wealth effects from appreciating financial assets .
as a result , demand now falls short of any binding constraint . indeed , the price of permits fell below three euros in april 2013 , rendering the emissions-trading market almost irrelevant . this , in turn , encouraged greater reliance on highly polluting coal – the worst energy source , from the standpoint of global warming . that would not have happened if the price mechanism still underpinned climate-change policy . moreover , the eu ’s renewables policy has also proved ruinously expensive .
the task facing the imf will be formidable . of course , it will be important for the fund to focus on global imbalances , not bilateral imbalances . in a multilateral trading system , large bilateral trade deficits often balance bilateral surpluses with other countries . while china might want oil from the middle east , those in the middle east – with so much wealth concentrated in so few hands – might be more interested in gucci handbags than in china ’s mass-produced goods . so china can have a trade deficit with the middle east and a trade surplus with the us , these bilateral balances indicate nothing about china ’s overall contribution to global imbalances .
asked about their feelings the previous day , most americans ( 55 % ) said they had experienced stress during a lot of day , almost half ( 45 % ) said they felt worried , and more than one in five ( 22 % ) said they felt anger at a lot . ” stress , worry , and anger all hit ten-year american highs in 2018 . the us was the seventh-most stressed population in the world in 2018 , less stressed than greece , the philippines , and iran , but more stressed than uganda , turkey , and venezuela . these stress measures are consistent with another notable finding : americans ’ self-reported happiness has also declined in 2018 . asked by gallup how they would rate their life on a scale from zero ( the worst life ) to ten ( the best life ) , americans in 2018 responded with an average of 6.9 , down from 7.0 in 2017 , and 7.3 during 2006-2008 .
a written code – emphasizing the commercial benefits of ethical business conduct , and the negative consequences of falling short – is part of that effort and may help to preserve and reinforce a culture ; but a code alone is not enough . constant reminders and repetition are essential . employees must understand instinctively what can be done , and what should never be done . they must internalize a culture that values strict adherence to high ethical standards of conduct . to that end , banks should make their values and cultures integral to hiring , firing , and promoting decisions .
islamabad – one hundred years ago , women in the united kingdom gained the right to vote , and today most women in the developed world are enfranchised . but in many developing countries , the resistance that british suffragettes faced a century ago rooted in misogyny persists . this is certainly true in pakistan , where the general election set for july 25 provides an ideal opportunity to advocate change . at first glance , pakistan seems progressive . the law has allowed women to vote since 1956 , almost a decade after independence from britain .
in some cases , the outcome has been unexpected : some lending rates have actually risen . it was supposed to become apparent that most central banks ’ pre-crisis models – both formal models and mental models that guide policymakers ’ thinking – were badly mistaken . none predicted the crisis ; and in very few of these economies , some semblance of full employment has been restored . the ecb famously raised interest rates twice in 2011 , just as the euro crisis was worsening and unemployment was rising to double-digit levels , bringing deflation ever closer . they have continued to use old discredited models , perhaps slightly modified .
but mao ’s death did at least end the era of caesarism in china . because he had no son to succeed him , mao appointed a five-person politburo to do the job . his members , which included his nephew , mao yuanxin , his mistress , zhang yufeng , and jiang qing , his last wife – were as inept at governing as kim , but following the disaster of the cultural revolution , antagonism toward them in the military and other state institutions was too widespread for them to last . they , and the gang of four ( of which jiang qing was a member ) , were soon ousted . china ’s transit from caesarism to despotism , and then from marxism to capitalism , was fortunate to china ’s citizens .
we in ukraine learned this truth from the harsh experience of the communist era . although communism could , every now and then coexist with private property , and sometimes with private enterprise , it could never coexist with civil society . the most fateful attack to accompany installation of any dictatorship is the assault on civil society . in ukraine , freedom of speech was , on communism ’s fall , restored overnight . but reviving civil society – the many mutually complementary ways in which citizens participate in public life – is a complicated task , because the peoples of egypt and tunisia will soon find out .
then , imagine that america ’s intelligence agencies confirmed that the act of aggression was actually underway , despite putin ’s denials . finally , imagine how trump might respond . would putin call putin to ask what is happening ? and would putin make another “ incredible offer ” to help us investigators get to the bottom ? even more to the point : would trump quickly invoke the principle of collective defense under article 5 of the nato treaty ?
but these outside risks do not make the outlook for global growth necessarily grim . the baseline scenario for the us is still robust growth . european growth could be above trend , as it continues its long , slow recovery from the debt crisis at the start of the decade . and china ’s economy has been proving doubters wrong for many years . so 2019 could turn out to be another year of solid global growth .
argued by eugene scalia , the son of the us supreme court justice antonin scalia , the case against the sec won in the american appeals court , dc circuit , on technicality – the sec ’s failure to conduct cost-benefit analysis ahead of time . this small victory turned to a major defeat for shareholders when the sec , rather than performing such analysis and re-proposing the rule , chose to stall . at a conference last december , i asked sec chair mary chapter iro when her agency was planning to reintroduce the rule . i even offered to do the cost-benefit analysis for free . but she confessed that the sec had many other items on its agenda , placing the issue on the back burner – a polite way to say that the sec , like the heroic students in tiananmen square , surrendered under irresistible pressure .
but these are not normal times , either . indeed , the fed ’s monetary policy has not been sufficient to stave off a american recession , albeit one that remains so mild that many doubt whether it qualifies as the real animal . the european central bank ’s response has been analogous to the fed ’s , but less forceful , with monetary policy easier than headline inflation would suggest . and in western europe , too , gdp is now declining . in short , major central banks on both sides of the atlantic have responded to the financial crisis , but they have not overreacted .
when the opposition tried to challenge these inconsistencies , the eck abruptly declared kibaki the winner . days later , the eck ’s head publicly acknowledged that kibaki supporters had pressured him to announce “ results ” immediately , despite clear evidence of rigging voting . shockingly , he declared that he did not know who really won . eu observers also announced that the election tally had not met basic international standards . the election is a disaster for kenya , but the international community ’s response , led by the us , is no less distressing .
moreover , a host of risk premiums makes such indicators difficult to interpret . unsurprisingly , therefore , surveys of households and firms ’ inflation expectations forecast actual inflation more accurately . given that market-based measures currently conflict with most other key economic data , as well , little weight should be attached . it is also true that current global trade tensions have hit eurozone manufacturers hard , particularly in germany . but it is difficult for monetary policymakers to respond to the introduction of trade barriers .
but pharmaceutical companies continue to hold assumptions about pre-competitive collaboration boundaries that need to be challenged . at first sight , it seems counterintuitive that companies would want to share data , potentially giving away competitive advantages . but this presupposes that holding such data does indeed imply competitive advantages , and that a closed operating model is financially sustainable . drugs that make it to fund the costs of failure . as a recent morgan stanley report pointed out , the pharmaceutical industry ’s current success rates are inadequate to sustain large internal r & d organizations , making the industry ’s current operating model financially non-viable .
although the iranian government might most likely be deterred from using a nuclear weapon , the price of a nuclear-armed iran could well be a regional arms race – a nuclear saudi arabia , possibly followed by turkey and egypt . nuclear weapons , components , and materials in a region that is already volatile and violent , and that determines world oil prices , are an appalling scenario . the market has already taken the measure of past week ’s tensions , driving up the price of some oil contracts to their highest levels in eight months . attempting to force iran to back down with steadily mounting sanctions has produced no results . despite tightening economic noose – the american sanctions on all companies that do business with iran ’s central bank and the european union plans to impose sanctions on iranian oil exports by late january – many nuclear experts now estimate that iran is very close to enriching enough uranium to build a bomb .
this levy , strongly backed by those countries whose financial sectors are in tatters after the crisis , is hard to swallow for eu states that did not intervene to bail out their banks . the levy is an easy way to spread the political and financial costs of the crisis from some to all eu members . if applied , bank capital will become scarcer , credit flows slower , and bank fees higher in countries with a pretty stable financial sector simply because others spent a fortune to support their financial systems – and because the european commission never misses an opportunity to unify rules across the eu . the same is true , for example , for the derivatives trading system . post-crisis harmonization fervor in this area means that it will now be more costly everywhere in the eu to insure against currency volatility or unexpected interest-rate changes .
at & t , it offers scholarships through partner non-profit institutions and provides paid internships for up to 100 graduates . learnup , a san francisco startup that has attracted funding from some of silicon valley ’s largest venture capital firms , sets partnerships with employers to offer online training modules that connect job seekers to specific jobs , primarily entry-level positions that do not require university degrees . employers foot the bill , with the expectation that learnup will help them recruit higher-quality applicants . and , indeed , once candidates have completed the training , learnup helps them to secure interviews with prospective employers , which already includes a few large companies . the california community college system is already working with learnup to give students access to the skills required to fill available local jobs .
por– to the military coup that overthrew egypt ’s first democratically elected president , and led to arrests of muslim brotherhood leaders across the country , the country poses an enormous danger not only to egypt ’s democratic transition , but to the democratic hopes of the entire arab world as well . the fact that the coup was undertaken with massive popular support is a sign of the enormous difficulties that the muslim brotherhood faced during its first turn in power . president mohamed morsi ’s government struggled to address egypt ’s inherited economic and social crises in the face of the enormous public expectations created by the 2011 revolution , whose protagonists sought not only freedom , but also economic development and social justice . to be sure , the muslim brotherhood was also a victim of its own mistakes , particularly the failure of morsi and his government to reach out to the secular opposition , elements of which had contributed to his election . morsi ’s government seemed incapable of understanding that a slim electoral majority is not enough , especially today .
paris – earlier this month , pascal simbiwa ’s trial charged complicity in the rwanda genocide in which 800,000 people were killed between april and july 1994 , began in paris . unfortunately , mass killings in africa continue . in south sudan , africa ’s newest state , massacres of civilians still take place , particularly around libor city . and french military intervention in the central african republic has not put an end to severe inter-communal violence there . yet , paradoxically , even as such episodes continue in africa , perhaps on a larger scale than anywhere else in the world , the continent has also become a beacon of hope .
moreover , with growing concerns about the sustainability of america ’s fiscal policy , the euro has a huge opportunity to play a significantly larger role as the reserve currency . one shudders to think what will happen unless europe withdraws from its current funk . certainly , europe would lose traction as a badly needed counterweight to the us in world economic policy . europeans may not mind this right now ( one sees more obama t-shirts in europe than in the us ) , but they might not be so happy if george bush iii comes along . fortunately , europeans will probably not wait so long to start moving ahead again .
that implies that it was not appropriate to focus on growth until the deflation gap narrowed considerably – that is , until now . the third arrow is not a traditional industrial-policy approach . on the contrary , it emphasizes labor-market reform , deregulation , and corporate-tax reductions . a key component of abe ’s growth strategy is to expand the labor force – a major challenge , given that japanese society is aging rapidly . one logical solution would be to integrate more foreign labor into the japanese economy .
what is certain is that the vacuum left by sharon ’s departure from politics is all the more striking given the images of chaos emerging from gaza that israel vacated , and the collapse of the palestinian authority before our eyes . nor will the emergence of another providential figure come easily . not all exceptional periods generate their bonapartes , and this is probably a good thing , for exceptional leaders , may give the illusion that all problems have solutions far from true . the natural course of history in the most optimistic sense is progress “ at the margin , ” but the rapid pace of technological change is pushing us to expect equally rapid progress in human affairs . many of us believe that such an impossible wager can be fulfilled only with providential men , with all the hopes – and dangers – that this entails .
so , while the cameron government ’s support for deeper eurozone integration is welcome , the eurozone can not and will not be shaped from outside and according to british interests . the uk is not in a position to block the other eu member states from deeper integration , given that most other eu member states ’ political will to move forward . indeed , last year ’s negotiations on the “ fiscal compact ” should already demonstrate cameron ’s difficulty in exercising the so-called national veto . still , the uk has played a leading role in designing key eu policies , including single-market measures , overseas development aid , trade , and climate change . the uk leadership in these areas has been highly appreciated – and would sorely miss the british decision to leave .
but they will fault the us for not comprehending the larger war . it is already clear that the obama administration did not know what it bargaining for when , without thinking about what to come next , it called for assad ’s removal in 2011 . in july of that year , robert s. ford , america ’s ambassador to syria , was sent to the sunni town of hama , where assad ’s father ordered a massacre 30 years earlier . according to the us state department at the time , the visit was to “ express [ express ] our deep support for the syrian people ’s right to assemble peacefully and express themselves . ” did the administration really not foresee that assad – like his father before him – would have reacted to a popular uprising with violence ?
beijing – after years of intervening to manage the renminbi ’s exchange rate , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) is under pressure to float the currency . but striking the right balance between loosening its grip on the exchange rate and maintaining monetary stability will not be easy . all economics students learn mundell-fleming model , according to which an economy can not maintain a fixed exchange rate , free capital movements , and independent monetary policy simultaneously . if a country with a fixed exchange rate and an open capital account tightens monetary policy to contain inflation , the rise in domestic interest rates will give market participants an incentive to borrow foreign currencies and convert them into domestic currencies for domestic investment . the resulting capital inflows , if persistent , would generate upward pressure on the currency , forcing the central bank to maintain exchange-rate stability , intervene by selling domestic currency , especially the us dollar , until interest rates and money supply returned to their former levels .
american presidential candidate hillary clinton has a more targeted proposal : a 15 % tax credit for profits that companies distribute to workers over two years . by providing temporary tax relief , the scheme would help companies offset the administrative costs of establishing profit-sharing programs . to limit costs and prevent abuse , profits totaling more than 10 % on top of the employee ’s wage would be excluded ; overall , the amount offered to individual firms would be capped ; and safeguards against substituting for profit sharing for wages , raises , and other benefits would be established . tax credit could also foster changes in corporate culture , by spurring boan/level discussions not only of profit sharing , but also of sharing information and decision-making authority with employees . stagnant incomes in most american workers undermine the demand side of economic growth ( by discouraging household consumption ) and supply side ( through adverse effects on educational opportunity , human-capital development , and innovation ) .
most russians see no connection between prosecuting key figures and the authorities ’ credibility . on the contrary , people seem to identify with putin ’s message that the establishment is finally tackling corruption . but it is the message to russia ’s shaken elites that are more relevant . and that message is straightforward : no one is safe from prosecution , even if – like abyzov and ishayev – they have retired from public services and no longer have any influence . moreover , selective repression has become harsher .
it also supported a successor to the commission , a high-level expert group on measuring economic performance and social progress . last week , at the oecd ’s sixth world forum on statistics , knowledge , and policy in incheon , south korea , the group issued its report beyond gdp : measuring what counts for economic and social performance . the new report highlights several topics , such as trust and insecurity , that were addressed only briefly by mismeasuring our lives , and explores a few others , like inequality and sustainability , more deeply . and it explains how inadequate metrics have led to deficient policies in many areas . better indicators would have exposed the highly negative and possibly long-lasting effects of the deep post-2008 downturn on productivity and wellbeing , in which case policymakers might not have been so enamored of austerity , which has lowered fiscal deficits , but has properly reduced national wealth , measured , even more .
seventy-three years ago , john maynard keynes thought about reforming and regulating financial markets from the perspective of the first three purposes , and found himself “ moving toward … mak [ ing ] buying an investment permanent and insoluble , like marriage … . ” but he drew back immediately : the fact that each individual investor flatters himself that his commitment is ‘ liquid ’ ( though this can not be true for all investors collectively ) calms his nerves , and makes him much more willing to run risk … ” moreover , for keynes , “ [ t ] he ’s game of professional investment is intolerably boring and over-exacting to anyone who is completely exempt from gambling instinct ; whilst he must pay to this propensity for the appropriate toll … . ” it is for these reasons that we have seemed frozen for the past generation , or two whenever we have contemplated reforming our financial system . and it is why , even in the face of a severe financial crisis , we remain frozen today .
perhaps the most outrageous example is america ’s $ 0.54 per gallon of import tariff on ethanol , whereas there is no us tariff on oil , and only a $ 0.5 per gallon tax on gasoline . this contrasts with the $ 0.51 per gallon subsidy that american companies ( a huge portion of which goes to a single firm ) receive on ethanol . thus , foreign producers can not compete unless their costs are $ 1.05 per gallon lower than those of american producers . the huge subsidies meant that the us has become the world ’s largest producer of ethanol . yet , despite this huge advantage , some foreign firms can still make it .
the results have not only created a conflict between american federal legislation and state legislation , but also signal a shift in attitudes not dissimilar to same-sex marriage . just as important , however , was president barack obama ’s reaction to the colorado and washington votes – both states that he won easily in his re-election bid . the legal and political challenges implied are no minor matter : marijuana remains an illicit substance under american federal law and the international conventions that america has adopted . on other issues – notably , immigration – obama rejects claims on states ’ rights , insisting on federal authority . moreover , the topic remains highly sensitive : while public-opinion polls in 2012 indicate a small majority in favor of legalization , opponents remain vehement .
the result has been catastrophic , as ethnic rivalries sharpened . whatever else is said of such french-backed authoritarian regimes , hindsight leaves no doubt about the benefits of social stability seen in ivory coast during the period until the 1980 ’s , when france remained “ paternalistically ” engaged with its former colony . the political upheavals of 1999-2000 resulted in a new “ democratic ” constitution that became an invitation to civil war . regional and religious tensions were on the rise since houphouet ’s death , and were aggravated by a new constitution that enshrined ethnic discrimination . some four million northerners were denied political participation or land ownership on the grounds that they were descendants of migrants from neighboring countries .
these are highly educated people who know that knowledge is power have a clear agenda , and they benefit from the fact that education in the european union is the responsibility of national governments , not brussels-based institutions . these governments want to establish an education system according to which the state alone decides which fields of research are necessary and socially important . in the long run , they probably also want the state to grant political loyalists the right to produce and transfer knowledge . in other words , access to knowledge will cease to be civil right . political trustworthiness will determine who can teach and study what about a country and its past .
dubai – globalization , as many have recently noted , is in retreat . despite all its undeniable benefits , it has spawned governance problems and governance challenges that have exposed the inadequacy of national governments and international institutions . this has left people everywhere , rich and poor alike struggling to cope with problems – from failed states to failed banks , from over-fishing to under-employment , from climate change to economic stagnation – to which globalization has contributed but can not address effectively . fragile institutions have given rise to a political backlash , and to the dangers of disaster on many fronts . mark leonard , director of the european council on foreign relations and vice chair of the world economic forum ’s new global agenda council on geo-economics , has noted that interdependence , formerly an economic boon , has now become a threat as well .
london – for two decades , chinese diplomacy has been guided by the concept of a “ peaceful rise . ” today , however , china needs a new strategic doctrine , because the most remarkable aspect of sri lanka ’s recent victory over the tamil tigers is not its overwhelming nature , but the fact that china has provided president mahinda rajapaska with both military supplies and the diplomatic cover that it needs to prosecute the war . without that chinese backing , rajapaska ’s government would have neither the wherewithal nor the will to ignore world opinion in its offensive against the tigers . so , not only has china become central to every aspect of the global financial and economic system , it has now demonstrated its strategic effectiveness in a region traditionally outside its orbit . on sri lanka ’s beachfront battlefields , china ’s “ peaceful rise ” has been complete .
should the euro break up and gipsic countries default , germany alone would lose some € 545 billion , almost half of the aggregate sum mentioned , because the bundesbank carried out most of the net payments in the name of gipsic countries that are reflected in target balances . germany has the largest exposure by far among the countries that are rescuing the eurozone ’s crisis-stricken countries , thereby helping to ease austerity more than any other country . george soros underestimates the risks that mutualization of debt would pose to the future of the eurozone . when alexander hamilton , the first american finance minister , mutualized state debts in 1791 , he thought that this would cement the new american nation . but mutualizing debt has given rise to enormous moral hazard effects , inducing states to borrow excessively .
hong kong – looking back on 2016 , much could not seem to celebrate . in terms of global health alone , the year has emerged as one of unrelenting tragedy . beyond stories of hospitals in conflict zones being bombed , the zika virus has emerged as a growing threat . there has also been the proliferation of antibiotic-resistant microbes , or “ superbugs , ” the continued revival of yellow fever and the reemergence of polio in nigeria , which previously had been declared polio-free . hopes for a respiratory syncytial virus vaccine have been dashed .
when it comes to ensuring equity in banking , these precedents and existing institutions point the way forward . history also shows us that financial exclusion is a persistent problem whenever universal service requirements are absent . during the new deal era , regulators included the functional equivalent of such a requirement in charters for banks and thrifts . but these mandates were removed during the wave of deregulation in the 1980s , and banks quickly began moving away from low-cost financial services and toward higher-profit activities . this dynamic can be seen in the trend toward bank consolidation and branch closings , which has accelerated since the 2008 financial crisis and reduced access to services in low-income communities .
after all , the israeli government not only permitted the supposedly unapproved outposts to exist , but also supplied them with water , electricity , the internet , and military protection . this was not lost on all us leaders . in april 2014 , then-us secretary of state john kerry told the american congress that direct talks between israel and palestine went “ poof ” when israel announced 700 new housing units for israelis in the west bank . by december 2016 , obama was allowing the un security council to vote on that trump-derided resolution declaring israel ’s settlement construction a “ major obstacle ” to a two-state solution . it is not hard to imagine what palestinian negotiators had to feel as driven by the massive israeli settlements on the territory they worked to include in an independent state .
new haven : across europe and america , men in black tie and women in kenzo and armani gowns are once more summer pilgrims to places like bayreuth , glyndebourne , and glimmerglass . once again , state coffers are tapped to support these privileged retreats . perhaps , then , is the time to ask again a fundamental question : should the state continue to ladle out generous subsidies for such elite activity ? consider the incontrovertible beauty and spiritual depth : roman catholic high mass . does its grandeur mean that the state should subsidize it ?
so the key characteristic of foreign policy integration is that governments can not know in advance what they are letting themselves be in the eu . in the case of defense and warfare , unpredictability involves the possibility that young men will die in action . not surprisingly , foreign policy integration has not made much progress . this contrast underlines the fact that the great achievements of eu integration have taken place in that no-man ’s – land that lies between total national independence and a total loss of sovereignty within a federation . but foreign policy , as we have known it , is essentially a manifestation of a nation state or superpower .
we are facing a shortfall of $ 100 million for the new school year . without additional support from the international community , our vision will not be realized – despite strong political will and rigorous planning . lebanon often struggles to attract funding , owing to its status as a middle-income country , but this label is misleading , because it ignores the serious structural weaknesses that pre-date the syrian crisis or the vast share of its resident population composed of refugees from syria , palestine , and iraq living in abject poverty . one thing i hope will become clear at the oslo education summit is the need to help middle-income countries affected by fragility and conflict . i am thankful to the donors who have been with us since the start , but now we need additional international support .
what does this tell us about human nature , and our ability to live either prudently or ethically ? part of the problem , of course , is that we make resolutions to do only things that we are not otherwise likely to do . only an anorexic would resolve to eat ice cream at least once a week , and only workaholic would resolve to spend more time before tv . so we use the occasion for the new year to try to change behavior that may be the most difficult to change . that makes failure distinct possibility .
a second conclusion to be drawn from the current situation is that the fed has now overestimated the strength of america ’s economy for 11 consecutive years . elementary mathematics dictates that credible forecasts should at least overestimate half the time and undershoot half the time . if each year of fed forecasting were coin toss , we would now have eleven heads in row , and zero tails . the odds that this will happen are one in 2,048 . the fed clearly needs a deep look at its forecasting methodology and policymaking processes .
any study seeking to determine whether psychiatric disorder is over-diagnosed will find that some patients with the condition have it not upon re-interview . such is the nature of psychiatric diagnosis ’s imperfect reliability . the question , then , is not whether some patients previously gave the diagnosis seem to have it not to have it upon re-interview , but rather how many . how high a percentage should be before claiming over-diagnosis is a significant problem and a value judgment . but we think that an over-diagnosis rate of more than 50 % crosses the threshold of clinical significance .
in many previous banking crises , it was a country or region that was hit hard ( argentina , japan , etc. ) . this time , virtually every economy suffers substantially , and the banking crisis is global . policymakers will continue to throw whatever ammunition they can find at the problem , but it will take time for deleveraging from the boom to run its course . at a time of severe economic distress , policymakers thrash about seeking solutions , and some people lose confidence in the economic system itself . indeed , in the great depression of the 1930 ’s , it was common for western intellectuals to turn to communism and central planning as the hoped-for panacea .
washington , dc – steve bannon ’s extensive travels in europe this year have attracted little attention as they should have , given that he is a key theoretician of us president donald trump ’s signature brand of nationalism . bannon now wants to build a federation of nationalist parties in europe . and yet , one wonders how an “ america first ” ideologue can pursue his political project anywhere other than in america . by joining forces with french far-right leader marine le pen – herself an open supporter of russian president vladimir putin – bannon seems to have in mind a new type of “ neo-nationalist international . ” as more countries transform themselves into “ nationalist autocracies ” and “ illiberal democracies ” under strongman rule , nationalism has become an ideological common denominator .
one famous incident in the late eighteenth century was lord macartney ’s british mission to the imperial court of china . macartney refused to conform to chinese imperial protocol by falling to kowtow to the emperor , because he was not obliged to do the same to his own sovereign . this , too , was very much the case for “ keeping face ” : the chinese expected tribute ; the british lord insisted on the equal status of his king . as a result , the mission broke down . diplomatic immunity from local prosecution was an idea that sprang straight from another incident almost a century earlier , involving the arrest of the russian aristocrat , andrey matveyev , who represented peter the great in london .
if not , the bond price loss would more than wipe out the extra interest that it earned , even if rates remain unchanged for the next five years . here is how arithmetic works for an investor who rolls over ten-year bonds over the next five years , thereby earning 2 % more annually than it would by investing in treasury bills or bank deposits . assume that the interest rate on ten-year bonds remains unchanged for the next five years , and then rises from 2 % to 5 % . during those five years , the investor earns an additional 2 % annually for a cumulative yield of 10 % . but when the interest rate on ten-year bonds rises to 5 % , the bond price falls from $ 100 to $ 69 .
only the world ’s political and economic heavyweights , the leading industrialized countries that remain by far the largest hydrocarbons consumers , can initiate a change on a global scale . change must start in the transport sector , which accounts for more than half of current oil consumption – a share that is likely to rise in the future . the g-8 countries should therefore agree to no longer license any new , oil-powered cars from 2025 onwards . this decision would not be directed against individual mobility , but against dissipating a scarce resource that is more urgent to producing synthetic materials . political leaders should privilege no particular technology .
ithaca – us president-elect donald trump has once again managed to turn facts on his head . as part of a broader effort to take china to task for supposedly “ raping ” the united states economy through unfair trade policy , he has now reneged on his accusation that the country manipulates its currency in order to gain an advantage over its exports . such statements are as dangerous as unmoored from reality . make no mistake : trump ’s accusation of chinese currency manipulation is not backed by facts . on the contrary , for the past two and a half years , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has been intervening in currency markets for the opposite purpose : preventing the renminbi ’s value from falling too sharply against the dollar .
new delhi – late last month , when two indian states and national capital were held to ransom by rioting mobs protesting their spiritual leader ’s conviction on two counts of raping minor girls , many indians found themselves confronting several painful truths about their country . the leader who spurred these protests is gurmeet singh , one of the more prominent among several “ godmen , ” or self-proclaimed spiritual leaders who flourish across india . flamboyant , jewelry-bedecked singh calls himself “ baba gurram meet ” rahim singh insan – a hindu compound , muslims , and sikh names , followed by the word for “ human ” in hindi , punjabi , and urdu . and he has a reputation for having been sexually exploiting his female followers . in 2002 , two of those followers mustered the courage to press charges .
by contrast , some american policymakers continue to believe that iran would abandon its enrichment program if only the european union imposed unilateral sanctions . but a clear-headed analysis of iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s behavior indicates that eu sanctions would lead to more trade diversion , with china , russia , turkey , or dubai benefiting from reduced european exports to iran . of course , some imports would become more expensive for iran , but the economic effect of such sanctions would remain limited . politically , ahmadinejad would certainly not miss the chance to take advantage of unilateral measures for propaganda purposes – claiming that iran has a conflict not with the international community , but with imperialist states intent on depriving his country of technological progress . for these reasons , europeans favor a new security council resolution , even if its measures are weaker than what the united states or the eu could unilaterally impose .
no one could be more identified with the political elite than abe , the grandson of wartime cabinet minister and later prime minister , and the son of the foreign minister . and yet he shares right-wing populists ’ hostility toward liberal academics , journalists , and intellectuals . postwar japanese democracy was influenced in the 1950 ’s and 1960s by an intellectual elite that consciously sought to distance japan from its wartime nationalism . abe and his allies are trying to quash that influence . his efforts to revise japan ’s pacifist constitution , restore pride in its wartime record , and discredit “ elitist ” mainstream media such as the left-of-center newspaper asahi shimbun , have earned him the praise of donald trump ’s former strategist , stephen bannon , who called abe a “ trump before trump . ”
ensuring high-quality output and the loyalty of local consumers requires keeping their workforces happy and maintaining a positive public image . african countries , by contrast , often see the worst sides of multinational companies : energy , mineral , and precious metal companies go where resources are , not where it is pleasant to work . as one former mining manager in the region told me , “ the goal was always simple : get assets out of the ground and out of the country as cheaply and with as little fuss as possible . ” because the customer is abroad , and there is little processing to be done in the country , why should companies upgrade local skills or otherwise help the host economy ? but sub-saharan africa ’s potential relationship with global corporations need not be so limited .
london – the first big city to boom was london , starting around 1996 . the boom mentality spread to los angeles , new york , and sydney around 1997 to paris in 1998 , miami , moscow , and shanghai in 2001 , vancouver around 2002 . these and other cities have been booming pretty much ever since ; prices in most of them are up to 50 % in real terms since 2000 . this has been a big windfall for homeowners , but it has hurt anyone planning to buy . now , growth in home prices is weakening in some of these cities .
the government employs a host of new legal regulations , shadowy internet police , and a powerful hardware-based national information filtering system . control also relies on the demography of internet users , most of whom belong to china ’s economic elite and are more likely to adopt the internet as part of newfound consumer lifestyles than as a tool for political or social revolution . what is surprising is that the government ’s control mechanisms have been largely effective . but it is also spurring profound social changes rooted in a rising awareness of rights within society , something strengthened – and amplified – not only by the growth of the economy , but by the rapid spread of the internet . after two and a half decades of market-oriented economic reform , chinese citizens are increasingly aware of how to protect their economic and social interests by using the language of rights .
this european polity lacks the second crucial element of madison ’s scheme : diversified political representation at the federal level . individual nation-states , regions , and special-interest groups are represented within the eu . but , while common european causes arise daily , they have no europe-wide political representation . no single political party or politician in brussels can claim to represent the associated interests of european citizens , because none has to compete for europe-wide public support . as a result , nationally elected representatives are responsible for making crucial eu-level decisions .
is there anything more , indeed , that one can ask for a president ? and yet american presidential campaigns generally neglect discussion of advisers or intellectual influences . although a president ’s advisers may change , one would think that candidates would acknowledge them , if only to suggest where their own ideas come from ; after all , realistically what they are selling is their ability to judge and manage expertise , not their own ability as economists . this time , too , not to mention any deep economic thinker ’s name , or any particular economic model , has been mentioned . obama originally had a wonder team of economic advisers , including lawrence summers , christina romer , austan goolsbee , and cass sunstein .
for another , they will have to make their own distinct contributions . they can not simply wait for america to move , nor can they always seek to placate washington ’s preferences . in short , they will have to make their own efforts to sustain a common effort . what this distinct contribution could be is not difficult to define . after all , only the ingrained habit of playing second fiddle to the us prevents eu members from clearly and loudly distancing themselves from israel ’s repressive interferences on the west bank and gaza , even though such a stance would help to strengthen arab states ’ commitment to a coalition against terrorism , just as it provides useful shove to american diplomacy .
one reason for this is that small numbers of patients make the study of illnesses and testing drugs difficult . as a result , medical professionals often know little about the symptoms and biology of these diseases . earlier this year , i participated in a rare disease day program in california . the topic was an obscure but large collection ( more than 70 ) of diseases caused by a specific type of genetic error – one that takes place in the machinery of cells chemically attaches sugars to proteins and lipids . little is known about what causes mutations that give rise to these congenital disorders , and treatments exist for only a few .
markets become rigged , justice becomes transactional , and politicians sell themselves to the highest bidder . in time , this “ culture of corruption ” permeates society . in ukraine , even universities are compromised : degrees are regularly bought and sold . although corruption is more a symptom than a cause of ukraine ’s problems , the culture of corruption must be uprooted before conditions can improve . one might assume that this simply requires a strong state , with the means to root out corrupt politicians and businessmen .
nor should anyone expect a moratorium on settlement expansion . on the contrary , settlements offer cheaper housing than is available in israel , and thus resolve one of the country ’s main economic problems in the middle class . “ red lines ” in israel have a way to mutating into lines drawn in sand , which are then rendered invisible at the slightest wind . the new government ’s fragile equilibrium only reinforces this sober interpretation . in israel , obama will encounter a country that has indeed moved , but not toward a missing center .
as a result , the ratio of tax revenue to total spending this fiscal year has fallen to less than 50 % for the first time in japan ’s postwar history . if the government continues on this path , many expect the budget deficit to widen further . despite japan ’s fiscal weakness , the market for japanese government bonds ( jgbs ) remains stable , at least for now . japan had a similar experience in the 1990 ’s , the country ’s so-called “ lost decade . ” at that time , japan ’s budget deficit soared after the country ’s property bubble burst , generating economic stagnation .
mugabe 's regime has committed outrage after outrage . its catalogue of crimes includes : stealing the 2002 elections that allowed mugabe to hold on to power ; torturing and murdering supporters of the opposition movement for democratic change ; transforming a fertile , prosperous country once considered africa 's breadbasket into a place where half of the population barely survives on handouts from foreign food ; and , as exemplified in its daily news attacks , repression of critical voices . yet zimbabwe 's neighbors , particularly those in south africa , have defended president mugabe . in late august , the heads of state of the 13 members of the southern african development community ( sadc ) , including mugabe and president thabo mbeki of south africa , the leading regional power , met in dar es salaam , tanzania , to consider the challenges before them . among the 54 paragraphs of the final communiqué , two dealt with zimbabwe .
a 2014 pew study found that while only 25 % of respondents satisfied the direction of national policy , 60 % were satisfied with governance in their own communities . and the american constitution allows individual states to function as what judge brandeis called laboratories of democracy by experimenting with innovative policies without putting the rest of the country at risk . there is a long and rich history of successful experiments . state and local governments were leaders in establishing public primary and secondary education systems , as well as state colleges and universities . california , wyoming , and other states allowed women to vote – an example that encouraged the passage of the nineteenth amendment ( enfranchising all adult women ) .
should higher nominal ( that is , inflation-driven ) growth replace debt-driven growth ? europe must aim for sustainable , non-inflationary growth , and competitive job creation . the current 0.3 % inflation rate is the result of a significant decline in commodity prices and painful but unavoidable adjustment of costs and prices in peripheral countries . only greece currently has a slightly negative inflation rate . in other words , price stability reigns in the eurozone .
thus , record-high speculative prices have probably caused bunker traders to release inventories , but those releases may have been bought by speculators who are now active lessees of commercial storage capacity . the implication is that speculators may drive up prices and increase their inventories even as total commercial inventories remain little changed . additionally , oil market speculation may have induced “ echo speculation , ” whereby ultimate users buy refined products in advance to protect against future price hikes . they then take delivery on their premises in such a way that overall refined inventories rise , but that increases are not part of reported commercial inventories . proving that speculation is responsible for higher prices is always difficult , because it tends to occur against a background of strong fundamentals .
but both states lack the domestic revenues needed to sustain their institutions . if they wish to survive well in the next century , they will probably need to subsumed under a union supported by a larger , more powerful , and more established nation-state . moreover , the disintegration that the region has already witnessed – and will undoubtedly continue to witness – will reverberate beyond the arab map with the creation of a sovereign kurdish state . such a state , whether exisiting de facto or widespread formal recognition , will have an ever-lasting effect on the arab world ’s borders ( syria and iraq ) and the wider middle east ( turkey and iran ) . the arab spring has toppled some regimes , though not others .
we tend to think that new risk-management products such as novel kinds of insurance or financial derivatives will primarily be the interest of the rich , or at least the relatively wealthy . in fact , new risk-management products are being developed for some of africa ’s poorest people , asia , and latin america . it is important to recognize that the world ’s poorest people are not the same people from year to year . good fortune and bad fortune alternate randomly , and the poorest are particularly vulnerable when adversity – like hurricane sandy in a fishing village – strikes . so risk management , by smoothing bumps in income , can be extremely important to alleviating the effects of poverty .
that disconnect is nothing new ; there have always been tsars and serfs , politburo commissars , and proletariat . that postcommunist boris yeltsin , however , has sometimes proclaimed allegiance to a hazy collective sense of rossiyane ( citizens of russia ) deprived – or liberated – of opinion – russians of all collective life ; both the real life of shared hardship and the imaginary semi-life of communist solidarity . today , everyone deals with life and hardship individually ( a new word in our daily vocabulary ) , regardless of any kremlin desire to make life uniform . indeed , even russian uniformity today is different . in novgorod , i saw lukoil ( one of russia ’s big private oil companies ) gas stations .
greater international cooperation would maximize immigration ’s economic benefits . but , despite the potential benefits of cooperation in controlling illegal immigration , most countries , including the us and the uk , are seeking to reform their immigration laws unilaterally . they view cooperation as infeasible , given natural competition between destination and source countries for the most productive workers . a new system in which “ reversible bonds ” have replaced quotas and desirability screenings would diminish such competition , while mitigating the risks to destination and source countries . reversible bonds would act as an insurance mechanism for both sides , protect destination countries from fiscally motivated immigration , and protect source countries from the costs implied by the loss of talented workers .
every downturn eventually comes to an end . the mark of good policy is that it succeeds in making the downturn shallower and shorter than it otherwise would have been . the mark of austerity policies embraced by many governments is that they made the downturn far deeper and longer than was necessary , with long-lasting consequences . real ( inflation-adjusted ) gdp per capita is lower in most of the north atlantic than it was in 2007 ; in greece , the economy shrank by an estimated 23 % . germany , the top-performing european country , has recorded miserly 0.7 % average annual growth over the past six years .
twenty-five years ago , poland ’s people were stunned by the choice of their own compatriot , cardinal karol wojtyla of the pope . some were frightened , others wept with joy . here , a prominent writer , said , was “ poland ’s second baptism . ” but even in our euphoria , we did not expect how much the new pope would change not only poland , but the world . his first return to his native country soon thereafter showed to all the new pope ’s power .
though hong kong courts surely could have dealt with the issue on their own – under the “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong is assured an independent court system , in addition to the right to elect its own legislature – an enraged china intervened . restraint is not , after all , a leninist virtue . in an extraordinary move , china ’s national people ’s congress , standing committee , stepped in to “ clarify ” article 104 of the basic law , declaring that all oaths taken by office-holders must be “ solemn , accurate , complete , and sincere . ” leung and leung were barred from taking their seats in the legislative council . to most hong kong lawyers , display of political authority did not simply represent a reinterpretation of old rules , but rather a move toward new ones .
prodded by groups like the workers ’ rights consortium and the ethical trading initiative , some corporations promise to pay living wages , open their factories to monitors , and even provide employees a voice in the workplace . reebok , a multinational sportswear firm , advertises its corporate code as being “ based on core principles ” of the un ’s universal declaration of human rights . the company markets its soccer balls and other goods with a “ guaranteed ” label : manufactured without child labor . but sensitivity to human rights has done nothing to staunch the decline of trade unionism worldwide . the international labor organization reports that unions are in retreat in most nations .
the united states has already taken the next logical step . the us securities and exchange commission requires companies that use tantalum , tin , gold , or tungsten in their products to investigate these raw materials ’ origin , and to mitigate risks in their supply chains along the oecd ’s lines of guidance if they are found to originate in particular conflict-affected or high-risk areas . the 12 member countries of africa ’s international conference on the great lakes region have committed to similar mandatory due-diligence requirements . that is , as it should be , to be . responsible sourcing is a duty , not a choice .
they will conclude that they can have it both ways , maintain the benefits of economic integration without losing their ability to infringe on their citizens ’ rights or use eu financial transfers to build patron-client relations and reinforce their hold over the state . illiberal cee nationalists like hungarian prime minister victor orbán like to claim that they are defending national sovereignty from bureaucrats in brussels . cameron ’s initiative plays right into their hands , allowing orbán and his allies in neighboring countries to declare anathema any move toward ever-closer union and the strengthening of federal authority and legitimacy . the truth , however , is that cee countries have little to lose the way of sovereignty . most of their productive and financial assets are owned by foreign companies , just as most of the rules governing their economies have been determined by the eu .
the systemic crises in food , fuel , and finance that came to headlines in 2008 – and that are ongoing in many countries – have their roots in an economic paradigm that has not accounted for the value of nature and its array of life-supporting services . as the recently released report “ toward a green economy ” shows , pathways to sustainable development and poverty eradication ” shows , market economies as currently constituted have resulted in misallocation of capital on an unprecedented scale . indeed , deep and pervasive market failures – in carbon emissions , biodiversity , and ecosystem services – are accelerating environmental risks and ecological scarcities , undermining human well-being and social equity . that is why the link to governance and institutions at rio +20 is just as important as the transition to a green economy : markets are human constructs that require rules and institutions to guide not only their direction , but also their boundaries . one concern among critics is that a shift to a green economy will fundamentally monetize nature , exposing the world ’s forests , fresh water , and fisheries to the profit-seeking
third , as usual , israel has accused anti-semitism of those who dared to criticize its disproportionate response to hamas ’s indefensible rocket attacks and its collective punishment of palestinians . an italian cardinal who admittedly spoke intemperately was accused of using the language of holocaust denial . by that standard , does my unqualified criticism of hamas ’s rocket attacks make me an islamophobe ? coincidentally , the deadly assault on gaza came at the same time that a clutch of america ’s most distinguished would-be middle east peacemakers published books on how the task should be addressed properly . it all sounded a bit like a series of job applications – the war for president barack obama ’s ear .
a similar political imperative comes at the heart of sinhalese chauvinism , which has made a sudden return to public life in sri lanka . the sinhalese ’s religious and ethnic passions were encouraged during the final , bloody push that ended sri lanka ’s quarter-century of civil war with the tamil tigers in 2009 . but , instead of seeking reconciliation with the tamils following their defeat , then-president mahinda rajapaksa continued to play on ethnic hatred , as he subverted sri lanka ’s democracy . rajapaksa ’s unexpected defeat by sri lanka ’s ruling democrats and tamil political parties in last january ’s presidential election – an outcome that he then sought to annul – was intended to end both his career and race-baiting politics . but former president sri lanka is now mounting a furious comeback bid , and may well win the parliamentary election scheduled for august 17 .
these are not isolated examples of children caught in the crossfire ; this is what happens when classrooms become the actual targets of terrorists who see education as a threat . ( indeed , boko haram is literally translated to mean that “ fake ” or “ western ” education is “ forbidden . ” ) in at least 30 countries , a concerted pattern of attacks by armed groups , afghanistan , colombia , pakistan , somalia , sudan , and syria is the worst affected . such attacks reveal with stark clarity that providing education is not just about blackboards , books , and curricula . schools around the world , from north america to northern nigeria , now need security plans to ensure their pupils ’ safety and provide confidence to parents and their communities .
more scholarship opportunities for refugees , and greater funding for schools within and outside refugee settlements , would also be welcome . modest seed funding can go a long way toward helping refugee-owned businesses get off the ground . meanwhile , some companies and organizations – including wework , ikea , and starbucks – are developing innovative approaches to hiring refugees . global organizations are tapping into tech-savvy refugees networks and hiring them online . some , such as tent , are encouraging companies to hire refugees and integrate them into supply chains where they live .
that is why it is increasingly being rejected in favor of an agro-ecological model based on the principle of “ food sovereignty . ” the latter approach , endorsed by the un human rights council , calls on farmers to share their existing knowledge and seeds with one another , and to protect local ecosystems . next month , representatives from more than 190 countries will meet in sharm el sheikh , egypt , for the 14th meeting of the un conference on biological diversity convention ( un biodiversity conference ) . while there , they will consider whether to press the brakes on gene drives , ensuring that farmers and indigenous peoples are fully consulted before these technologies are unleashed in their communities . one hopes that the international community will uphold its duty to protect food supplies , as well as the rights of farmers around the world .
it is not exactly clear how long venezuelan hugo chávez was actually dead before his passing was officially announced . buying time to secure his own political future , venezuelan officials have carefully stage-managed chávez ’s illness and eventual death , even suggesting near the end , while undergoing complex and agonizing cancer treatments , that he was still “ walking and exercising . ” the information vacuum was reminiscent of the secrecy surrounding stalin ’s and mao ’s deaths , and the practice in the ottoman empire of keeping sultan ’s death a secret for weeks until the succession was settled . the emotional manipulation of the mise-en-scene surrounding chávez ’s death seems certain to translate into electoral support for his gray successor , nicolás maduro . but will this suffice to create a chávista lineage ?
governments in developed countries also have a role to play in affecting the nature of technological innovation . too often , they subsidize labor-replacing , capital-intensive technologies rather than push innovation in socially more beneficial directions , augment rather than substitute for less skilled workers . such policies are unlikely to make much difference in developing countries . for them , the main obstacle will remain that existing technologies allow insufficient room for factor substitution : employing less-skilled labor instead of skilled professionals or physical capital . demanding the quality standards needed to supply global value chains can not easily be met by replacing manual labor machines .
berkeley – on january 20 , 2017 , american president-elect donald trump will take office having received nearly three million fewer votes than his opponent ; and he will work with a republican senate majority whose members won 13 million fewer votes than their democratic opponents . only the republican majority in the house of representatives , led by speaker paul ryan , has any claim to represent a numerical majority of 55 % of americans who voted on election day 2016 . trump will also begin his presidency with approval ratings below 50 % . this is unprecedented – or “ unpresidented , ” as one of his semi-literate tweets put it ( before deleting it ) – in the history of such ratings . the us government of the world ’s oldest democracy is , in fact , not democratic .
the s-400 dispute is merely the latest example of how military procurement matters have created a rift between turkey and its western allies . in turkey ’s view , its western partners have not done enough , through technology transfer and joint-production schemes , to accommodate its burgeoning defense industry . in contrast , chinese and , to a lesser extent , russian firms have been more receptive to such turkish demands as part of the latter ’s military rements . and domestic defense-industry interests are only part of the story . more broadly , turkey and the west are experiencing a political , strategic , and geopolitical decoupling , reflected most recently by each side ’s differing threat perceptions and alliances in syria ’s conflict .
underdevelopment in many countries of the south that are faring poorly in their struggle to remain viable in a globalizing world creates conditions of desperate poverty , ecological collapse , and rootless , unemployed populations beyond atrophying state systems . we will not create a better world in the 21 st century by forgetting what happened in the 19 th th and much of the 20 th th th . this is not to say that our responses to the dangers emerging from past legacies must be rooted in the past . there is a greater need than ever for innovative , forward-looking approaches to global governance . as we embark on the still-new millennium , though , ironically , it seems clear that tomorrow ’s possible disorder may be due , in no small part , to yesterday ’s colonial order .
in bilateral negations with moscow , american officials have been offering four concrete bmd collaboration projects : · bi-national and multi-national jointly manned centers where russian personnel can see the non-threatening nature of us and nato missile-defense activities ; · joint russian expert studies regarding how bmd might affect russia ’s nuclear deterrent and what steps could be taken to minimize any problems ; · expanded nato-russian theater-level bmd exercises that build on earlier collaboration – disrupted by russia ’s august 2008 war with georgia – and that rehearse how deployed nato and russian forces can jointly defend against missile threats ; and · an underlying legal framework to support these and other cooperative projects .
under these conditions , trump ’s biggest and boldest policy proposals will likely run into budget constraints . he has already ruled out any changes to social security . his and congressional republicans ’ attempts to replace the affordable care act ( obamacare ) and curtail medicaid spending growth have been unsuccessful . and a temporary increase in defense spending will revert to insufficient levels after this fiscal year . although the tax package that trump signed into law last december ’s front-loaded tax cuts , and now helps the economy grow , government revenue has so far responded much to that growth .
the eu has always supported a two-state solution , despite challenging demographic realities , not to mention the need to preserve the identity of the jewish state . granting observer-state status to palestine would take off the table the prospect of a “ one-state ” solution , which has lately gained momentum among experts . but these sound reasons for supporting palestine ’s bid will probably not prevent the eu from delivering a split vote , reverberations of which will not only echo throughout the arab world , inviting accusations of hypocrisy , but will also impede european efforts to reset relations with countries in the middle east and north africa . a split vote thus undermines european interests , delivering an unequivocal blow to european foreign policy in a challenging geopolitical environment . indeed , europe ’s divided stance on the israeli-palestinian conflict exemplifies its poor track record of achieving foreign-policy consensus .
moreover , in countries where google is criticized for blocking access to information , it points out the absence of information when something is blocked – letting people know that it exists but that they can not have access to it . on the other hand , every time someone in china googles something and gets the answer – a product good and bad points , details about someone ’s government do not like – it must wonder , “ why ca n’t i get this kind of information about everything ? ” with google , people start expecting answers about everything . a little transparency inevitably leads to more . rather than demand an end to censorship now – an impossible dream – google is working to make that happen by eroding government control over information .
although no outcome was formally agreed or made public , several themes emerged from the beijing meeting . taken together , they offer reason for confidence that it may be possible to recreate an international consensus , so long missing in syria about how to deal with the hardest mass-atrocity cases . first , there was widespread acceptance that the “ responsibility to protect ” ( r2p ) doctrine , unanimously agreed by the un general assembly in 2005 , is here to stay . r2p recognizes that sovereign states have a responsibility to protect their people from genocide , ethnic cleansing , crimes against humanity , and war crimes ; that other states have a responsibility to help them do so ; and that if a state is “ manifestly failing ” to protect its people , the wider international community has a responsibility to step in with “ timely and decisive action , ” which might in an extreme case include military action if approved by the un security council . true , some chinese scholars remain inclined to argue that the entire r2p enterprise – particularly its sanction of military action in exceptional cases – is
so the global economy should indeed be thought of as the global capitalist system . global integration has brought tremendous benefits : the international division of labor , which is so clearly proven by the theory of comparative advantage ; dynamic benefits such as scale economies and the rapid diffusion of innovations from one country to another , which are less easy to demonstrate static equilibrium theory ; and noneconomic benefits , such as freedom of choice associated with the international movement of goods , capital , and people , and the freedom of thought associated with the international movement of ideas . but global capitalism is not without problems ; we need to understand these better if we want the system to survive . by focusing on these problems , i am not trying to belittle the benefits of globalization . these benefits , i believe , can be sustained only by deliberate and persistent efforts to correct and contain the system ’s deficiencies .
trump has been portraying the report ’s findings as completely exonerating him ( “ no collusion , no obstruction ” ) , even though the report explicitly stated that this was not the case . worse for trump , the widely admired mueller in effect recommended that congress commit the impeachment process . mueller explained that a controversial justice department policy intended to help president richard nixon , bars impeachment by sitting president . this is not in the us constitution . ( nixon was an unindicted co-conspirator in watergate burglary cover-up , whereas trump is one in new york city case involving his participation in pre-election payoffs to silence two women with whom he had sexual liaisons shortly after his son , barron , was born . )
russia ’s supposed “ peacekeeping troops ” in abkhazia and south ossetia , georgia ’s other secession-minded region , have in fact protected their rebel governments . russia has also been enforcing a complete trade embargo on georgia in the hope of weakening resolve by its pro-western president , mikhail saakashvili . should russia recognize abkhazia ’s independence , saakashvili might be tempted to respond militarily to prevent his country from unraveling . renewed conflict in abkhazia would not only bring the risk of open warfare with russia ; it is placing strain on relations with armenia , because there are close to 50,000 armenians in abkhazia who support breakaway governments . another risk in the south caucasus is that russia ( with armenian support ) will recognize nagorno-karabakh ’s self-proclaimed independence from azerbaijan .
europe must make progress on the first opportunity if it is to seize the second , and that means strengthening the eurozone . on this front , macron has already offered ambitious proposals : a separate eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister responsible for it , and a eurozone parliament ( composed of members of the european parliament and national parliamentarians ) to hold finance minister accountable . before germany ’s new coalition government was formed , a franco-german working group was established to consider macron ’s proposals . now that merkel ’s new administration is in place , we will figure out how far germany is willing to go to support greater eurozone cohesion . in the short run , the new government seems unlikely to support macron ’s proposals in their current form .
moreover , the recent establishment of two other large mdbs – the asian infrastructure investment bank and the new development bank , established by the brics countries ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) – will contribute further to a more balanced public-private mix in development finance . the financial crisis has also prompted some european , african , and asian governments to establish new ndbs , and other countries to expand theirs . as a result , ndbs ’ total assets reached roughly $ 5 trillion in 2015 . today , they are an important feature of most developed and middle-income countries ’ financial sectors , particularly china , germany , india , and south korea . and large ndbs can have a big impact , especially in emerging economies .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . as i pointed out earlier this year , the conservatives ’ plan would essentially solve one big problem – rundown britain ’s diplomatic service – by creating a much bigger problem : britain ’s loss of soft power .
so what should the us and other governments that support liberal democracy do now ? the answer could affect egypt ’s political future , and that of countries throughout the region . as many commentators have pointed out , from the islamists ’ standpoint , morsi ’s removal looks remarkably like the algerian military ’s overthrow in 1992 ( with the us backing ) of an elected islamist government ; the turkish military ’s “ soft coup ” in 1997 , when it forced an elected islamist government out of power ; and the american government ’s reversal of its support for “ arab democracy ” after hamas won elections in gaza in 2006 . if the choice for islamists is still bullets or ballots , bullets may now look more promising . more generally , military interference with civilian politics , for whatever reason , weakens the processes , institutions , and checks on state power that make liberal democracy work .
in the early 2000s , for example , rwanda and ethiopia recruited and trained thousands of such workers to lead the fight against malaria by educating communities on prevention and detection , distributing tools like bed nets , and administering treatment . as a result , the incidence of malaria fell by 75 % between 2000 and 2015 . yet the world continues to understate frontline health workers ’ capabilities and contributions consistently . this not only undermines their ability to do their jobs effectively ; it also puts them at significant risk , with widespread misinformation about vaccines fueling attacks against those who provide them . consider pakistan , where hardline clerics and militants view polio vaccination programs as western ploys to sterilize and spy on muslims .
once the potential “ military threat ” posed by the soviet union vanished into thin air , successive waves of nato enlargement served neither military nor ideological purpose . the west ’s rationale for enlargement was geopolitical : to bring the former soviet republics and socialist states of central and eastern europe into the western sphere of political and economic influence . at first , nato ’s new members were declared to have met both democratic and military criteria . later , these criteria were abandoned when nato began inviting even the most backward and corrupt states to join . nato , moreover , not only enlarged its membership , but also transformed itself from an anti-communist defensive alliance into offensive grouping ( with operations in yugoslavia , iraq , and afghanistan ) .
ironically , this led the imf to focus on its supervisory role . so , in seeking the causes of the imf ’s failure , we can rule out distraction by more urgent matters . normally , the fund expects that problems come from the usual suspects – economically volatile developing countries – but this time the crisis erupted several miles away from its headquarters . perhaps this proximity was at the root of the imf ’s failure to interpret the evidence right under its nose . if so , it is a failure that raises two key questions .
it is a shift that raises a major question : if those willing to act prove incapable of doing so “ successfully , ” what happens to global stability unless those who are capable are also willing to step in ? at the crossroads of this question stands nato , an organization perceived as american by europeans and international ( i.e. , not american ) by the average american citizen . but if nato is – for better or worse – in command on the ground in libya , it is the un that has given the necessary green light to french action there . it is this particular “ marriage of reason ” between france and the un , which is essential to understanding the french position on libya . indeed , the same relationship between france and the un that led to the country ’s resistance to intervention in iraq in 2003 has now pushed france to intervene in libya in 2011 .
but if that hour were really a lunch with a lobbyist , then ( and their aides ) would have to lie deliberately to conceal it . of course , there is no way to enforce full disclosure , but by creating explicit processes and expectations , we hope to reset norms . if an official meets with a lobbyist and is not ashamed of it , he can simply say so . voters can make their own judgments . and if an official meets mostly with lobbyists , at the expense of other kinds of meetings , voters can make judgments about that , too .
and there is the risk that tech giants will use their vast armies of programmers to develop a nearly identical product , and their vast legal resources to defend it . big tech firms might argue that all the capital they pour into new products and services is pushing innovation . one suspects , however , are intent on nip potential competition in the bud . it is notable that big tech still derives most of its revenues from its companies ’ core products – apple ’s iphone , microsoft ’s office , and google search engine , for example . thus , in practice , potentially disruptive new technologies are just as likely to be buried as nourished .
historically , both state and federal attorney general have preferred to prosecute “ occasional ” traders who stick out like sore thumb . for example , when a tiny italian bank received from someone who never traded a large order for shares of american shoe shortly before the company acquired an italian eyewear maker luxottica , it was not difficult to smell a fish . in other words , precisely because occasional traders rarely trade , it is much easier to prove the nexus of causality between their trades and the illegal tip . by contrast , it is much more difficult to identify a problem when a person makes hundreds of trades every day . in rajaratnam ’s case , the possibility of establishing such a link has come through telephone surveillance .
african girls are also disproportionately vulnerable to contracting hiv , and they are also disproportionately vulnerable to the virus . roughly 90 % of pregnant women and children with hiv live in africa , and despite notable recent reductions in hiv transmission rates , adolescent girls still account for more than twice as likely as boys of the same age to carry the virus . yet barely a third of young africans know how to prevent hiv – another reason for urgent and comprehensive sexuality education . another epidemic afflicting african women is violence , all too often perpetrated with impunity . sexual violence is used as a tactic of war , and it is not the case that we are not only in the world .
new york – many historians and economists insist that we live in an age shaped by vast and impersonal forces . the actions and decisions of one man or woman , regardless of how powerful , can not determine the destiny of nations . this may be true much or most of the time . but there are moments when individual leader choices can change the course of history . that has certainly been true in russia , and it may soon turn out to be true in turkey as well .
as i show in a new peer-reviewed paper , even if successful , the paris agreement would cut temperatures by just 0.05 ° celsius in 2100 . sea-level rise would be reduced by just 1.3 centimeters , and it would be only by the highest level . this may seem surprising : we constantly hear how every country has made important commitments to reduce co2 emissions – the so-called “ intended nationally determined contributions , ” or indcs . according to the un climate chief , christiana figueres , “ indcs have the capability to limit the forecast temperature rise to around 2.7 ºc by 2100 , by no means enough but a lot lower than the estimated four , five , or more degrees of warming projected by many prior levels . ” figueres suggested that the paris agreement would cut almost 2 ° c of warming , from 4.5 ° c to 2.7 ° c. by 2015 . though her wording was crafted to avoid actually saying this , it was predictably what most people heard .
anti-euro political forces are making electoral inroads clearly , and will continue to gain ground as long as growth remains anemic and unemployment remains stubbornly high . meanwhile , the eu will most likely not pursue substantial policy or institutional reforms in the near term , for fear that doing so could adversely affect the outcome of consequential elections this year in the netherlands , france , germany , and possibly italy . to be sure , an alternative view holds that brexit , trump ’s election , and the rise of populist and nationalist parties will serve as a wake-up call , spurring europe toward broader integration and growth-oriented policies . this would require eu policymakers to abandon the view that each country is solely responsible for getting its own house to order , while upholding eu fiscal , financial , and regulatory commitments . upholding eu rules is no longer practical , because the current system imposes too many constraints and contains too few effective adjustment mechanisms .
russians realized that they did not need to win at all costs ; they could be great without the kremlin ’s militaristic say-so . then the pension reform was announced , spurring a string of protests that drove putin ’s pledge to soften the measure while asking for russian understanding . yet , as of september 3 , 53 % of the population said they were ready to protest further . and on september 9 , while local government elections took place , tens of thousands of russians joined protests organized by the anti-corruption lawyer and opposition leader alexei navalny , defying the prohibition of “ political agitation ” on election days . navalny himself could not attend the event , after being arrested for an earlier unsanctioned demonstration .
by itself , china squandered its economic and technological potential , not because of external force . by the time europe and china crossed paths in the opium wars of 1839-42 , a technologically superior europe had vast military advantages , and so forced china into a series of unilateral , humiliating concessions . china ’s imperial state and society were destabilized by european incursions . the imperial dynasty collapsed in 1911 under external pressures and internal demands for change . change , however , did not come smooth .
the obvious success of these cities , as both government and economic centers , attests to the fact that urban land derives value from the presence of a well-planned city there . where land today is cheap will have great value in the future if only someone takes the dramatic step of planning and creating a whole city there . true , establishing such cities is a relatively rare event . private developers have trouble getting a large plot free of restrictions . but they tend to be ingenious at developing glamorous new areas from little towns within the hour commute from the major cities .
it can last for awhile , but it will create increasing friction with chavez 's economic realty and increasing chavez 's incentive to be authoritarian . there is no imminent crisis about this to happen , but chavez must choose venezuela 's future . if he opens the economy and adjusts the exchange rate , growth and stability will follow . if he follows through on his march /populist , 2001 will be a year of crisis . so far , venezuela 's elite and much of the investment community have assumed the worst and behaved accordingly : no plans for chavez , no options , just badmouthing .
growth is forecast to return above trend by 2005-06 . the average “ current-account ” budget surplus since this cycle began is 0.8 % of gdp . enormous surpluses in the three years since 1999 far outweigh the official deficits forecast in the next two years . this means that the treasury expects the average surplus to stabilize at 0.7 % of gdp until the cycle ends , allowing brown ’s strictures to be met . but independent forecasters are more pessimistic .
instead , strategies have been derived from the view that all our behaviors are selfish , with the intellectual challenge being to design “ incentive-compatible ” mechanisms or contracts , an effort that has also been recognized with nobel prizes . but , as george price showed long ago , darwinian evolution may have made us altruistic , at least toward people we perceive as members of the group that we call “ us . ” the new revolution in economics may find a place for strategies based on affecting ideals and identities , not just taxes and subsidies . in the process , we may understand that we vote because that is what citizens should do , excel at our jobs , because we strive for respect and self-realization , not just raise . if successful , the new revolution may lead to strategies that make us more responsive to our better angels .
such openly thuggish rulers as kuchma of ukraine or belarus 's lukashenka are almost impossible to imagine in romania nowadays . moreover , joining nato means subsuming romania 's military and intelligence services under nato command ( i.e. , american ) control , thus any attempt at staging a coup or stirring up trouble between romanians and our sizeable hungarian minority can be avoided . the more tightly tied to a democratic world like romania , the less likely it is to experience dramatic social or political unrest or eviscerate its democratic system . nato fixes hard limits on the autonomy of local political elites to do what they want . of course , nato can not protect democracy alone , and it is no panacea for our many social and political illnesses ; yet it can act ( and has already done so during the admission process ) as an incentive for governments and parties to behave responsibly and abide by the rule of law .
this is the underlying dynamic driving corruption in china today . in fact , the consequences of leadership deflation are easy to see : faltering economic dynamism and growth , rising social tensions , and loss of government credibility . the puzzle is why neither the compelling self-destructive logic of autocratic rule nor mounting evidence of deteriorating regime performance in china has persuaded even some knowledgeable observers that the end of ccp rule is now distinct possibilities . an obvious explanation is the power of conventional thinking . long-ruling regimes – think of the soviet communist party , indonesia ’s suharto , and egypt ’s hosni mubarak – are typically considered invulnerable , even before they collapse .
some readers may say that nikita khrushchev ’s granddaughter , falsely said , gaveled his shoe at the united nations general assembly ’s desk in 1960 , should steer clear of the topic of world leaders ’ manners . but there is a point to point about the chinese ’s recent behavior . when it comes to diplomatic offhandedness , the chinese have long had what british gamblers would call “ form . ” on a visit to the soviet union , mao zedong famously refused to use the flush toilet adjoining his room , and instead used the chamber pot that he brought from china . perhaps he suspected stalin that , as the bbc alleged last year , he was collecting and analyzing his feces to glean information about the great helmsman ’s temperament .
indeed , a potential heir today needs legitimacy , not only from powerful oligarchs but from the street as well . that is why so-called “ system liberals , ” or kremlin-backed loyalists want to control protest movements and use it as a lever in the ultimate struggle with the “ “ “ putin military and security apparatus ” ( putin ’s military and security apparatus ) . system liberals believe that russia has built an acceptable market economy on the whole . its further development requires only the removal of some of putin ’s cronies through controlled political reform . until recently , loyalists argued that the quest for change precludes criticizing a government that should somehow be influenced through constructive suggestions .
my office worked closely with the state to assure that juries are used in most cases . similarly , my office defended the liberal weekly newspaper novoe vremya ( new times ) , which was being pressured by moscow ’s city government on the pretext of a commercial lease dispute . that fight is not over , but after my intervention , moscow ’s authorities must take into account the public ’s negative attitude toward their efforts to quash this publication . of course , russia provides far more headline-grabbling examples of political and human rights problems , such as the low-grade war in chechnya or the yukos affair . my office pays maximum attention to chechnya , though this is not easy to do from moscow .
new delhi – international debate about china ’s rise has centered on its increasing trade muscle , growing maritime ambitions , and expanding capacity to project military power . one critical issue , however , usually escapes attention : china ’s rise as a hydro-hegemon with no modern historical parallel . no other country has ever managed to assume such unchallenged riparian preeminence on the continent by controlling the headwaters of multiple international rivers and manipulating their cross-border flows . china , the world ’s largest dam builder – with slightly more than half of the planet ’s 50,000 large dams – is rapidly accumulating leverage against its neighbors by undertaking massive hydro-engineering projects on transnational rivers . asia ’s water map fundamentally changed after the 1949 communist victory of china .
they pose continued risks to economic stability without offering compensating benefits in terms of increased investment in productive activities . as stanford ’s anat admati and others have long argued , banks require , at least at least , higher capital requirements , and tighter regulatory scrutiny . the fact that financial institutions escaped relatively unscathed from the 2008-2009 crisis speaks volumes of their political power . as the failures of financial regulation suggest , important as such economic reforms are , they need to be complemented with measures that redress the asymmetry of political access . in the us , holding workdays elections , rather than weekends or holidays – together with restrictive registration rules , gerrymandering , and myriad other electoral rules – places ordinary workers at a significant disadvantage .
for israel , an occupying power whose people enjoy democratic civilian authority and gdp tens of times that of the people it denies basic rights to freedom and independence , photo opportunities provided by a meeting , and greeting palestinian leaders replaced the peace process . a serious look back at the 17 years since yassir arafat and yitzhak rabin shook hands on the white house lawn is revealing . the number of illegal jewish settlements and settlers has more than doubled in the areas israel occupied in 1967 . negotiators parsed every possible solution to the permanent-status issues of jerusalem , borders , settlements , refugees , and economic relations . leaders of the world ’s superpowers , united nations officials , elders , and tens of goodwill have offered their goodwill offices and their services to bring about peace .
in other words , the export miracle was sparked not by state-sponsored chinese companies but by offshore efficiency solutions crafted in the west . this led to the economic equivalent of a personal identity crisis : who is china – them or the us ? in personal relationships , denial tends to mask imbalances – but only for so long . ultimately , denial cracks and imbalances give rise to frictions and blame – holding a codependent partner responsible for one ’s own making problems . such is the case with the us and china .
as lamy put it , nearly 80 % of curry favor is ready ; we need only additional spices from the major players – india , the european union , the us , brazil , and china . these can be provided politically palatable ways , which also means that the doha conclusion is within our reach , not beyond our grasp . but why bother to continue trying ? if doha fails , some say , life will go on . that is true , of course , but that does not make this view any less naïve .
the eu has also suddenly awakened to the need for a common external energy-security policy , not least to diversify away from russian supplies . given that 20 % of russian gas destined for europe passes through belarus , a stable and structured relationship with its government has become a priority . in turn , lukashenko has decided for economic reasons that his country needs eu support , and can no longer depend exclusively on russia without paying a heavy political price . but a thaw in eu-belarus relations needs reciprocal , permanent steps . after all , no eu strategic partnership is unconditional .
paris – the world is witnessing a drastic decline in its natural capital . plant and animal species are vanishing at an unprecedented pace – 100 to 1,000 times the rate of natural extinction . the planet ’s most endangered ecosystems are located in developing countries , and thus depend on some of the neediest communities in the world for conservation . conversely , the poor are the first to suffer from the deterioration of their natural environment . but in the developing world , immediate economic needs often override long-term imperatives , and protecting a fragile environment rarely take a national priority .
africa has an exceptionally rich clean-energy asset portfolio , including nearly nine terawatts of solar capacity , more than 350 gigawatts of hydropower capacity , and more than 100 gw of wind-power potential . this is more than enough to meet the continent ’s future demand . at the same time , renewable-energy sources are becoming less expensive , making them increasingly competitive with fossil-fuel alternatives . for example , the price of the “ “ monetarist solar energy ” in africa fell by 50 % between 2010 and 2014 , and continues to decline today . and south africa ’s renewable-energy independent producer procurement program has seen a total decline in bid prices and oversubscription rates .
paris – immigration-related headlines have become staple in europe , whether the story is of an illegal malian immigrant scaling up paris building to rescue a toddler or the formation of a populist government in italy that aims to deport a half-million migrants . and yet , despite constant coverage of the issue – or , more likely , precisely because of it – the immigration policy debate remains beset by misconceptions and politicization . in the united kingdom , the brexit vote fueled partly false and distorted claims , such as unrestrained migration from the rest of europe , driving down wages . since the brexit vote , however , the anti-brexit camp has engaged in similar distortions , warning that once it left the european union , the uk will face skills shortages . but plenty of countries – such as australia , canada , and singapore – do just fine without agreements guaranteeing freedom of movement from other countries by issuing skills-matching visas .
that is not to suggest that we should scrap or revise gdp ; but we need to recognize its limitations . the problem with gdp is not that it is a poor measure of material well-being ( setting aside distributional issues ) , but that it is incomplete . it does not include increasing the scope of goods and services delivered at negative incremental cost , or the non-material side of individual well-being or social progress more generally . looking ahead , the same cost-structure dynamics promise to produce large increases in many areas of wellbeing . most medical professionals will soon have digital assistants to offer diagnoses ( especially for certain cancers , diabetic retinopathy , and other chronic illnesses ) , perform non-invasive surgeries , or find pertinent published research .
whereas psephological studies in the united states have demonstrated that the poor do not vote in significant numbers ( presidential-election turnout in harlem averaged 23 % before barack obama ’s two candidacies ) , the opposite is true in india . in india , it is the poor who take the time to line in the hot sun , believing that their votes will make a difference , whereas more privileged voters , knowing that their views and numbers will do little to influence the outcome , have been staying home . studies of indian elections consistently show that the poorest vote in numbers well above the national average , while the educated middle class turns out in numbers well below it . the significant changes in the social composition of india ’s politicians and bureaucrats since independence are indeed proof of democracy at work . but many lament that the country ’s poor performance in the political class in general offers less cause for celebration .
should we be watching the french presidential campaign with admiration or alarm ? or perhaps it is undeniably a great “ show ” with all the ingredients of the hollywood blockbuster , including a surprising plot twist : the emergence of a “ third man , ” françois bayrou . even if his victory remains unlikely , bayrou must now be taken seriously . first and foremost , he has found in ségolène royal and nicolas sarkozy two remarkable spokespersons for his candidacy .
but that may be changing in response to us president donald trump ’s escalating attacks on the rules-based trading system . japan recently agreed to negotiate preferential trade agreements with the united states , which could challenge one of the pillars of the multilateral trading system : the “ favored nation ” ( mfn ) obligation , which states that any concessions or privileges granted to one country in the trade agreement must be extended to all wto members . here , japan is acting again “ voluntarily , ” under intense pressure from the us . according to press reports , trump has presented japan with stark choices : open its ( very protected ) market to american agricultural exports , or face increased american tariffs on automobiles and other industrial goods . gaining access to japan ’s agricultural market would seem to render moot trump ’s “ national security ” concerns over imported toyotas and hondas – a justification that allows him to circumvent wto rules with his tariffs .
not unlike holland in the early 1980s , brazil ’s economy today faces the challenge of stimulating rapid employment growth amid fiscal constraints and high interest rates . while brazil ’s registered unemployment rate is not very high by regional standards , its rapidly growing labor force requires high rates of job creation . emulating the dutch experience with job creation provides the surest route to poverty alleviation in brazil . the idea is not that brazil should seek to implement the dutch social-economic model – countries are too different for that . but lula can and should follow kok ’s example , and use his trade union links , as well as his rapport with the working class , to achieve a social pact aimed at achieving sustained improvement in brazil ’s overall economic performance , and to realize its potential to become latin america ’s economic powerhouse .
consider emma gonzález , a previously unknown florida teenager who “ assembled ” two times more twitter followers than the national rifle association almost overnight . by following an eloquent survivor of the parkland massacre , 1.66 million twitter users signaled their support for stronger gun-control regulations , and their opposition to america ’s gun lobby . nonetheless , assembly in physical space fulfills functions for democracy that online activity , however permanent or passionate , simply can not . in 2011 , when then-us representative barney frank asked why occupy wall street protesters “ think that simply being in physical space does a lot , ” an appropriate response would have been : “ actually occupying public spaces can accomplish a great deal , depending on who occupiers are and how many they number . ” hence , civil-rights marchers in the us during the 1950s and 1960s often evoked the “ meaning of our numbers . ”
economic commentators are better at rationalizing past exchange-rate movements than at forecasting future trends . so , when it comes to explanations for the dollar ’s decline over the past year , we are confronted with an embarrassment of riches . the most popular explanation for the dollar ’s weakness is that trump , through incompetence or misdirection , has failed to deliver what he promised . there has been no across-the-board import tariff . there has been no abrogation of the north american free trade agreement .
some worried about the collapse of the household saving rate , of course , but few were overly concerned . in one of his recent articles , milton friedman wrote that savings today took the form of houses . to me , this view of things explains much better than the orthodox account why , for all money-pumping by central banks , commercial banks did not start lending again , and the economic recovery petered out . just as lenders did not force money on the public before the crisis , so now they can not force heavily indebted households to borrow , or businesses to seek credit to expand production when markets are flat or shrinking . in short , recovery can not be left to the fed , the european central bank , or the bank of england .
but there seem to be some fundamental rules of political survival that have been ignored in australia in recent years , spelling them out may help both the alp and others remember them . the first rule is to have philosophy – and stick to it . bob hawke and paul keating two decades ago did just that , essentially inventing the “ third way ” model that later became associated with tony blair and gordon brown in britain . its elements were clear : dry , free-market economics ( but in our case with low-paid workers benefiting enormously from “ social wage ” increases in medical care and retirement income ) ; compassionate social policies ; and liberal internationalist foreign policy . by contrast , the current alp government struggled until now to re-create anything as compelling .
this is the fifth piece of the comprehensive plan . finally , to absorb and integrate more than a million asylum-seekers and migrants annually , the eu needs to mobilize the private sector – ngos , church groups , and businesses – to act as sponsors . this will require not just sufficient funding , but also the capacity of the human and international community to match migrants and sponsors . the exodus from war-torn syria should never become a crisis . it has long been made easy to foresee , and eminently manageable by europe and the international community .
a corollary is that wealth drops as the value of fuel-inefficient homes , gluttonous cars , and the oil companies ’ share declines . the problem does not come from using the price tool . it would be the same in a planned economy : carbon efficiency would also require old , inefficient equipment to be discarded , and additional investment to make gdp less carbon-intensive . with recent estimates putting the required additional investment at some 2 % of gdp annually in 2040 , a correspondingly smaller share of output will be available for household consumption . moreover , the distributional effects of the green transition are unfortunately adverse .
but it also represents an opportunity to forge a new uk-eu partnership . and besides , things could have been much worse . owing to the withdrawal agreement that was concluded this past october , a destructive “ hard ” brexit has been averted . since the start of the brexit negotiations , we on the eu side – the 27 member states and the european parliament – have strayed neither from the bloc ’s core interests nor lost sight of the need for unity and solidarity . our priority was first and foremost to secure the rights of european citizens , including by finding a solution to the people of northern ireland and ireland , for whom the brexit negotiations were about peace and stability , not just trade and economics .
the israeli-palestinian conflict continues to be the diplomatic charade that it has for many years now . and nothing attenuated the tensions between israel and both syria and lebanon . history teaches that diplomacy all too often produces results only when backed by overwhelming power . such was the existentialist worldview of us president and nobel peace prize laureate theodore roosevelt , a prominent advocate of american expansionism : “ just war is , in the long run , far better for a man ’s soul than the most prosperous peace . ” a century later , another american president , barack obama , immersed in two hopeless wars in the middle east , received his nobel peace prize with an apology for “ just wars . ”
yet , today , as iran ’s influence grows and islamist terrorism continues to proliferate , palestine is saudi arabia ’s latest worries . so fundamental are the changes to the kingdom ’s strategic interests , which , despite being the custodian of islam ’s holiest sites , said nothing when us president donald trump recognized jerusalem as israel ’s “ eternal capital . ” other sunni gulf monarchies , like egypt , have gone further , engaging in security cooperation with israel . politics is also superseding religion within israel . prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s expansionist drive in the west bank is about political power , not judaism .
europe is abuzz with mergers not only to take advantage of europe ’s broader economic space , but also to confront tough competition in world markets . in sum , the old continent is hot . no one can say how deep the changes will go , nor how fast they shift europe into the fast lane . no day passes without major headlines of big mergers in europe ; germany is ablaze as its mammoth corporations perform mating rites . in france , big strategic plays are underway in banks and fashion ; italy is seeing its major players position on a european and world scale .
germany ’s binding fiscal rules set a positive example for other eurozone countries . but all eurozone governments need to demonstrate their own commitment to fiscal consolidation to restore confidence in markets – and of their own citizens . recent studies show that once a government debt burden reaches a threshold perceived to be unsustainable , more debt will only stunt , not stimulate , economic growth . greece ’s debt crisis was a clear warning that european policymakers must not allow public debt to pile up indefinitely . the eu was right to react decisively to ensure the stability of the euro by providing short-term assistance to greece and establishing the european financial stabilization mechanism .
not to be part of native russians , jews were assumed to belong to an international cabal , and hence to be inherently treacherous . but stalin did not invent this idea . in the 1930s , fascists and nazis denounced jews , as well as marxists and freemasons , as “ cosmopolitans ” or “ internationalists ” – people whose loyalty was suspect . it is the kind of vocabulary that emerges from nativist movements that are hostile to ethnic or religious minorities , or to the financial or intellectual elites who supposedly conspire to undermine the nation ’s true sons and daughters . to prewar fascists , the us was often viewed as the symbol of cosmopolitan decadence .
“ they should not come near shariah , either . it should be above the constitution , rather than an article for a referendum . ” but was the ansar al-shariah brigade really behind the attack on the american consulate ? the nature of libya ’s post-revolution armed islamist forces is by no means straightforward . salafi jihadism is not an organization , but an ideological trend based on the core belief that armed tactics of all kinds are the most effective – and , in some versions , the most legitimate – method of bringing about social and political change .
their hope surely dwindled further when they saw bulldozers arrive in preparing the ground for new settlements – not an uncommon occurrence . the number of israelis living in exclusively jewish settlements in the west bank tripled since the 1993 signing of the memorandum of understanding between the palestine liberation organization and israel . in any case , israel now seems to have dropped the charade . in london early this month , netanyahu refused three times to answer questions from the press about his support for a two-state solution . more recently , he said that his ultimate goal is for palestinians to have a palestinian “ state minus ” that is limited in size and sovereignty .
the euro ’s design flaw – an economic union motivated by politics but expressed in economics – has become manifest . structural changes to economies that experienced a sharp fall in interest rates when they joined the germany-dominated currency bloc now must be quickly crafted , in crisis , and without the luxury of devaluation . the pain that this policy is causing has been exposed in protests across the continent , and in the bitter impact of many struggling families , young and elderly . the pro-europe foundation was partly the promise of ever greater prosperity . at present , that promise is severely in question .
the problem after all is not in east germany , but rather in the west . unification meant that everyone is not only the benefits of west german economic institutions – property rights and hard money – but also all disastrously negative institutions : unions , overpaying unemployment , and excessive job security , pervasive regulation . if west germany , faced with unification , rolled back all of these unaffordable limitations to free play in markets , the economic costs would have been far lower : east and west germany would have had more near-full employment , the productivity drive would have been far more aggressive . to be sure , german corporatism did not allow such a solution : unions wanted their wages to protect . the only way to secure them was for the government to pay lots of unemployment compensation in the high wage east germany .
amman – recently , israel ’s vice prime minister , shaul mofaz , offered an unequivocal veto on a key issue in the middle east peace process . any return of the golan heights to syria would result in an “ iranian foothold ” on israel ’s border , and thus not only be politically naïve but irrational . mofaz ’s statement is symptomatic of a perception that is now deeply rooted , not only in the middle east , but also in the united states . that notion is of a hegemonic iran that is attempting to dominate the region through an array of shiite proxies . this iranian fifth column is believed to stretch from beirut via damascus , gaza to baghdad , and finally from iran to saudi-arabia to yemen . recent armed clashes between hezbollah and the lebanese government are said to be just another sign of iran ’s hegemonic reach .
stanford – successful political candidates try to implement the proposals on which they ran . in the united states , president barack obama and the democrats , control the house of representatives , and ( filibuster-proof ) senate , had the power to do virtually anything they wanted in 2009 – and so did . obama and his congressional allies enacted a $ 800 billion “ stimulus ” bill that was loaded with programs geared toward key democratic constituencies , such as environmentalists and public employees ; adopted sweeping and highly unpopular health-care reform ( whose constitutionality will be determined by the supreme court this year ) ; imposed vast new regulations on wide swaths of the economy ; embraced an industrial policy that selects certain companies for special treatment ; engaged in borrowing and spending at levels exceeded only in world war ii ; and centralized power in washington , dc ( and , within the federal government , executive branch , and regulatory agencies ) . the last election , followed by such sweeping policy direction , occurred in 1980 , when president ronald reagan overhauled taxes , spending , and regulation ; and
all sides agree that the stability of the international economy is predicated on a system of global rules . what is disputed is the nature of these rules . opponents of trade liberalization decry secretiveness and the “ non-democratic ” nature of the wto , and the influence of corporate interests in rule-making . they see a trading system that privileges business over labor , the environment , and consumer safety . developing countries complain about restrictive rules applied to their exports ( garments , agricultural products , labor services ) , and fear that new demands that they face over labor and the environment undermine their competitiveness .
but , having fought for freedom from apartheid south africa , geingob says , namibia must defend the freedoms it won . besides , geingob recognizes how transparency protects it from demands for favors from corporate and other interest groups . not all namibia ’s key resources are finite . some – like fisheries – are renewable . most important , unlike most other resource-dependent economies , it has succeeded in diversifying the economy – to the point that services account for more than 60 % of its gdp , with tourism leading the way .
gordon ’s vulnerability is his shortened time horizon for ir # 3 . consider the following four sentences in his paper : · “ both the first two revolutions required about 100 years for their full effects to perstate through the economy . ” · “ at a minimum , it took 150 years for ir # 1 to have its full range of effects . ” · “ the inventions of ir # 2 were so important … that they took a full 100 years to have their main effect . ”
given all this , the most critical policy question in emerging markets today is how to respond to inflows , which will inevitably drive up their exchange rates and threaten export-led growth . the first option is to do nothing , and to allow the currency to appreciate . this may be the right response if the inflows and upward exchange-rate pressures are driven by fundamental factors ( the current-account surplus , an undervalued currency , a large and persistent growth differential ) . but , in many cases , inflows are driven by short-term factors , fads , and irrational exuberance , which can lead to an overvalued currency , crowding out non-traditional export sectors or import-competing sectors , loss of competitiveness , and eventually large current-account deficits and thus tighter external constraints on growth . this problem is exacerbated by the fact that the world ’s largest exporter , china , is aggressively intervening to minimize any appreciation of the renminbi .
plunging debt-service costs largely outgrowth the fed ’s unprecedented zero-interest-rate policy . as long as the stock of debt remains excessive , consumers dismiss the reduction in interest expenditures as nothing more than a temporary fed subsidy . moreover , the decline in the unemployment rate largely reflects persistently grim labor-market conditions , which discouraged many workers from remaining in the labor force . if the labor-force participation rate were 66 % , as it did in early 2008 , rather than 62.8 % , as it did in december 2013 , the unemployment rate would be just over 11 % , rather than 6.7 % . yes , there has been some progress on the road to recovery .
but while she likes to raise her voice , she acts with caution : today ’s german fiscal adjustment is , in reality , very gradual . the countries facing the fiercest budget battles are the eu , the united kingdom , and the us , where fiscal deficits exceeded 10 % of gdp in 2010 . in london , prime minister david cameron is on the offensive . on assuming office , he has entrusted budget forecasting to a new , independent office for budget responsibility ( obr ) , thereby forfeiting any sleight-of-hand opportunity . he then announced a bold consolidation program to cut the cyclically adjusted deficit by 1.5 % of gdp per year , thereby targeting a deficit of 3.5 % of gdp in 2013 .
indeed , demilitarization of sinai is one of the fundamental elements of egypt ’s peace with israel . other great and independent countries , such as japan , germany , and austria , have been subjected to decades of constraints on their acquisition of certain weapons and military equipment . similarly , the refusal of palestinian refugees ’ claims to the right of return to israel is understandable , logical , and just . what sense would it make to bring back millions of palestinians into a state whose character and symbols are foreign to them – a state where the majority belongs to another ethnic group ? are they to return to homes and farms that no longer exist ?
in austria , voters will choose between le pen ’s populist mold – and the anti-eu candidate in le pen ’s nationalist mold , norbert hofer of the austrian freedom party ( fpö ) . a victory for hofer could add wind to le pen ’s sails . the constitutional changes that renzi ’s yes campaign is asking voters to approve would undo some of his predecessor , silvio berlusconi ’s legacy – a legacy that serves as prime example of damaging right-wing populism can do to a country . among other things , berlusconi has altered italy ’s political system in such a way as preventing the left from ever regaining full power again , and blocking any criminal charges leveled against him . renzi ’s proposed reforms , among other things , would modernize the political system by disempowering the senate ( the upper house of parliament ) .
still , it is important to remember that there is a positive aspect to party self-confidence . as political scientist kevin o’brien has argued , china ’s increased readiness to compromise with some domestic protesters , rather than treat all forms of collective action as subversive , can be viewed as reflecting a growing sense of security . conversely , some of china ’s most troubling moves can chalked up to exaggerated feelings of insecurity . consider the harsh treatment of gadfly critic liu xiaobao , who was sentenced to 11 years in prison on trumped-up charges of “ subversion ” for launching an internet petition championing civil liberties . would a truly self-confident ruling elite have been so skittish about its activism ?
but discussions about competition and fair trade are once again demonstrating the intellectual poverty and inequity of trade negotiations . anti-dumping laws are intended to ensure fair trade by preventing sales of goods below cost . within the developed world , there has long been concerns about such behavior – so-called “ predation ” – and well-defined standards have been developed . with globalization , it would be natural to extend such principles to the international arena , making it irrelevant whether a producer is domestic or foreign when judging whether he is engaged in unfair trade practice . but it makes a difference whether good is produced at home or abroad .
but start treaty ratification is nowhere fast in the american senate and progress on other key issues has been slow or shaky : bringing the comprehensive test ban treaty into force ; starting negotiations on a new treaty to ban the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons ; strengthening the non-proliferation regime with effective measures to detect violations and deter treaty walk-outs ; reaching agreement on some form of international management of the most sensitive aspects of the fuel cycle ; and , most important , launching new rounds of serious disarmament talks involving not just the two nuclear-armed superpowers , but all eight nuclear-armed states . arms control and disarmament are grinding , unglamorous business that brings few quick returns . with domestic issues and re-election anxieties now dominating most political agendas , it will be all too easy to make commitment to wane . if it is to avoid , continued leadership from the summit – above all , from obama and russian president dmitri medvedev – will be indispensable . but there are a number of major contributions that less powerful states and leaders , as well as civil-society organizations , can make
“ that was the investigation , ” he replied . the military had investigated the military . this “ manifest suicide ” seemed immediately suspicious . i had just toured those cells : it is literally impossible to kill yourself . their interiors resemble the inside of smooth plastic jar ; hard edges are not taken ; hooks fold down ; there is no bedding that one can use to strangle oneself .
in south africa , for example , unodc has established three centers ( in mapumalanga , east cape , and north cape ) that offer legal counsel and medical care to women , and that work with men to help break the cycle of domestic violence . moreover , because more needs to be done to improve the world ’s understanding of gender-based violence , unodc is working with the international community to develop a more detailed and accurate picture of the problem . this includes examining the causes of male-on-female violence and assessing associated risk factors , such as the prevalence of drug and alcohol use . but gathering information is just one step toward closing loopholes in criminal laws and overcoming gaps in prevention policies . decisive policy action , supported by more rigorous enforcement of relevant laws , is needed to improve reporting and prosecution rates , which remain low in many countries .
the main driver of higher ex post real returns is the comparatively high coupon of these sovereign bonds . beyond the return history itself , there is the fact that emerging and developing economies now account for roughly two-thirds of global gdp , compared to just one-third 50 years ago , when portfolio diversification was almost entirely domestic . adding to the attractiveness of emerging-market sovereign securities portfolios , its returns are not perfectly correlated with equity returns . moreover , there is evidence that creditor rights and enforcement powers in external sovereign-debt markets have increased in the wake of america ’s recent court of judgements . these findings are not an invitation to embrace indiscriminate risk-taking .
but higher home prices rise , the further falling – and the greater the collateral economic and financial damage – when the bubble deflates . in countries where non-recourse loans allow borrowers to walk away from their mortgages when their value exceeds that of their home , the housing bust may lead to massive defaults and banking crises . in countries ( sweden , for example ) , where recourse loans allow seizure of household income to enforce payment of mortgage obligations , private consumption may plummet as debt-service payments ( and eventually rising interest rates ) crowd out discretionary spending . either way , the result would be the same : recession and stagnation . what we are witnessing in many countries looks like a slow-replay of the last housing-market train wreck .
but the arab world is divided about how to deal with the sudden rise of iranian power . tensions are particularly acute in saudi arabia , which has warned the us about the dangers of a possible collapse in iraq , and now finds itself in unequal face-off with iran . some in the kingdom argue that saudi arabia must confront iran , stand up for sunni arab interests , and become hands-on regional power . other saudis believe that confrontation will only lead to wider wars and urge dialogue and accommodation . in this view , the us , not iran , has produced the region ’s current problems .
beijing – us president donald trump and chinese president xi jinping may have agreed at the g20 summit in osaka to resume trade negotiations , but the path to ending the trade war remains far from clear . after all , the two leaders reached a similar agreement at the previous g20 summit – in buenos aires last december – and those talks ultimately failed , not least because trump mistook china ’s conciliatory attitude toward weakness . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
when asked to choose between the risk of being known to posterity as a central banker who let the system collapse and intangible future benefits teaching risk takers a lesson , it does not take genius to predict the central banker ’s decision . democracy tends to institutionalize moral hazard in sectors that are economically or politically important , such as finance or real estate , allowing them to privatize gains and socialize losses . even as the authorities insist that the next time will be different , everyone knows that they will make the same decisions when confronted with the same choice again . so , knowing that the next time will not be different , the authorities try their best to prevent a “ next time . ” but risk takers have every incentive to try their luck again , knowing that at worst they will be bailed out .
among the large continental countries , including india and brazil , only china has a small coastline segment but vast interior regions . when the main object of human consumption was food , this was not a problem , because what mattered was land and water . but in modern industrial , urban , and market-based societies , what may matter increasingly is transport costs , which means that geography can cause deep regional inequalities . though such disparities can of course have other causes as well , geography does seem to explain a lot . first , it explains why china ’s coastal regions developed earlier and faster after the country launched its market-oriented reforms and opened up to the world .
the idea that some version of soros ’s plan would have accelerated growth is speculative at best . most of the benefit of reducing mortgage flows to consumers only over time . as a result , careful calculations about the impact of mortgage reductions on aggregate demand ( which the us and which johnson and soros did not ) do not bear their claims : the extra spending per dollar of relief was probably less than a dime on the dollar expended . this leaves aside the additional lesson , gained from experience that institutions with large amounts of public capital tend to be very passive about increasing lending . fifth , in the political environment that prevailed in 2009 , it would have been difficult or impossible to get more money for the troubled asset relief program .
because many contracts are “ sticky ” ( that is , not easily revised ) in monetary terms , inflation and deflation would both inflict damage on the economy . rising prices reduce the value of savings and pensions , while falling prices reduce profit expectations , encourage hoarding , and increase the real burden of debt . keynes ’s dictum became the ruling wisdom of monetary policy ( one of his few to survive ) . governments , conventional wisdom suggests , should aim for stable prices , with a modest bias toward inflation to stimulate businessmen ’ “ animal spirits ” and shoppers . in the ten years prior to the 2008 financial crisis , independent central banks set the inflation target of around 2 % to provide price-stability economies .
margaret thatcher was always an opponent of the ideal of a politically integrated europe . british hostility to this objective became increasingly fierce , as john major lost his tory majority in parliament and fell under the power of anti-europeans in his own party . today , the british appear an insuperable obstacle to attainment by the others of a more integrated eu . in law , the british can prevent unwelcome developments in the eu , because the union is based on the treaty ; the british therefore have an effective veto over any treaty change . in practice , the british have already lost that power because they demanded and got , the right to opt out of participating in emu .
princeton – democracy everywhere faces serious challenges . the united states is gripped by its most bizarre presidential primary ’s campaign in living memory , with populist outsiders threatening to topple established party machinery . brazil is paralyzed by a constitutional crisis , and it is the united states that is now facing a threat to the eu . europeans trace their malaise to democratic deficits . and , in the united kingdom , the vision of a recovering national sovereignty is fueling the campaign to leave the eu .
to avoid exciting markets , it would have to be voluntary . persuading bondholders to agree would be challenging – even more so , given recent court rulings in the united states that strengthen holdout investors ’ hand . but there is no superior alternative . ukraine would be an ideal candidate for re-profiling . given uncertainty about the country ’s near-term prospects , both a mega-bailout and a full-fledged debt restructuring would be overkill .
in times of shortage , it is the refugees who are likely to be among the first to feel the effects . water supplies in many refugee camps , in both jordan and lebanon , have been cut to the minimum – a decision that affects millions of people who are already enduring scorching temperatures . at rukban , the jordan refugee camp ’s joint border with syria and iraq , more than 85,500 residents each receive barely five liters per day for cooking , drinking , and washing . the situation in yemen is similarly grim . racked by sectarian violence and civil war , the country has no functioning government to manage water resources .
first , the volume of jgbs has soared relative to japanese household assets . japanese households hold about ¥ 1,100 trillion in net monetary assets , an amount that will surpass japan in about 3-5 years by the value of jgbs . at that point , government debt will no longer be backed up by taxpayer assets . and , reflecting the aging of japanese society , the household saving rate itself will decline dramatically , making it difficult for the private sector to finance annual budget deficits . at the same time , japan ’s demographic trends will boost demand for fiscal expenditure , as pension and health-care costs rise .
much has been done recently in yugoslavia , a surprising one . after some procrastination and initial failed efforts , milosevic was arrested , without bloodshed , if not without danger . the peaceful vote in montenegro last weekend may presage conflict and difficult decisions about independence , but the chances are strong that the parties will settle these matters by talking rather than fighting . these are great steps forward , and they show that , despite brainwashing and complicity in many serbs in milosevic 's regime 's crimes , democracy and open society have a chance to take root in what remains of yugoslavia . one key decision facing serbia and its new institutions is whether milosevic should be extradited to the hague .
as political pressure on central banks , including the ecb , increases , its president must not hesitate to criticize european politicians , and , if necessary , publicly name and shame . the ecb ’s independence is its most valuable asset – indeed , it is indispensible . a good central banker must say no to politicians . this does not mean that the ecb president should pick fights whenever possible . on the contrary , he should be able to build support for the ecb ’s independence .
greece could , in principle , count on a large volume of regional development aid from the european union budget , underutilized , owing to a lack of local co-financing . it took until last summer to recognize – and even then only to a modest degree – that this aid could be used to support economic recovery . europe ’s final mistake was a certain level of indifference to equitable burden-sharing . it is understandable that the imf , a technocratic institution , does not venture beyond macroeconomics . but the eu is a political entity that has made social justice one of its fundamental goals .
brussels – the consequences of the european debt crisis are all too present throughout much of the european union , as distressed economies attempt to stabilize and grow simultaneously . notwithstanding the important decisions taken over the past few years , the reality is that we need to do more to meet the challenges facing the eurozone . reform and consolidation measures are being implemented across the eu . joint financial backstops have been put on hold . and the european central bank has consistently shown that it will stand by the euro .
but the rise of interactive social networking has made more bottom-up financial innovation . millions of bank customers using mobile phones can provide instant feedback on which products and services they like or dislike . in the future , client-service and transaction-management systems will receive more input from customers more frequently , so that product design is interactively shaped . the current strategy in the financial sector drives excessive competition by increasing market share at rivals ’ expense , often breaking trust with customers for the sake of short-term gains . yet the financial sector has , in previous eras , proven that it can operate as a public good by providing trustworthy , efficient services .
so unraveling multi-national states is a false path . the way forward lies in democratic forms of federalism , which can preserve sufficient central authority for statehood , while respecting local and regional cultures . today ’s upsurge of micro-nationalism is not just the consequence of the revolt against empires : it is also a revolt against globalization . there is widespread opposition to the idea that modern states ’ chief function is to slot their peoples into a global market dominated by the efficiency imperatives and cheapness , heedless damage to non-economic activities . this sentiment is reinforced when the global economy turns out to be a global casino .
still , it is right to ask whether the american way of life will survive the twenty-first century , and if it does , whether it will survive in america or migrate elsewhere as america ’s economy and political system collapses under the accumulated weight of decades of myopic national leadership and squandered opportunities . indeed , chinese president hu jintao ’s recent trip to washington was seen by many – particularly many chinese – as passing the torch . pessimists have been saying this for a long time . optimists touting gdp and other indicators will continue to insist that americans have never had it so good . if there is any continuity worth underscoring , it is the regular cohabitation of boosterism with declinism : america ’s glass is always at least half full and half-empty .
but even as those uncertainties play out , both countries are engaging in a kind of zero-sum transfer of emotions that is impossible to ignore . in the past , traveling to london from paris , one could easily sense the difference between the two cities . london was bursting with dynamism , and proud to assert itself as the world ’s capital of multiculturalism . paris , though undeniably fairer , was in danger of becoming a new rome , a prisoner of its past glory , at best a place to visit , but not a place to be . today , confidence was sucked out of britain by social and political upheaval , terrorism , and uncertainty about the future of the country .
these speculative investments can further reinforce the trend , pushing futures prices further away from market equilibrium , especially if many investors follow suit or those who invest sufficient funds to influence the market . index funds are an example of such powerful investors . they have become key market players , holding about 25-35 % of all agricultural futures contracts . besides investing large amounts of money , they are holding futures contracts for a long time , which might make them less likely to react to changes in market fundamentals . empirical evidence yields no clear answer about which hypothesis is correct .
never before have partisan politics been heavily engaged , but these are not normal times . president george w. bush is endangering the united states and global security , while undermining american values . for opposing him , i have demonized bush . president bush ran on a platform promising a “ humble ” foreign policy in 2000 . if re-elected , bush ’s doctrine of preemptive action – and the invasion of iraq – will be endorsed , and the world will have to live with consequences .
the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s ravaged not only millions of people , but also the social institutions that gave shape to their lives . indeed , the changes brought about by yugoslavia ’s dissolution and the wars of succession that followed annihilated large parts of serbia ’s traditional education and training systems , croatia , bosnia , macedonia , and kosovo . since then , stability and hope have begun to return to a region affected by the destruction of war and widespread despair of social displacement . the balkan stability pact of 1999 and the massive international support pact have helped to rebuild local education , while developing innovative vocational training and training systems that should boost long-term employment . the results of many projects in these countries are encouraging , with the current focus on training key groups such as entrepreneurs , teachers , and youth and unemployed .
thus , two important steps have been taken : one by iran ’s people , who have shown that they understand the challenges they face , and the other by their new president , who assembled the best team at their disposal to undertake an enormously difficult program . there is an expression in iran that applies to the international community : “ you can wake only someone who is sleeping , not someone pretending to be asleep . ” whether iran ’s international interlocutors act on the significance of rouhani ’s election is a matter of choice , not ignorance . in the middle east , so full of uncertainty , a more predictable iran – one that behaves like a regionally important state , not a destabilizing shia movement whose ambitions go beyond what international law permits – would be in everyone ’s interest . there can be no path from the middle east ’s agony without participation , commitment , and determination by all parties .
nairobi – with unemployment soaring , bankruptcies climbing , and stock markets in free-fall , it may at first glance seem sensible to ditch the fight against climate change and put environmental investment on hold . but this would be a devastating mistake of immediate , as would inter-generational , proportions . far from burdening an already over-stressed , over-stretched global economy , environmental investment is exactly what is needed to get people back to work , get order books flowing , and help in powering economies back to health . in the past , environmental concern was viewed as a luxury ; today , it is a necessity – a point that understood by some , but by no means all , economic architects . a big slice of president barack obama ’s $ 825 billion stimulus package for the united states includes a boost to renewable energy , a “ weatherizing ” one million homes , and upgrading the country ’s inefficient electricity grid .
we might perhaps all be happy to work fewer hours if the decline reflected gradual social progress . but we are not happy with unemployment , which results from a sudden fiscal crisis . that is why sudden austerity can not be a morale builder . for morale , we need a social compact that finds purpose for all , a way to show oneself to be part of society by being a worker of some sort . and for that to be sure , we need fiscal stimulus – ideally , the debt-friendly stimulus that raises taxes and expenditures equally .
that federal legislation , enacted in june 2016 , also established oversight boards with fiscal decision-making authority for american commonwealth . the restructuring process began on may 3 , when the board filed a petition in the federal court . but many crucial decisions have yet to be taken , such as how much overall debt relief will be provided , and how a “ haircut ” will be distributed among holders of different types of bonds . these decisions will determine which policies are feasible to boost puerto rico ’s economic prospects – and thus how much it can pay its creditors . at the heart of any effort to resolve the debt crisis must be the understanding that just as today ’s debt restructuring affects puerto rico ’s future growth , puerto rico ’s future growth affects how much debt restructuring is needed .
with goodwill on all sides , real advantages can materialize from building up this informal grouping , as it is gateway to southeast asia ’s huge markets and northeast asia . an economic bonus of such an effort for the entire region would come from opening up direct flights and maritime transport across the taiwan strait . ceagpol could even become a building block for a northeast asian version of asean – the “ association of northeast asian nations . ” owing to historical suspicion between china , japan , and korea , northeast asia ’s economic heavyweights are the world ’s last remaining regional bloc that still lacks the inter-governmental organization of asean likes . the european union is even more instructive , owing to centuries of war , culminating in the two world wars of the twentieth century , inspired rather than deterred , european economic , political , and security integration .
even in europe and the united states , lower-level officials typically earn far less than people with comparable skills and responsibilities in the private sector . in all nations , many government officials are highly dedicated and absolutely honest , but low pay attracts some rotten apples who are willing to raise their incomes by accepting bribes and engaging in other corrupt practices . even some honest officials may become disillusioned , giving up many temptations to use illicit means so that they raise their incomes to levels that they deem more appropriate to their responsibilities and training . many years ago , the late economist george stigler published an article proposing ways to reduce malfeasance among government employees . we suggested , among other things , that officials in vulnerable and important posts receive higher salaries than comparable workers get in the private sector .
london – russia ’s invasion of ukraine and annexation of crimea have jeopardized global security and dominated headlines . but the current rules-based international system , which has been decades in making , remains most seriously threatened by syria ’s civil war . not only are millions of lives in jeopardy ; the global framework of human rights and humanitarian law is on trial just as well . now these risks are being overshadowed by the crisis in ukraine , with confrontation in the united nations security council threatening to subordinate syria in the pecking order of international problems . last month , on the third anniversary of the eruption of protests in damascus and other syrian cities , people around the world mobilized in street vigils and online as part of the “ with syria ” campaign .
this is true for its financial parameters too . public and private contributions are combined in many ways . to be sure , there is an additional feature that many higher education institutions have an endowment that they can use to balance inequities . it will take some time to build up such endowments in europe and elsewhere . even so , the principle is surely right : universities must be set free .
but , rather than picking facts and stories to fit some grand narrative of decline or progress , we should try to compare across all areas of human existence to see whether the world is actually doing better or worse . together with 21 of the world ’s top economists , i have tried to do just that , developing a scorecard spanning 150 years . across ten areas – including health , education , war , gender , air pollution , climate change , and biodiversity – economists all answered the same question : what was the relative cost of this problem every year since 1900 , all the way to 2013 , with predictions to 2050 . using classic economic valuations of everything from lost lives , bad health , and illiteracy to wetlands destruction and increased hurricane damage from global warming , economists show how much each problem costs . to estimate the magnitude of the problem , it is compared to the total resources available to fix it .
clearly , investment in food production must be increased in the medium and longer term . but there is a policy prescription available to leaders today that could help remove supply-side bottlenecks : more trade . this proposal may puzzle some , but the logic is straightforward and irreversible . trade is the transmission belt through which supply adjusts to demand . it enables food to travel from land of plenty to little .
but the republicans ’ proposed tax reform is a bigger gift to corporations and the ultra-rich than most had anticipated . it avoids necessary reforms , and would leave the country with a mountain of debt ; the consequences – low investment , stalled productivity growth , and yawning inequality – would take decades to undo . trump assumed office promising to “ drain the swamp ” in washington , dc . instead , the swamp has grown wider and deeper . with the republicans ’ proposed tax reform , it risks engulf the american economy .
yet finance can fail in many ways ; lehman ’s collapse is only one . if this cycle is even around right , regulatory fatigue from battling to make finance safer will soon turn into the regulatory confidence that the last war has now prevailed . in a strong economy , finance will look stronger , and existing regulation will appear effective . it is common for people to update their views with what they have seen last ; if what they see last is a strong economy and a stable financial system , they will conclude that they have stabilized the system . the fed ’s 2008 transcripts reveal that its leaders saw such a world .
but , with the psychotic label already affixed to their files , whatever they were assumed to be a symptom of their insanity . at best , they would be declared “ in remission . ” rosenhan ’s experiment suggests that questions about trump ’s mental health might never go away , regardless of the steps he takes to change his detractors ’ minds . even if he stops ranting on twitter or speaking in convoluted and incoherent sentences , at best , he would be viewed as being “ in remission . ” modern psychiatrists would argue that they have taken to heart the lessons of the rosenhan experiment , and now make diagnoses far more cautiously and rigorously .
boston – the resurgence of nativism and xenophobia in countries around the world has created a toxic environment for those fleeing geopolitical crises . but among the many challenges refugees must confront , while await resettlement , finding access to high-quality physical and mental health care tops the list . it is a challenge that demands more attention not just from doctors , nurses , non-governmental organizations , and other relevant actors , but also from engineers , who can make indispensable contributions to global public health . those contributions are highly relevant to refugees . beyond building bridges and creating gadgets , engineers can help to improve the quality and affordability of health care worldwide , by developing faster methods for diagnosing diseases and delivering medical services .
over the past 30 years , the prevailing ip regime has erected more barriers to the use of knowledge , often creating a gap between social returns to innovation and private returns to widen . powerful advanced-economy lobbies that have shaped the regime clearly put the latter first , reflected their opposition to provisions recognizing intellectual property rights associated with traditional knowledge or biodiversity . widespread acceptance of today ’s stringent ip protection is also historically unprecedented . even among the early industrializers , ip protection came very late , and was often deliberately eschewed to enable faster industrialization and growth . the current ip regime is not sustainable .
during this era , the dollar appreciated strongly against major currencies , and by 1985 was overvalued by virtually every measure . throughout this period , the bundesbank sold dollars to curb the dollar ’s appreciation ( figure 1c ) , but the fed did not intervene at all ( figure 1b ) . despite the advent of the european central bank , this asymmetry continues : while the ecb has repeatedly tried to break the dollar ’s appreciation in 2000-2001 through consecutive interventions in the foreign exchange market , the fed intervened only once . this confirmed america ’s interest in maintaining a strong dollar . so long as these interests diverge , we should expect little coordination of foreign exchange policy among the two central banks .
in the upcoming g8 meetings ( the club of rich industrial countries plus russia ) , four members – germany , france , italy , and the uk – will participate individually , and as members of the european union , whose president also attends to represent the eu as a whole . but should the eu have only a single representative ? regardless of whether these meetings are productive , unitary eu participation would be of supreme symbolic value : it would affirm a common european stance in international relations and international economic policy . the main argument in favor of such a change is that joint participation by the eu would increase european weight in international relations , particularly against the us . after all , a key reason for first eu integration was precisely to provide a more powerful voice for europe in the international arena .
the idea behind a slippery slope is that if you do x , which is acceptable , you end up doing y , which is not . indeed , two types of slippery slopes – logical and sociological – exist . on the logical slippery slope , you slide to the bottom and embrace morally unacceptable , because there is no way to distinguish it from acceptable practice . you can slide down the sociological slippery slope from one practice to another – even if the two are conceptually different – just because the existence of one creates a social climate receptive to another . therapeutic cloning is conceptually distinct from reproductive cloning .
soon , devaluation in a nearby country reveals how vulnerable the economy is to losing international confidence . suddenly , foreign lenders curtail short-term credit lines . the central bank tries to hold the exchange rate , but eventually is forced to let the currency float . the result is a currency collapse and a wave of bankruptcies . the economy confronts its most severe economic crisis in many decades .
the world might not support the us in its unilateral attempts to become a world policeman , especially because they may well bring more instability . nevertheless , it is important to realize why the american enterprise is them , and to respond to the core problem of today ’s international order . if russia and other countries that opposed america ’s iraq policy in the security council really wanted to persuade the us not to attack iraq and defend international law , it was a naive policy doomed to failure . if the us sought to preserve the un security council and the position of its current permanent members , then those actions were more likely to produce the opposite effect . similarly , rearguard efforts to show that those who opposed war in iraq were right , and that the americans and britons wrong , together with the demands for “ proof ” that iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction , are unconstructive , and only provoke mutual irritation .
some 8,000 refugees per day – the modern day volkerwanderung – are entering germany , partly owing to harsh conditions back home , and partly because of germany ’s willingness to take them . the challenge of caring for , employing , and integrating such numbers will soon run up against the limits of physical capacity , financial resources , and public tolerance . it is obvious that public policy can not succeed if it is focused on the consequences rather than the causes , of the refugee crisis . the change that would have the greatest positive impact would be the emergence of a new government in damascus , which was acceptable to the bulk of the syrian people and a satisfactory partner for the united states and europe . unfortunately , this seems likely to come only with the blessing of russia and iran , both of which seem more inclined to increase their support for president bashar al-assad than to work for his removal .
israel has also joined nato ’s naval control system in the mediterranean , contributing to operation active endeavor by joining nato forces in patrolling the mediterranean . both sides seem eager to expand the scope of their partnership , with the goal of reaching a high degree of interoperability . recently , in anticipation of a hypothetical confrontation with iran , a major military maneuver – the us joint joint joint joint joint joint joint joint exercises – was conducted to test israel ’s integration into american ballistic missile defenses . american sources described drill as “ the most complete air-missile defense system that the us has ever done anywhere in the world . ” it was a major contribution , they said , to the development of a planned nato missile shield for europe .
how girls could be returned safely is difficult to see . launching a military rescue operation would be highly risky . girls , it is believed , have been split into separate groups , so that any attempt to rescue one group imperil the others . despite talk of a government negotiating an agreement with captors , this option would be fraught with danger . even if all girls eventually do come home , nothing will ever be the same again for them or their families .
the country played by the “ rules ” of financial markets , and managed to finalize restructuring quickly ; but the agreement was bad and did not help the economy recover . three years later , greece is in desperate need of a new restructuring . distressed debtors need fresh start , and the need for a new start is in the desperate need of a new debt restructuring . excessive sanctions lead to negative-sum games in which the debtor can not recover , and creditors do not benefit from the larger repayment capacity that recovery entails . the absence of the rule of law for debt restructuring delays fresh starts , and can lead to chaos .
we would expect to see a large number of illnesses among employees and patients in hospitals where victims are treated , and soon someone ( perhaps even an ill carrier ) would spread it to ankara , istanbul , tbilisi , damascus , baghdad , and beyond . anti-flu drugs tamiflu and relenza are extremely expensive and in short supply . history suggests that if we were to make these drugs available to poor countries for ring “ pre-laxis , ” they would often be administered improperly – such as in suboptimal doses – in a way that promotes viral resistance and only intensifies a pandemic . or perhaps they would be sold on the black market to enrich corrupt government officials . a politically incorrect but rational strategy would be for rich countries to devote resources to developing countries primarily to surveillance .
the best solution is to make western labor markets flexible by opening up the system of collective wage bargaining , dismantling labor-market regulation , and reforming the welfare state . if workfare replaces welfare , wages will become more flexible , enabling eu labor markets to absorb migrants more efficiently . but even with these measures , social benefits can artificially increase incentives for migrate . if immigrants gain welfare benefits in addition to wages , more will be lured into the coming than necessary , and marginal migrants would create welfare losses for the eu equal to the benefits . given that migrants typically enter countries that redistribute resources from above-average to below-average incomes , such benefits are likely even if migrants work and pay taxes and social security contributions .
palestinian president mahmoud abbas has made no secret of his objection to such a strategy . but , with their government unable to do anything about expanding israeli settlements , including in east jerusalem , as well as continuing conflicts over holy sites in hebron , bethlehem , and the al-aksa mosque , west bank palestinians are extremely frustrated . recent street demonstrations could easily turn into an outbreak of ongoing israeli resistance to israeli rule . the palestinian authority running the west bank is afraid that a popular , nonviolent intifada could quickly turn violent . if so , israel might use it as a pretext to crush the palestinians and their newly constructed institutions .
li must ensure that china ’s economy , which still boasts significant growth potential , does not sink into lethargy and fall into the so-called middle-income trap . ” a developing economy may slow prematurely when external factors change the conditions that support growth . wages continue to rise , declining competitiveness vis-à-vis low-income economies , but the growth model remains unequipped to support competitiveness in high-skill industries , leading to stagnation . to avoid such an outcome , li must adapt china ’s growth model to current conditions , which include intensifying trade friction with the european union and the united states , greater pressure to allow the renminbi to appreciate , an aging population , slowing urbanization , and rising labor costs . the “ new normal ” that emerged from the global financial crisis , characterized by sluggish gdp growth and diminished western import demand , makes reform even more urgent .
but , after nine years of conservative rule , moon will not simply swoop to his agenda . in fact , with his democratic party holding only 40 % of the national assembly ’s 299 seats , he will have to win support from centrist parties and even the conservative opposition . moreover , he will need broader public support . to succeed , moon will have to revisit carefully the effectiveness and feasibility of his campaign promises , identify the most promising measures , and avoid the most obvious pitfalls . when it comes to public-sector job creation , for example , the main problem to consider is the long-term financial burden that such large-scale hiring could create .
commercial television programs targeting children are replete with advertising for processed foods of dubious value to human health . and , for every celebrity donates time to fight obesity , a dozen who accept large payments to hawk products such as ultra-sugary drinks are arguably the tobacco of our generation . it is hard for non-profits to compete with the production values embodied in aboncé ’s pepsi commercial or taylor swift ’s diet coke commercial . the causes of obesity are complex , and the science of understanding human behavior is embryonic ; but it is not hyperbole to call the problem an epidemic . according to centers for disease control and prevention , roughly 18 % of children aged 6-11 in the us are not just overweight , but obese .
but today america is on the back foot , economically and militarily . new powers like china and india are rising , not rising , mixing assertiveness with an emphasis on their continued “ development ” status . europe , where shared sovereignty has been embraced , is struggling to solve its own problems , never mind becoming a global player . so no one is in charge . this is all the more problematic at a time when nation-states and peoples are more intertwined than ever , as ideas , information , finance , migrants , and problems flow ever more seamlessly across borders .
and per capita gdp surely must be preferable to aggregate gdp . no doubt , recovery in the uk began more slowly than in other g7 economies , except italy . but there is also no doubt that the uk ’s recovery picked up the pace after 2012 . last year , its growth rate was the highest in the g-7 . according to the imf , only the american economy will grow faster over the next four years , with the uk then regaining the lead .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . in 1802 , america ’s third president , thomas jefferson , wrote that “ religion is a matter that lies solely between man and his god . ” offering assurances to a group of connecticut christtists who feared for their religious liberty , he pointed out that the first amendment ’s establishment clause and free exercise clause built “ a wall of separation between church & state . ”
i personally talked with more than 50 foreign leaders , and all agree that only by coordinating our actions can we halt the devastation in west africa and halt ebola ’s spread . we are making progress on both issues , but much work remains . bringing together countries with competing interests and varying resources is hard work . it demands intense diplomatic engagement and calls upon relationships that have been built and maintained over decades , as well as alliances with new partners . but by overcoming the differences and coordinating efforts to defeat the islamic state and conquer ebola , we are reinforcing support for a world order grounded in collective solutions to shared problems .
consider the example of the american corporate subsidiary that earns profits in ireland . that subsidiary pays the irish corporate tax at ireland ’s low 12 % rate . it is then free to reinvest after-tax profits in ireland , in financial securities , or operating firms anywhere in the world – except in the us . if a foreign subsidiary ’s parent company brings after-tax profits back to the american investment or distribute to its shareholders , it must pay the current american corporate tax rate of 35 % on its original pretax irish earnings , with credits for the 12 % that it has already paid . because of this 23 % penalty on repatriation , american companies generally choose not to repatriate their foreign subsidiaries ’ profits .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
the problem does not observe national borders , and thus requires collective global action . but the shift to a carbon-neutral economy also offers far-reaching opportunities . with the right strategy in place , europe can boost its own technological innovation and deploy carbon pricing and other fiscal policies to protect european labor markets from being undercut by lower-cost production in china and elsewhere . moreover , through the european investment bank , the eu already has a tool to mobilize massive capital stores for infrastructure investment , research , and development , as well as other essential areas . and , as adam tooze has argued , by issuing green bonds and other “ safe assets , ” europe can secure greater economic autonomy from other powers and start establishing the euro as a global currency .
partly in response to the soviet collapse , india embraced free-market capitalism , which produced spectacular economic progress . and , like the economy , india ’s self-confidence boomed . india today sees the wider world , particularly the west , in terms of growing respect , not only for the country ’s performance , but also for its essence – a young country and that is also an ancient civilization . a little more than 60 years ago , india remained the crown jewel of the british empire . fifty years ago , if you sought to read about india in the west , you would mostly find books about spirituality .
a careful analysis of merkel ’s words shows that she was not questioning the future of the transatlantic alliance . rather , she was calling for a stronger europe . merkel knows that if the us sacrifices its place at the top of the international order for domestic political reasons , it will not be replaced by a new leading power , nor will a new world order emerge . what we will have is a power vacuum marked by chaos . and , as the world becomes less stable , we europeans will have no choice but to come together to defend our interests .
the bottom line is that questions like this are “ we creating too much inequality ? ” can not even be asked in china . the upshot is that whenever the problem gets out of hand , the turnaround comes too late and is dramatic . this is why china can not shelve the problem of its transition to democracy . democracy is not just a mechanism to help prevent strategic mistakes . there is a more mundane reason why many , even within the party , think that a democratic transition has become inevitable : the party is simply losing control of the country .
indeed , a number of interesting practical moves in this direction are underway , though not all of them pursue the original regional course set by their founders . the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) , for example , has unexpectedly demonstrated both the will and the capacity to raise the fighting force to intervene in regional conflicts , such as the horrific civil war in sierra leone . less spectacularly , but perhaps more important in the long run , ecowas is laying the groundwork for regional economic integration , with the creation of a single currency now a stated objective . in south africa , the south african development community , after shaky start , is pushing ahead with joint projects , of which transport infrastructure , blight on much intra-african commerce , is a central theme . east african countries are also pushing ahead for integration projects , and appear to have learned from past failures in the region , which were the result of hastily constructed , inappropriate , and overly ambitious structures .
so where is this demand-driven growth ? the european central bank ( ecb ) seems more interested in keeping interest rates high enough to force insolvent firms into bankruptcy than in promoting higher employment . with private-sector demand stalling , the employment commission wants the government to serve as the employer of last resort . but the maastricht treaty ’s stability and growth pact limits fiscal deficits to 3 % of gdp – a ceiling that germany is already hitting . unless a future government is bold enough to break the pact with abandon , its only alternative will be to raise taxes , which would merely prolong the very downturn in private-sector demand that has kept unemployment high .
new york – in his remarkable apology to catholics in ireland ( most of that country ’s population ) , pope benedict xvi explained why he thought that sinful priests were tempted to commit sexual acts with children . it was because of “ new and serious challenges to the faith that arose from the rapid transformation and secularization of irish society . fast-paced social change has occurred , often adversely affecting people ’s traditional adherence to catholic teaching and values . ” as we know , the abuse of children by catholic priests did not just occur in ireland , but in many other countries too , something that the pope preferred not to dwell on . and ireland is not the only place where social transformation and secularization challenged religious values .
last august , israelis authorized an additional seven battalions and 20 tanks in the zone . but egyptian armed forces never brought in full numbers of additional troops , and even bothered to transport tanks across the suez canal . egypt ’s approach toward sinai troop deployments reflects its traditional neglect of the peninsula . historically , it deployed only 70-80 % of the 22,000 soldiers that the treaty allows in zone a. and the military never established a regional command in sinai , preferring to allow units temporarily stationed there to report to their superiors scattered around cairo and its environs . egypt ’s new islamist leaders may want to restore “ full sovereignty ” over the peninsula , as president mohamed morsi ’s legal adviser , mohamed fouad gadalla , recently noted . such saber-rattling comments vis-à-vis israel are currently popular in the country .
their home page shows a smiling young manager , based in chile , and society is pushing to enlist women in palestinian territories – not ideological reasons , but because there are so many talented programmers there to hire . “ thirty percent of women in many middle eastern countries have university degrees , ” zaleski explains , but often they can not get jobs commensurate with their training for cultural reasons . with powertofly ’s technological ability to transcend cultural barriers , a woman can contribute at the highest levels to an american company – even if local laws prohibit her from driving a car . not surprisingly , given such a model , many men want to participate just as well . founders do not rule out eventually expanding to address this need .
so here are ten good reasons to believe in europe – ten rational arguments to persuade pessimistic analysts , and worried investors alike that it is highly premature to bury the euro and the eu altogether . the first reason for hope is that statesmanship is returning to europe , even if in homeopathic doses . it is too early to predict the impact of françois hollande ’s election as france ’s president . but in italy , one man , mario monti , is already making a difference . of course , no one elected monti , and his position is fragile and already contested , but there is a positive near-consensus that has allowed him to launch long-overdue structural reforms .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
many of these decisions turned badly , largely because information technology ( computers and how they are used ) eliminated many middle-class jobs . increasing trade globalization also did not help . moreover , as till von wachter of columbia university documented , prolonged periods of unemployment for parents have severe and lasting negative effects on their children . children whose families can not provide a decent start in life deserve help . but america has not provided it – a point recently made by jeb bush , a leading contender for the 2016 republican presidential nomination .
in most european countries , action to spur private investment in local services and transport – both large sectors – should also be considered . but governments need to understand the barriers to investment : regulatory failures ; weak enablers , including financial and human capital ; poor infrastructure ; and substandard technology . and they must commit rigorous cost-benefit analyses to ensure that any intervention translates into private investment that fosters productivity growth . here , too , it is – at the level of execution – that governments often perform poorly . too often , they spend money to support private-sector projects that fail to provide positive returns for the broader economy .
here is where the link between food and climate change comes in : as people climb out of poverty – as many people do – they demand more meat and dairy . this trend has grave implications for agriculture ’s ecological footprint . animals consume more food than they produce . cows release large volumes of heat-trapping methane . and clearing land for pasture releases carbon dioxide at a staggering rate .
the african development bank ( afdb ) , the presidency of which i am currently seeking , has a far more expansive mandate . but all of these institutions share an overarching goal : lifting people out of poverty and promoting sustainable development . leaders of these organizations must make complicated choices in allocating their finite resources . for example , they must balance the battle against poverty and hunger against efforts to improve gender equality , increase access to education , or tackle corruption . having served as sierra leone ’s finance minister , the central bank governor , and now foreign minister , i have worked for many years with international organizations to manage these competing priorities as i oversaw the economic revitalization of my own post-conflict state .
berlin – the european left ’s established left is facing the threat of extinction . in less than two years , social-democratic parties in the continent have suffered historic losses in france , the netherlands , germany , and italy . on a continent long defined by democratic competition between center-right and center-left parties , the collapse of the left could have far-reaching consequences beyond particular party interests . many factors underlie the decline of the left , including the dissolution of the traditional working class . but one of the most important reasons is as grim as it is simple : european voters increasingly oppose immigration , and do not trust the left to limit it .
the us is expected to become an energy self-sufficient in 2020 , becoming an oil exporter by 2030 . this scenario would grant the us three enormous advantages . it would enhance america ’s economic competitiveness , especially relative to europe , given the lower costs involved in extracting shale gas . it would also reduce america ’s exposure to growing unrest in the arab world . finally , it would increase america ’s relative vulnerability to america ’s main strategic rival , with china becoming increasingly dependent on middle east energy supplies .
the gap between their objective analysis of reality and government policies has become a chasm . in most western countries , for example , economists have long known about the growing divide in terms of incomes and other indicators among some affluent cities – which benefit from globalization – and the rest of the country . yet not until french president emmanuel macron ’s administration did a national leader enact tax cuts based on where one lives . as a result , 1 % of france ’s gdp is now reallocated first to the country ’s poorest parts . traditional parties could also learn something from listening to voters directly , rather than only through filters of media and pollsters .
how many lives is that worth ? suppose that the experience of visiting or recalling notre dame makes people about twice as happy as they would otherwise be over that time period , which means , in effect , an extra hour spent in notre dame or recalling one ’s visit , is as good as extending someone ’s life by an hour . suppose that we are saving the lives of people who would live 60 years more , the 9,000 years of annual benefits are equivalent to saving 150 lives per year . that ’s a significant number of lives , but now we must ask how many lives € 1 billion could save . whatever the gilets jaunes may advocate , it is obvious that we could save more lives and reduce more economic hardship , by helping people in extreme poverty in low-income countries than we could by spending it in france .
in fact , some see germany ’s renewed commitment to reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 to achieve the paris climate agreement ’s 2015 goals as a battering ram against schwarze null . on september 20 , the german government announced some € 54 billion ( $ 59.4 billion ) worth of spending measures to cut emissions . in the us , such a package would be called the green new deal . spending on such priorities as energy and the environment can be useful . but getting serious about co2 emissions and other environmental goals does not have to mean larger budget deficits .
any economist who seems to question the benefits of trade openness risks banishment , so let me be clear : i do not question the standard version of gains-from-trade theory , but the extravagant , unwarranted claims made about the consequences of openness . for the latter endangers broad public acceptance of the actual article because it unleashes expectations that are unlikely to be fulfilled . in the real world , opening up is not a simple matter of revising tariff codes and removing barriers to foreign investment . it requires a heavy dose of institutional reform that consumes financial , bureaucratic , and political resources . while many institutional reforms are development-friendly , they may not be targeted at key developmental goals – growth , improved governance , industrial and technological capability , poverty alleviation – and occasionally divert attention from them .
but , as the examples cited above reveal , seas are not reliably fulfilling their purpose . this is because , as it stands , tech specialists typically conduct seas at the behest of project developers – a practice that , as activists have repeatedly pointed out , is grossly unethical . with the “ right ” conclusions frequently basing their conclusions on only superficial assessments of the ecological and market value of affected ecosystems , it should come as no surprise that damaging projects are often approved , despite the failure to adhere to broadly agreed green development guidelines . to play an effective role in protecting the planet and its people , seas must be rigorous , credible , and transparent . this means that they must be conducted through well-regulated , impartial professionals .
but there are signs that these assumptions are now being challenged . prior to the crisis , regulators focused mainly on removing barriers to trading , and generally favored measures that made markets more complete by fostering faster , cheaper trading of a broader variety of financial claims . that is no longer the case . on the contrary , many nowadays question the assumption that greater market efficiency is always and everywhere the public good . might such ease and efficiency not fuel market instability , and serve intermediaries ’ interests rather than their clients ?
following strenuous international protests over chen ’s abduction , the fpc decided to investigate . xinhua announced that local officials responsible for the violence might be prosecuted . central authorities seemed to sense an immediate need to quell criticism of its controversial population-control efforts . and xinhua wasted no time in claiming that abuses were confined to a few towns . but central government authorities did little to halt intimidation of linyi villagers .
tighter us monetary policy could intensify global credit shortages , thereby increasing pressure on asia ’s economic and financial systems . overreactions and herding behavior by market participants could trigger a sudden reversal of capital inflows , with severe dollar shortages – as occurred in 1997 and 2008 – straining asian banks and corporations . these risks explain why the fed ’s mere suggestion of a potential move toward reducing its purchases of long-term asset ( so-called quantitative easing ) caused emerging-market currencies and asset prices to plummet this summer . they also underscore the need for stronger financial safety nets to asia ’s economies . the 2008 global financial crisis exposed fundamental flaws in the international monetary system , as the failure to ensure sufficient liquidity weighed heavily on emerging asian economies .
for many russians , if not most , the figure of authority embodies powers that control everything that matters in life ; they support him , regardless of the policies he implements , because there is no alternative to doing otherwise . this partly explains enduring popular devotion to rulers like joseph stalin . the question today is not the outcome of next year ’s presidential election ; that has already been determined . with the presidential term now extended to six years , we can expect to encore lasting up to 12 years – longer than putin ’s original performance . but now delusional and ignorant want to believe that putin will become a reformer this time around .
the old regime ’s adherents can more easily trick newcomers into dangerous compromises if the process is exceedingly fast . the other major shortcoming was that the orange revolution leader , viktor yushchenko , turned out to be a feckless and irresponsible president . initially , he traveled the world for months to celebrate his victory , ignoring the chaos back home . he then began vetoing virtually all government decisions , causing political stalemate , and , in the end , his presidency tacitly joined with the old guard ( now back in power ) against then-prime minister yuliya tymoshenko ( whose party , to its credit , voted against the constitution ) . but , while yushchenko serves as a warning to russians not to elect an accidental president with excessive powers , the underlying cause of the orange government ’s breakdown was that most of his ministers ( yushchenko appointees ) were defectors from the old regime .
indian-style socialism was a compound of nationalism and idealism . it embodied the conviction that goods and services vital to indians ’ economic well-being must remain in indian hands – and not in indians ’ hands seeking to profit from producing and selling such goods and services , but rather disinterested state hands , father , and mother to all indians . given this mindset , performance was not an appropriate criterion for judging the public sector ’s utility . inefficiencies were masked by generous subsidies from the national treasury , and a combination of vested interests – socialist ideologues , bureaucratic managers , trade unions , and monopolies – kept it beyond political criticism . the “ permit-quota ” culture of statist socialism allowed politicians and bureaucrats to use public services as a vehicle for private gratification , giving birth to a culture of corruption that still persists .
for organizations without clout – and digital revenue – of times , people-oriented approaches may also be needed to secure investment . with the ad-driven business model increasingly becoming apparent , many media leaders – close to one-third , according to reuters institute survey – believe that in future foundations and non-profits will play a central role in supporting media . but persuading foundations and philanthropists to open their hearts and wallets will require human connectivity and engagement , rather than algorithms or ai-enabled software . potential funders need to be convinced that journalism is as noble a cause , say , cancer research . technology alone can not spur democracy , help to answer important questions , and facilitate effective leadership by enhancing accountability .
with europe politically and geographically divided , italy ’s politics could tip the balance . a pro-eu italy governed by a m5s-democrat coalition could join with france and germany to reform the eu ; regain a clear foreign-policy voice for the eu vis-à-vis the us , russia , and china ; and implement a green , innovation-based strategy . to forge such a coalition , m5s would have to adopt a responsible and clearly defined economic program , and the democrats would have to accept being the junior partner of untested insurgent forces . a possible key to mutual confidence would be for the democrats to hold a crucial finance ministry , while m5s appoints prime minister . not surprisingly , us president donald trump ’s utterly reckless former adviser , stephen bannon , rushed to italy to encourage m5s and the league to form a coalition that he called the “ ultimate dream , ” because it would break the eu .
my statements were also motivated by problems of the way capital punishment is imposed in india . the supreme court declared that capital punishment should be applied only in the “ rarest of rare ” cases . and , indeed , the last three executions in the country stemmed from terrorist offenses that threatened or took a lot of lives . but the decision to impose capital punishment remains highly subjective . indeed , whether capital punishment is meted out depends on a number of variables , beginning with judicial and social biases .
and average hourly wages for all employees on private non-farm payrolls posted annual growth of 2.5 % in october , the largest since 2009 . as the fed slowly raises interest rates , those middle-class families holding hard-won savings at the bank will finally start to realize some return on their deposits . the long-term effects should not be underestimated , given the helpful impact of compound saving . during the last tightening cycle between 2004 and 2006 , households ’ interest income rose 29 % . while this time , the gains will probably be smaller and slower to arrive , owing to the fed ’s likely pace and scale of tightening , the interest paid on savings will shift household income in the right direction : up .
beijing – most western media have characterized the chinese communist party ’s recent 19th national congress ( cpc ) as a pure power play , with president xi jinping entrenching his position . but the accumulation of political capital in this case is a means to an end . for xi , that end is a smooth transition to modernity that cements the cpc ’s long-term authority and ensures his own legacy as china ’s most significant leader . xi knows that if china is to continue to thrive in a fast-changing world , he will need to manage deftly a major social and economic transformation , while making even more important improvements in state governance . and , to secure the long-term survival of china ’s one-party system , he must reform state and party institutions ; indeed , political reform is , for xi , a prerequisite for economic reform .
another question is how much revenues should be transferred , and how transfers can be carried out in a country as large , complex , and financially backward as nigeria . but , even with all the difficulty of corruption and inefficiency that will no doubt plague its actual implementation , our proposal is superior to the status quo . after all , today ’s horrific conditions are the result of staggering corruption and waste over the past 40 years . at best , our proposal could fundamentally improve the quality of public institutions , and thus transform economics and politics in nigeria for decades to come . the time to act is now .
financial markets ’ instability can cause severe economic and social dislocations . the question poses itself : what should be done to preserve the stability of the financial system ? this can not be answered in an abstract , because every situation is different . financial markets are best understood as a historical process , and history never quite repeats itself . recent turmoil in asian markets raises difficult questions about currency pegs , asset bubbles , inadequate banking supervision , and the lack of financial information that can not be ignored .
screening travelers from affected regions may have prevented major epidemics elsewhere . health officials around the world should maintain their vigilance and prepare for the possibility that renewed control efforts will be required if sars resurges . indeed , experience with sars in toronto , where cases escaped detection and led to a second outbreak , stands as a warning against excessive optimism about the apparent control of larger and more geographically dispersed outbreaks in taiwan and mainland china . in fact , these epidemics may be eliminated entirely in the months ahead . but it is at least as likely that some transmission will persist , or that the virus will be reintroduced into human populations from animals .
the bush administration ’s recent decision to initiate a parallel anti-corruption process through the g-8 leaves the united states outside the premier international forum for addressing resource transparency while unnecessarily reinventing the wheel in the process . nor have the us and britain used their power in iraq to promote transparency in the oil sector . let us hope that the new iraqi government does better . it is difficult to see how democracy can take root if the country ’s most important source of income remains as veiled in secrecy as it was under saddam . the eiti still has a long way to go , but it is one of the most effective vehicles available for achieving a global standard of disclosure and accountability .
there are more united nations resolutions devoted to human-rights abuses committed by israel than to abuses by all other countries combined . stories about israel focus almost exclusively on the palestinian conflict . joyce karam , the washington washington post chief bureau of pan-arab newspaper al-hayat , believes that this is because “ muslim slaughter or arab killings seem more acceptable than israel killing arabs . ” syrian , libyan , and yemenite victims are faceless ; the lionization of incomparably fewer gazan casualties makes them unique . this is not to say that israel should be consoled by macabre arithmetic of bloodshed .
even the imf now recognizes that capital market liberalization has delivered neither growth nor stability in many developing countries . yet , whether driven by narrow ideology or by responding to demands for special interests , the bush administration continues to demand an extreme form of such liberalization in its bilateral trade agreements . the second issue concerns the unbalanced intellectual property provisions ( trips ) of the uruguay round of trade talks , dictated by america ’s pharmaceutical and entertainment industries . these provisions restricted countries from making generic imitation of drugs , making many critically important medicines unaffordable in developing countries . spearheaded by worries about aids , activists around the world demanded that something be done .
now that the cap is coming into effect , we will soon benefit from the extraordinary effects of a new , permanent global health dividend . we can expect to see data in the coming years indicating declining health-care costs and improved educational outcomes from around the world . meanwhile , governments will collaborate on additional measures to reduce the environmental and climate impact of the global maritime trading system . such efforts are essential to achieving the targets outlined in the 2015 paris climate agreement . as matters stand , the shipping sector , ranked alongside countries , is the world ’s sixth-largest greenhouse-gas emitter .
cambridge – the united states is famous for its ability to innovate . aspiring fiscal conservatives around the world thus might be interested in learning four tricks that american politicians commonly use when promising to cut taxes while simultaneously cutting budget deficits . these are tough promises to keep , for the simple reason that a budget deficit equals government spending minus tax revenues . but each of the four tricks has been refined over three decades . indeed , they first acquired their colorful names in the early years of ronald reagan ’s presidency : the “ magic asterisk , ” the “ rosy scenario , ” the laffer hypothesis , and the “ starve the beast ” scenario .
so which is it : are banks still at risk ? or has post-crisis regulatory reform done its job ? the 2008 financial crisis highlighted two dangerous features of today ’s financial system . first , governments bail out the largest banks , rather than letting them collapse and damage the economy . second , and , worse , being too big to fail helps big banks grow even larger , because lenders and trading partners prefer to work with banks that have implicit government guarantees .
while it is impossible to predict the outcome of the arab spring , the alliance has proved its capacity to act wisely in libya , thereby improving its image in north africa . in chicago , nato will agree on a major political declaration offering further support to the region , on the condition that the region ’s countries are asking it . participants in chicago will have major differences over these issues , and the results may not be ideal . but reinventing nato is a long-term process , and will necessarily occur in small steps . the alliance ’s main goal must be to ensure that they are steps forward .
argentina ’s new president-elect , mauricio macri , an engineer by training , is often described in the international press as “ center-right . ” but that label is not quite correct . in argentina , the left-right divide has blurred policies by the “ headed perónist justicialist ” party , which privatized state companies in the 1990s , only to re-nationalize them later . moreover , “ center-right ” often means “ conservative , ” and macri ’s victory will not “ conserve ” the status quo . macri is best described as a “ liberal ” – in europe .
women with abnormal brca1 or brca2 gene run a lifetime risk of up to 85 % of developing breast cancer , while the increased risk of developing ovarian cancer is about 55 % for women with brca1 or brca2 mutations , and about 25 % for brca2 mutations . most recently , huge studies analyzing the effects of single nucleotide variations in genomic dna , so-called single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) , on breast cancer risk of a “ epigenetic ” mutation carriers identified so-called modifier snp , which can decrease or increase individual lifetime risk . we have also learned that only 20-40 % of breast cancers that cluster in families come from brca1 or brca2 germline mutations – genetic alterations that present from birth in every cell of the body , and can be transmitted to offspring . increased breast cancer risk is also known to be associated with several inherited “ “ anthropmes , ” such as li-fraumeni syndrome , a condition that is further associated with childhood onset of multiple types of mitochondrinancies ,
xi ’s government is struggling to maintain domestic stability as it moves china away from labor-intensive , investment-heavy economic growth toward a model based on domestic consumption and services . the primacy of this domestic agenda means that china ’s attempt to lead global change will lack a clear vision and coherent strategy . a second problem stems from china ’s incomplete global transition on the world stage . after prevailing in world war ii , the us immediately and undeniably dominated the globe . in seeking to lead the next stage of economic globalization , china enjoys no such geopolitical power and legitimacy .
our commitment to tackling climate change is based on our understanding of the enormous health risks and costs that arise from inaction . costa rica devotes significant resources to tackle problems like dengue fever and malaria , because our people remain our most important asset . and staying below the 1.5 ° c limit will mean 3.3 million fewer dengue fever cases annually in latin america and the caribbean , fewer people at risk of malaria , and less food instability and poor nutrition caused by higher temperatures and unstable weather patterns . costa rica is proud to lead the world by putting this approach into practice . as a result , we are one of the few countries ready to go beyond our commitments under the paris climate agreement .
promoting china ’s traditional civilization with strengthened spiritual ties is now real hope . there is now real hope that talks along these lines can succeed . but there is a major obstacle to easing tensions : the united states ’ proposed $ 6.5 billion sale to taiwan of 30 apache attack helicopters and 330 patriot missiles . china-us talks on defense cooperation earlier stalled , owing to such arms negotiations . since restarted , they have sent an olive branch to the obama administration by china ’s government .
speaking at the european parliament in brussels in april 2017 , ceu president and rector michael ignatieff could say , “ i have support in washington . i have support in berlin , i have supported in budapest . i have now been time to get some support in brussels . ” and ignatieff has received some backing , at least initially . in december 2017 , the european commission took hungary to the ecj ( ecj ) over the government ’s so-called “ ceu law , ” which the university has said is intended to force it out of the country .
for example , most chinese doctors and patients have long regarded acupuncture as effective stroke treatment , using it to improve motor , speech , and other functions that were destroyed . one survey showed that 66 % of chinese doctors use acupuncture routinely to treat stroke effects , with 63 % of doctors surveyed believing that it would be effective . some 36 % of chinese doctors think that acupuncture ’s effectiveness remains uncertain , perhaps because the scientific foundation for it remains so new . recently , however , systematic scientific studies of acupuncture ’s effects in such treatment began . almost all trials on acupuncture as treatment for stroke conducted within china have been positive .
even after years of quantitative easing ( qe ) and ultra-low interest rates , central bankers in the advanced economies – particularly the eurozone – have continued to undershoot their inflation targets . economists also had to question long-held assumptions about downward nominal wage rigidities , artifact of 1960-70s , when organized labor was much stronger . clearly , the idea that employees will always resist cutting wages ( or workers ’ hours ) no longer applies . in fact , declining labor power may explain why the phillips curve no longer seems to hold true . but , even more important , it could be the reason why measured productivity remains persistently weak .
but there must be no trade-off between inequality and growth . governments can enhance growth by increasing inclusiveness . a country ’s most valuable resource is its people . so it is crucial to ensure that everyone can live up to their potential , which requires education opportunities for all . a modern economy also requires risk-taking .
this haughty attitude is reflected in the jargon of “ consenting a patient ” – as though it was something done to a patient like drawing blood or administering an injection : “ dr. smith , please go consent mr. jones . ” instead , consent should be viewed as a cherished patient ’s possession , which he or she may choose to relinquish , if presented with a sufficiently compelling case . consent should not be snatched away , like a train ticket held out for a conductor . the problem is compounded when consent comes just hours before a major operation , and months after the surgeon ’s last consultation . this can lead patients to consent to procedures that they do not understand – or want .
those with sought-after talents have more bargaining power , better able to manage their careers , and command higher salaries . those without in-demand skills struggle and feel disposable . so far , this abundance of choice has discouraged companies from spending resources on training employees , who might soon decide to join a competitor after all . as talent shortages loom , however , the need to retain employees could tip the balance back toward greater investment in professional development . employers providing learning opportunities will become a destination for talent .
similar to traditional military command-and-control protocols , they gain power in numbers , and can quickly react to a broad array of attacks . such a digital ecosystem strengthens checks and balances , reduces the possibility of failure , and mitigating the effects of incursion . in such a future scenario , a hollywood blockbuster might be about computers fighting one another , while humans stand by . it would portray the broader idea of the “ singularity , ” a hypothetical turning point when the artificial surpasses the human being . fortunately , life is still far from imitating art .
on march 6 , i received six recommendations from the g20 countries ’ members of “ science ence20 , ” created by g20 countries ’ national academies of science . to reduce threats to marine ecosystems and conserve marine environments , the final two recommendations urge the “ establishment of improved data storage and governance systems that ensure open access by scientists globally , ” and the “ sharing of information gained through research activities carried out under extensive and multinational collaboration , expedite a comprehensive understanding of the global ocean and its dynamics . ” it is precisely for this reason that we must ensure dfft and turn data into public goods for scientists worldwide . the g20 summit in osaka comes at the dawn of a new era – reiwa ( “ beautiful harmony ” ) – in japan . on april 30 , the world witnessed abdication by its majesty ’s emperor emeritus akihito , the first abdication by a reigning emperor in 202 years .
by investing in “ smart ” and “ resilient ” urban planning , bordeaux governments in france to curitiba in brazil are strengthening their brand identities and luring talent , investment , and businesses from around the world . the american-canadian author and urban activist jane jacobs famously observed that cities are the true engines of national prosperity . cities are power to grow through innovation , trade , and exchange . and urban services are often more visible to citizens than federal aid ; consider , for example , who responds during a traffic accident or natural disaster . to be sure , today ’s cities face many challenges .
the danger is not just that economic rivalry , protectionism , and trade restrictions would threaten global prosperity ; it is that these developments would also raise the risk of a serious political confrontation . technological sovereignty would take the place of trade and exchange , and corporations ’ nationality – even major multinationals – would become just as important as their business model . still , it would be a mistake to conclude that this entire conflict was brought on solely by trump and his neo-nationalist agenda . two days after google announced its decision , the new york times published a commentary by thomas friedman . friedman , the world ’s author , is flat , echoing many of trump ’s attacks on china ’s unfair trade practices . if that is where the previous ideological high priest of globalization now stands , china is facing off against not just trump ’s america , but also liberal america , too .
in a small-state setting , imposing dense networks of controls is likely to lead to the loss of mobile factors of production , while in a large state that is harder for labor or capital to escape . on the international stage , large states try to make international rules , often building domestic legitimacy on their claims to shape the larger world : they think in terms of what french thinkers call “ harnessing globalization . ” instead of accepting an international system roughly as it is , with all its imperfections , they think they can use their weight to alter the rules – in their favor . small states ’ nervousness and fear began to increase roughly in 2000 . the new political realities were highlighted by the iraq war , china ’s quest for energy sources in developing countries , and russia ’s assertiveness in foreign and domestic politics .
democratic legitimacy won a major battle over social legitimacy , and it is a democratic legitimacy that has been a major power . this opens the way for more and deeper reform . a law restricting transport strikes took effect on january 1 , and sarkozy intends to break the 35-hour workweek , albeit indirectly . instead of repealing the law , overtime work is to become easy and relatively cheap . he is also preparing to raise the retirement age to 61 , from 60 to 60 .
with the exception of the united kingdom , the extreme free-market view has gained less traction in europe in recent decades than it has done in the us ; the challenge of implementing eurozone financial reforms , however , is actually more difficult . governments regard domestic banks as important purchasers of sovereign debt . the banks argue that more effective regulation would stifle credit and slow the pace of economic recovery . as a result , the authorities in germany and france ( as in japan ) have consistently resisted increasing capital requirements , despite widespread agreement that does so as an essential component of effective re-regulation . their opposition has undermined international efforts to build a more resilient system – and will likely hamper efforts to put the european economy on a sounder footing .
this reflects a fundamental conflict between thatcherism and trumpism : the latter aims to sweep away the neoliberal consensus of unregulated markets , privatization , free trade , and immigration that comprised the former . but , even if ideas are different , tactics are the same . to consolidate support , thatcher would go head-to-head with carefully selected enemies – from british miners to argentina ’s president , general leopoldo galtieri , to bureaucrats in brussels . similarly , as the hudson institute ’s craig kennedy recently told me , “ bannon wants to radicalize anti-trump liberals into the fight for causes that alienate them from mainstream america . ” every time trump ’s opponents march for women , muslims , or sexual minorities , they fortify trump ’s core support base .
young democracies can be cruel : their voters are often as unforgiving as their political opponents . the two weeks since taiwan ’s disputed presidential election in march 20 – only the third such democratic vote in the country ’s history – have tested this truism almost to the breaking point . taiwan ’s young democracy now needs to cope with the balancing act that president chen shui-bian ’s re-election thrust on it . while canvassing for votes in his hometown in southern taiwan on the eve of the election , president chen and vice president annette lu lu lu both wounded assassin ’s bullet . sympathy for this secured the president his razor-thin margin of victory – with just 50.1 % of the votes – over lien chan , the kuomintang party ’s candidate and the people ’s first party ( kmmt-pfp ) coalition .
in this respect , the current effort to prop up the syrian government counts as twofer . but raising russian living standards remains central to putin ’s grip on power and his long-term legacy . even before intervening in ukraine , putin failed to deliver on his grand promise , made in 2003 , to double the size of russia ’s economy within a decade . in terms of nominal per capita gdp , russia still fares little better than mexico . signing efforts to diversify and modernize the economy failed because disruptive technologies and business strategies can not be decreed from the top .
cambridge – greek prime minister alexis tsipras has a chance to become his country what south korean president kim dae-jung and brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva were to theirs : a man of the left who moves toward fiscal responsibility and freer markets . like tsipras , both were elected in the midst of economic crisis . both immediately confronted the international financial constraints that opposition politicians can afford to ignore . on assuming power , kim and lula were able to adjust , politically and mentally , to the new realities that confronted them , launching much-needed reforms . some of the reforms were “ conservative ” ( or “ neo-liberal ” ) , and perhaps were impossible under the right politicians .
annual economic growth in the state averaged more than 10 % from 2006 to 2012 , when gujarati city of ahmedabad short-listed lee kuan yew world city prize . but history haunts modi ’s campaign – namely , the deaths of more than 1,000 people in anti-muslim riots in gujarat in 2002 . though the supreme court cleared him of all personal wrongdoing , the legacy of tragedy persists , making it difficult for modi to win muslim votes without alienating his hindu nationalist base . this has not prevented modi from taking political risks , beginning with his assertion that india needs toilets more than temples . but his decision to run for prime minister is by far his riskiest move , as it tests his national appeal .
xi ’s anti-corruption campaign can not overcome this resistance ; instead , it is merely discouraging initiative . on a recent visit to beijing , the chinese economist told me that xi ’s campaign cost china 1 % of gdp per year . a chinese businessman told me that real growth was less than half the official figure . perhaps this can be countered by the dynamism of the private sector , but even there , fear of losing control is increasing the party ’s role . finally , there is china ’s soft-power deficit .
meanwhile , turkey and the united states have a mutual interest in working together in iraq , syria , and iran . but , as turkey builds closer relations with the us , and its competition with iran stiffens in both iraq and syria , it will also have to deal with a more assertive russia , eager to prove itself in the middle east and the eastern mediterranean – and to maintain its foothold in syria . for better or worse , the middle east ’s status quo has unraveled , and turkey must rethink and recalibrate its regional policies . turkey ’s real strengths are its flourishing economy , a secular democratic system , and the ability to mediate between its western allies and a region struggling to join the twenty-first-century mainstream . how turkey navigates the syrian debacle will determine its position in the broader transformation of its neighborhood .
these remedies have lowered the rate of new infections ( though the total number of people living with hiv , especially between 15-49 , continues to rise ) . with almost two million patients now on antiretroviral treatment , annual aids-related deaths have fallen by around 100,000 since 2005 . contagion among newborn babies , once running at around 70,000 per year , has been cut by some 63 % , and the lives of millions of hiv/aids sufferers have been prolonged . another important factor has been improved integration of treatment plans . the government has aligned its early antiretroviral treatment programs for existing sufferers , initiated in 2008 with early monitoring programs for pregnant women .
but this can happen only if nature ’s cornucopia is conserved , so that current and future generations of researchers can make new discoveries that benefit patients everywhere . consider the polar bear , threatened with extinction in the wild by climate change . these mammals spend up to seven months on hibernating , during which time they are essentially immobile . a human would lose a third or more bone mass when immobile for this period . astonishingly , hibernating bears lay down new bone by producing the substance that inhibits cells that break bone and promotes those that produce bone and cartilage .
but they need stronger support – not just in the air or training of weapons and training , but also from western special forces . there is a strong argument , too , for nato to recognize that one of its members , france , has been attacked , thereby activating article 5 of the north atlantic treaty , which ensures mutual defense . the entire alliance should commit itself to defeating terrorism . yet this is not only europe ’s fight . this is about a global order in a stable and prosperous world .
now , the eu is at the center of domestic political debates , which increasingly include existential questions about the survival of the european project and the european project as a whole . this means that the candidates in next year ’s european elections are unlikely to focus only on domestic issues . while there will be some of this , there is likely to be , for the first time , widespread debate about europe ’s future and policies , especially in areas like migration , defense , and security , energy and climate , and relations with major powers like the united states and russia . after all , despite their differences , virtually every country in europe currently grappling with the question of how much europe it wants , how open and optimistic it should be about new forms of technology-enabled globalization , and how much social solidarity is appropriate . these debates – and thus the european parliament that emerges next year – are unlikely to adhere to standard party lines .
market failures are a fact of life , but so are government failures . neo-liberal ideologies assume perfect markets , perfect information , and host to other things , which even the best performing market economies can not satisfy . • while neo-liberals worry about excessive government , weak government impedes growth , because weak states can not provide law and order , they can not enforce contracts , and can not ensure a safe , sound banking system . after all , it was too little regulation – capital and financial-market liberalization foisted on east asia by the imf and the us treasury – that led to the 1997 financial crisis . the question should not have been about how to deregulate quickly , but about how to develop the right regulatory framework .
they certainly do , but so what ? any and all monetary-policy actions redistribute wealth . an interest-rate hike pleases savers , while a rate cut is a boon to borrowers . importers prefer a strong exchange rate ; exporters prefer a weak one . to make any sense at all , monetary policy must have different effects on different groups at different times .
in any case , the chinese wage narrative is much more complicated than it might seem . nominal wages may rise , while real wages stagnate , owing to higher inflation . even if real wages increase in some coastal cities , “ surplus labor ” could keep the national average flat . and even a real rise in wages on the national level will not undermine competitiveness unless labor productivity grows faster . so the conclusion seems to be that wage growth will not threaten china ’s competitiveness in the next ten or even 20 years .
to judge whether their prices are “ too high ” at the existing exchange rate , we must look at the trade balance . germany , europe ’s largest exporter , has a very large trade surplus with the rest of the world . because german exports are attractive to foreign buyers at the existing exchange rate , germany in 2009 was the world ’s second-largest exporter ( after china ) . germany ’s exports exceeded its imports by nearly $ 200 billion in the last twelve months , a surplus equivalent to almost 6 % of gdp . it is clear that germany ’s net exports would remain high even if the euro appreciated substantially from its current level .
these structural elements have been compounded by developments in the region , reinforced by a sense among israeli voters that they are threatened by multiple enemies : iran and its nuclear ambitions ; hezbollah and hamas and their missiles ; isis ’s rise amid state failure in iraq , syria , and elsewhere . against this backdrop , it is easier to defend the status quo than to advocate accommodation involving territorial concessions . netanyahu ’s victory was clearly an impressive personal comeback . in the weeks leading up to the elections , it seemed that the public had grown weary of a prime minister who was in office long enough to be corrupted by the arrogance of power and tainted by a raft of petty scandals . he conducted a campaign that relied on his eloquence and charisma , as well as on scare tactics .
investment should therefore be gradual , which may temporarily store some oil wealth abroad . throughout this process , kenya ’s leaders should bear in mind that even the best plans can sometimes go awry , as ghana ’s recent experience has shown . four billion barrels of oil were discovered off ghana ’s coast in 2007 , and production began in 2010 . the following year , the petroleum revenue management act divided wealth among consumption , investment , and offshore savings , as recommended by economists around the world ( including the us ) . but , with last year ’s presidential election , the situation began to deteriorate .
in 1997 , the imf and the united states treasury blamed the crisis on the lack of transparency in financial markets . but when developing countries pointed fingers at secret bank accounts and hedge funds , the imf and the us enthusiasm for greater transparency diminished . since then , hedge funds have grown in importance , and secret bank accounts have flourished . but there are some big differences between then and now . most developing countries have accumulated massive foreign currency reserves , and they are now doing so .
in any case , hardships suffered by eu citizens could be lessened if the eurozone followed draghi ’s final prescription – providing more fiscal and monetary stimulus in some areas to offset reform and fiscal consolidation in others . by selectively addressing the most dangerous risks , draghi was able to minimize them . policymakers should do the same when it comes to sanctions against russia , mitigating their impact on those europeans who stand to suffer the most . european policymakers have the tools and intelligence to retain influence in ukraine . if they look to the ecb , they will find the right model for deploying them .
while reports surfacing that palin told a group of african-americans that she did not have to hire black people , working-class white women often understand their own experience in terms of racial hostility . they perceive an underclass that they believe they receive benefits denied to them , and a thriving developing world economy that siphons off well-paying blue-collar jobs . so , when sarah palin escorted into the media limelight , she becomes the symbolic revenge fantasy of many of those silenced , exhausted factory workers , and secretaries . to see a working-class white woman be picked to serve heartbeat from an american president resonates powerfully with them . think of the appeal of films like thelma and louise or working girl , in which the leading character is gutsy , exploited secretary who trampled snooty female ivy league boss , nonetheless manages to end up with dream jobs , dream guy , and corner office .
china has already delivered on that front by abandoning a growth model that has successfully guided the country ’s economic development for more than 30 years . recognizing the need to switch from a model focused mainly on exports – and investment-led production ( via manufacturing ) to one led by private consumption ( via services ) . that change will give china a far better chance to avoid the dreaded “ middle-income trap , ” which ensnares most developing economies precisely because their policymakers mistakenly believe that the early-stage takeoff recipe is sufficient to achieve developed-country status . the american and chinese cases do not exist in a vacuum . as i emphasize in my new book the codependency of china and america , they together inextricably .
hong kong – next month , policymakers , business leaders , academics , and civil-society representatives will meet in kiel , germany , for the global economic symposium ( ges ) , where they will attempt to develop concrete solutions to today ’s most pressing economic issues . whether they produce effective proposals will depend on a comprehensive understanding of the factors underpinning – and undermining – financial stability worldwide . at last year ’s summit , dialogues about the future of central banking , which pitted inflation-targeting against financial stability , produced three solutions : central banks should adopt a counter-cyclical policy approach ; a world monetary authority should be created to promote multilateral cooperation among central banks ; and price stability must remain central banks ’ primary goal . while these solutions have some merit , they are inadequate to address effectively the complex and far-reaching flaws that led to the 2007-2009 global financial crisis . the crisis represented a comprehensive systemic failure , involving breakdowns at almost all levels , from macroeconomic theory to micro-level incentives to institutions .
piketty ’s framework highlights several drivers of this trend . for starters , by lowering trade and investment barriers , globalization has created a winner-take-all environment in which the most technologically advanced actors have gained market share through economies of scale . in particular , as the global economy moves toward knowledge-based value creation , a few innovators in global branding , high-technology , and creative industries win big , with the global tech boom augmenting their gains . the resulting concentration of income , wealth , and power undermines systemic stability by creating too-big-to-fail entities , while hampering smaller players ’ ability to compete . the global financial system reinforces this concentration , with negative real interest rates promoting financial repression on household saving .
prevention , however , must also address the dangers posed by potentially destabilizing capital movements . recent experience teaches that the speed and magnitude with which both domestic and foreign investors can move into and out of capital markets far exceeds individual countries ’ ability – and the international community – to counter such flows . many countries lack foreign currency reserves sufficient to meet sudden and large-scale capital outflows without destabilizing their domestic economies . sometimes these outflows can occur through no fault of the country in question , but because of financial-market contagion that spreads from disturbances elsewhere . all this phenomenon was too evident during the asian crisis and following the russian debt default of august 1998 .
like courtiers who surrounded louis xviii , they have forgotten nothing and learned nothing . the only question now in doubt is whether brown ’s verdict on the euro will be “ not quite yet , ” not before the next election , ” or just plain “ no . ” it is a decision taken virtually independently by prime minister tony blair and even against his wishes . blair believes that britain should join the euro because he wants britain to be , as he puts it , “ at the heart of europe . ” most commentators have tended to assume that if that is what tony blair wants , then sooner or later , that is what will happen , because , after all , he is prime minister .
trump ’s rejection of “ reasoned discourse , ” including truth and evidence commitments , has been accompanied by unlimited “ capacity to manipulate mass opinion and play on such repressed emotions as racism and class envy . ” the result of trump ’s approach is that america ’s existing problems are worsening and huge opportunities are missed . but what can stop demons already unleashed ? and , even if they are stopped , can the damage that they have already wrought be reversed ? there was some backlash against trump when he failed to condemn clearly the white supremacist demonstrators in charlottesville , virginia , whose “ unite the right ” rally in august ended with the murder of a counter-protester .
finally , trump has proposed tax deductions for average childcare costs . that might seem broadly beneficial , but it would help only those in high enough tax brackets to itemize deductions – mostly households with annual income above $ 75,000 ( median american household income was $ 54,462 in 2015 ) . the question of whether trump ’s tax policies would benefit him remains directly unanswered , because , unlike all other presidential candidates since richard nixon , he has refused to release his income-tax records . what is certain is that trump ’s tax policies are fiscally irresponsible . indeed , there is no indication of how any of his tax policies would be financed , and every indication that they would sharply expand the budget deficit .
and in south africa , marlon parker , founder of the academy of social innovation and incubator rlabs , has created a virtual currency , called zlato encourage active participation in skills-training workshops . when young people attend courses , access laptops , or book rooms at rlabs cafes , they earn zlato credit that can be exchanged for food , medical care , and basic necessities . since its inception in 2008 , rlabs have created tens of thousands of jobs , and is now active in 24 countries . africa ’s youngest entrepreneurs are not just finding ways to support themselves and contribute to their communities ; they are solving the root cause of migration on – and off – the continent . entrepreneurs supported through the anzisha prize prize , for example , have created more than 300 jobs , generating more than $ 850,000 in capital .
but then scotland would demand its own special arrangement vis-à-vis the eu , putting the uk on track for a major constitutional shakeup , and possibly dissolution . avoiding this scenario means sacrificing autonomy over trade policy for the sake of the good friday agreement and territorial integrity . but this would upset hardline brexiteers and could split the conservative party , the risk theresa may has been reluctant to take . british leaders need to acknowledge that all brexit scenarios involve tradeoffs , and the country urgently needs to hold a national debate to rank voters ’ preferences . the choice is between one of the three brexit scenarios and suspending the brexit process altogether .
the country also received $ 70 billion in remittances last year – more than double the level of inward foreign direct investment . there is undoubtedly a utilitarian aspect to pravasi bharatiya divas celebrations , as suggested by the many parallel seminars being run by state governments to attract expatriate investment . the importance of diaspora financing – from working-class remittances that transformed kerala ’s rural countryside to millions poured into high-tech businesses in bangalore or gurgaon by silicon valley investors – can not be minimized , especially during the global financial crisis . but we should not get carried away : overseas indians still invest a lower share of their resources in india than overseas chinese do in china . encouraging them to do more is certainly a worthwhile task for the indian government – and an overt goal of the annual conclave .
businesses that ignore the broader social and environmental context in which they operate are likely to pay a price : reputational damage and loss of brand value , falling sales , difficulty recruiting talent , lower worker productivity , corruption , tougher government regulation , or climate-change-related increases . there are now mobile phone apps that evaluate and grade large multinational companies ’ supply chains for customers , investors , and public officials . companies that score poorly on losing sales and investors , and triggering official regulatory or legal action . apple ’s brand , for example , recently shaken revelations of brutal workplace conditions at foxconn factories in china , where most of its iphones and ipads are assembled . in response to concerns among customers , employees , and shareholders , apple has improved working conditions and agreed to regular reviews by an independent observer .
they also tolerate enterprise or government policies that encourage high saving . for example , the uptrend in saving in china began around the same time that its one-child policy was implemented in 1979 . this prevented the birth rate from rebounding after the 1966-76 cultural revolution . the late nobel laureate economist franco modigliani , in his most recent major published paper in 2004 ( co-authored with shi larry cao ) , argued that this demographic change explains much of the increase in saving rates , as chinese substituted investment in capital for investment in children . but income growth and demographics do not explain everything .
while the concept is modern , the idea is not new . practical people have long understood its importance in leadership . in the 1930s , former us supreme court justice oliver wendell holmes , a crusty old veteran of the american civil war , was taken to meet franklin d. roosevelt , a fellow harvard graduate , but one who was not a distinguished student . asked later about his impressions of the new president , holmes famously quipped , “ second-class intellect ; first-class temperament . ” most historians would agree that roosevelt ’s success as a leader rested more on his emotional than his analytical iq .
a separate but simultaneous vote in abyei ’s oil-rich province will allow voters to choose if they are to join the north or south . the artificial fusion of mainly arab , muslim north sudan , and the african south , where christianity and traditional animist beliefs are predominant , has been an abject failure . since sudan won independence from the united kingdom in 1956 , the country has convulsed almost constant north-south cultural and religious divides . matters were subsequently complicated by separate conflict – this time between muslims – over resources in the western darfur region . if the non-muslim south gained independence at a large religious , cultural , and administrative autonomy within a decentralized federal structure , it is inconceivable that the country could have remained at peace .
when i was administrator of the undp , i had to deal with constant “ requests ” from government representatives . typically , they were formulated in an acceptable way , asking me to “ look into ” a particular issue . but i also received requests – often from the global superpowers – in a sense that was in clear violation of article 100 of the un charter , and i had to spend a great deal of time trying to avoid engaging governments on such terms . nonetheless , my overall experience at the undp and the world bank suggested that staff and management could and should behave in accordance with article 100 . being responsive to member states ’ concerns and priorities was right and normal ; taking orders from them was not .
more broadly , the investor agenda for a low-carbon world attracted 477 signatories representing around $ 34 trillion in assets under management . these investors are calling on governments not just to limit rising temperatures , but also to meet the paris climate agreement ’s more difficult goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels . meanwhile , the institute for energy economics and financial analysis has found that those who ignored climate-change warnings have already hit the financial hit . blackrock , the world ’s largest fund manager , has lost around $ 90 billion over the past decade , with three-quarters due to its holdings in exxonmobil , chevron , shell , and bp . and investors in general electric , including blackrock , have lost a whopping $ 193 billion in three years leading up to 2018 , because the company misjudged the pace of the shift toward green energy and the collapse of demand for gas turbines and thermal power stations .
conflict with the united states is unlikely for the moment . at such a delicate time internally , china would gain nothing from antagonizing the us . but trouble with america ’s allies , particularly japan , could draw the us into a fight that it would strongly prefer to avoid . in short , china is on the brink of great , necessary , and dangerous transformations that promise to transform the country for the better – or to make everything , including regional stability , much worse . the entire world has a large stake in what happens next .
south africa ’s post-apartheid constitution guarantees the right to public-sector information , and , in many cases , private business information as well . south africa adopted the freedom of information law in 2000 , five years before the united kingdom did . now , however , south africa ’s right to information is in jeopardy . in late november , the lower house of parliament , led by the majority of the african national congress ( anc ) , overwhelmingly passed a new law – the “ protection of the state information bill ” – whose adoption would shield the country ’s most-powerful political and business elites from public scrutiny . south africa ’s nobel prize-winning novelist and anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer likened the bill to apartheid legislation .
washington , dc – the chinese economy has slowed in recent years , but it is still a powerful performer , contributing about one-third of global economic growth . it is also becoming more sustainable , in line with the shift in its growth model away from investment and exports , and toward domestic demand and services . in the run-up to next month ’s g20 summit in hangzhou , china was calling loudly for new commitments to structural reforms to stimulate growth in the advanced and emerging-market economies . but , at home , china faces serious risks . more importantly , domestic credit continues to expand at an unsustainable pace , with corporate debt accumulating to dangerous levels .
hong kong – at the beginning of this century , when china launched its “ going out ” policy – focused on using foreign-exchange reserves to support overseas expansion and acquisitions by chinese companies – few expected the country to emerge quickly as a leading economic player in latin america . yet that is precisely what has happened . the question is whether this is good for latin america . in less than 15 years , china has gone from playing a rather marginal economic role in latin america to being among the region ’s top investors and trading partners , as well as its foremost lender and infrastructure builder . with its economic plans in latin america cruising along smoothly – a trend that seems unlikely to change anytime soon – china has now set its sights on another goal : expanding its political influence in the region and beyond .
there is little question , however , about which american candidate putin would like to see in the white house . in remarks following the press conference , he praised trump as “ a very colorful , talented person ” and the “ absolute leader of the presidential race . ” both men certainly deserve each other . both are consummate propagandists and performers , and both are also being prepared . and both are prepared – even eager – to bully , harangue , and lie to get ahead .
the first was to adopt the center right ’s agenda and pursue labor-market , tax , and investment policies that would “ adapt ” france to “ capitalist ” globalization . somewhat surprisingly , this is the route that he initially chose , quickly becoming the darling of the business-oriented international press . the other avenue would have required macron to build on the pre-existing but vague conception of left-wing internationalism . in practice , that would mean pursuing policies to help the middle class , while updating an obsolete center-left program to account for the effects of disruptive technologies and business models . as the economist dani rodrik has long argued , more globalization requires a larger state to compensate those displaced by free trade , capital-account liberalization , and so forth .
in a benign scenario , people will club together in different states on the basis of their preferences for big or small government , public or private provision of services , and international cooperation or isolationism . mick mulvaney , trump ’s budget director , has himself made the case . “ if you live in a state that wants to mandate maternity coverage for everyone , including 60-year-old women , that ’s fine , ” and if you do n’t , “ then you can figure out a way to change the state you live in ” or alter “ state legislatures and state laws , ” in mulvaney ’s words . “ why look to the federal government to try and fix our local problems ? ” in a vindictive scenario , by contrast , trump and congress could seek to limit progressive states ’ rights .
for years , over-reliance on traditional fuels discouraged investment in clean power technologies , despite the fact that both countries are innovators in green industries , such as energy storage and smart grids . while 22 % of south korea ’s energy needs and 14 % of taiwan ’s are met with nuclear power , those ratios are now set to drop dramatically . blueprints are still formulated , but taken together the two countries ’ commitments mark a major shift in regional energy planning toward greener , cleaner technologies . moreover , they will pave the way for increased investment in the “ power installations , ” placing their countries on a new competitive footing in the regional marketplace . south korea ’s strategy calls for a phased withdrawal from the nuclear industry through non-renewal of existing licenses and bans on future plants .
under heavy pressure from america , china ’s leaders agreed in principle to float the renminbi , but refuse to say when . a floating currency is inevitable because china liberalizes its capital market and eliminates restrictions on international capital movements ; otherwise , china would have to surrender control over its money supply and interest rates to the us . yet china ’s rulers are right to postpone the decision to float . the chinese can delay , but they can not hide from a fundamental economic law : if the two countries ’ exchange rate is fixed and capital flows are unrestricted , the economically dominant one will exercise control over other countries ’ monetary policies . because the dollar is the world ’s dominant reserve currency , and america ’s fed controls the supply of us dollars , as long as china sticks to a fixed exchange rate , it can not control its own money supply .
so we are in a race , and we are in a race , and we are all at all . can we turn the tap to zero net emissions before the bathtub hits a level that takes us above the 2ºc threshold set in paris ? in fact , even that level may not be low enough . as the paris agreement recognizes , many scientists believe that warming above 1.5 ºc is risky , and that adaptation to it will be extremely expensive , especially for developing countries and island states . the good news is that if we somehow stopped all emissions today , temperatures would continue to rise only a decade or so before stabilizing .
indeed , no one has any idea of the consequences , both for the uk in the global trading system or the effect on domestic political stability . i fear that this will not be a fairly picture . mind you , citizens of the west are blessed to live in times of peace : changing circumstances and priorities can be addressed through democratic processes , instead of foreign and civil wars . but what , exactly , is the fair , democratic process for making irreversible , nation-defining decisions ? is it really enough to get 52 % to vote for a breakup on a rainy day ?
defense spending is 1.6 % of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy , and 1.5 % in spain ; only france and the uk reach 3 % . but the debate about the defense commitment to gdp spent on the military is insufficient , because there are economies of scale in defense spending . so one would expect smaller countries to spend proportionally more on defense than larger ones . instead , today america alone spends more than most of its nato allies combined , and defense spending in the us is likely to increase even more in the years to come . security and global influence are not the only benefits that come through military spending .
new york – at the 73rd session of the united nations general assembly this month , there was a widespread sense of foreboding among world leaders . anxiety went beyond standard concerns about what us president donald trump would say , do , or tweet . even before the summit began , europeans , canadians , mexicans , south koreans , and japanese were consulting in earnest about the need for a new alliance to save the multilateral system . in the late 1960s , former us secretary of state dean acheson looked back at the immediate post-war era , and felt as though he was “ present at the creation ” of a new world based on shared rules and multilateral institutions . but at the unga this year , many attendees felt as though they were present at the destruction of that world .
in the medium term , the world abounds with tensions and potential crises that america ’s leadership is likely to be indispensable to resolving . as events over the last two weeks in egypt have demonstrated all too vividly , the arab awakening still has only its first act in many countries . indeed , democracy is fragile , at best , across north africa ; and , in the middle east , jordan , the palestinian territories , kuwait , and saudi arabia have only begun to feel ripple in the tidal wave sweeping the region . bahrain remains a flashpoint ; iraq is deeply unstable ; and the simmering conflict between iran and israel could flare up anytime soon . even when the us is not on the front lines , it has played a vital role in behind-the-scenes diplomacy , nudging wary rivals closer to one another to creating a united opposition , and working with regional leaders like turkey , egypt , and saudi arabia to broker deals .
in today ’s germany , because no one with decisive power in business , finance , or government experienced war , the european project is no longer viewed as conditioning europe ’s collective future . these new leaders envision europe only as a trading regime . meanwhile , german diplomacy actively re-builds the country ’s economic and cultural spheres of influence , and not only in eastern europe . the impact of this lost european perspective became clear in the fall of 2008 , when , in the aftermath of the sub-prime crisis and the failure of lehman brothers , german chancellor angela merkel ’s first impulse was nationalistic and wholly anti-european . there would be no common european plan to deal with the crisis , and no call for public funds .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . such shortcomings are especially apparent in poland , where a highly centralized political system creates a pernicious winner-take-all dynamic .
when is a free-trade agreement bad ? when the treaty ’s underlying purpose is neither trade nor freedom . such a pact – calling for a “ united economic space ” – is now entering russia , ukraine , kazakhstan , and belarus . on the surface , a “ united economic space ” sounds like something to applaud . but , sadly , the treaty will only entrench postcommunism ’s corrupt and criminal business practices , not increase trade or prosperity .
the ascent of ennahda ( renaissance ) , the leading islamist party , is less a reflection of latent ideological support among a newly liberated people than it is a testament to the party ’s remarkable ability to fill the post-revolutionary political vacuum . since january , ennahda has opened more than 200 offices . scores of volunteers are deployed in grassroots electoral campaigning , door-to-door levels . the party ’s imposition of headquarters in tunis symbolize its position as the country ’s most effective political operation by far . while opponents ominously recall the involvement of party cadres in the deadly bombings of tourist targets in 1991 , ennahda has gone to some lengths to appease its critics .
consider the first claim that the dollar ’s status as a reserve currency protects it , because governments around the world need to hold dollars as foreign exchange reserves . the problem is that foreign holdings of dollar securities are no longer primarily “ foreign exchange reserves ” in the traditional sense . in earlier decades , countries held dollars because they needed to have highly liquid and widely accepted currency to bridge the financing gap if their imports exceeded their exports . the obvious candidate for this reserve fund was america ’s treasury bills . but , since the late 1990s , countries like south korea , taiwan , and singapore have accumulated very large volumes of foreign reserves , reflecting both export-driven growth strategies and a desire to avoid a repeat of the speculative currency attacks that triggered the 1997-1998 asian financial crisis .
by bad economics , i mean allowing financial markets to dictate what happens to the real economy . good economics , by contrast , recognizes a government ’s duty to protect its constituents against distress , insecurity , and calamity . it is very hard for liberals to accept that bad politics can produce good economics , and that good politics can produce bad economics . and yet hungary offers a clear example . under prime minister viktor orbán , the country has become increasingly authoritarian .
countries and organizations are already mobilizing , and they are already mobilizing . the united nations food and agriculture organization argues that rising food prices could lead to increasing global conflicts . the davos world economic forum ranks food insecurity as a major risk to humanity . the world bank has forcefully emphasized the importance of agriculture to begin economic expansion and break the cycle of poverty . un secretary ban ki-moon has created a working group to define a common plan for action , and france ’s president nicolas sarkozy has proposed a global partnership for food .
and yet negative bond yields are also occurring in countries and regions where the currency depreciates and is likely to depreciate further , including germany , other parts of the eurozone core , and japan . so why are investors holding such assets ? many long-term investors , like insurance companies and pension funds , have no alternative , because they are required to hold safer bonds . of course , negative returns make their balance sheets shakier : a defined-benefit pension plan needs positive returns to break even , and when most of its assets yield negative nominal returns , such outcomes become increasingly difficult to achieve . but , given such investors ’ long-term liabilities ( claims and benefits ) , their mandates are to invest mostly in bonds that are less risky than stocks or other volatile assets .
in his first year and a half in office , macron started to tackle these problems , and succeeded in delivering a budget in line with eu deficit rules . the problem is that in pursuing these reforms , macron abandoned his core center-left constituency . step by step , his reforms seemed consistently to benefit the rich . and so , when his government announced a tax on diesel fuel , middle - and working-class commuters took to the streets . with polls showing that around 70 % of french support for the yellow vest protesters , macron was forced to retreat .
as it stands , perhaps the biggest barriers to international cooperation are political . in recent years , there has been an intensifying backlash against international cooperation , rooted partly in fears – stoked by populist political leaders in many countries – that transnational “ elites ” are attempting to impose “ globalism ” : an “ ideology that prioritizes the neoliberal global order over national interests . ” but perspectives that refute this narrative seem to be gaining ground . many world leaders believe that western countries have squandered their influence over the international system by intervening politically and militarily in others ’ affairs without any clear endgame . some also argue that the global elite has merely pretended to pursue socioeconomic change , while actually maintaining a status quo that has benefited them .
by raising inflation , the fed would turn real interest rates seriously negative , thereby encouraging thrifty households to spend rather than save . with rising demand , firms would hire , and all would be well . this is a different logic from the one calling for inflation as a way to reduce long-term debt ( at the expense of investors ) , but it has equally serious weaknesses . first , while low rates might stimulate spending if credit were easy , it is not at all clear that traditional savers today would go out and spend . think of the soon-to-retire office worker .
though the g-8 made a clear promise , there was no plan on how to fulfill it ; indeed , there were clear instructions that no such plan would have been made . the g-8 is now reaping the consequences of its inaction . for the first year after the gleneagles meeting , aid numbers were padded by misleading accounting for debt cancellation operations . with those debt cancellation operations largely completed , the data are now revealing stark truths : development aid to africa and poor countries is more generally stagnant , contrary to all the promises that were made . specifically , between 2005 and 2006 , overall aid to africa , excluding debt-cancellation operations , increased by a meager 2 % .
perhaps the greatest grievances of the last year have been inequality . but , at the global level , inequality is falling . and while inequality has risen within some advanced economies , the increase has not been particularly dramatic , and it remains at reasonable levels . but that is not what the average citizen sees . according to the european bank for reconstruction and development ’s new transition report , based on 2015-2016 life in the transition survey produced by the world bank and ebrd ( where i am chief economist ) , the perceived rise in inequality far exceeds the reality described by official data , typically based on household surveys .
washington , dc – the united states federal reserve system is one of the world ’s most powerful governmental organizations in history . america ’s central bank has control over the supply of dollars , and it is currently exerts great influence over interest rates , both for short-term and long-term borrowing . and , though the fed was partly responsible for the regulatory failures that led to the global economy ’s near-meltdown in 2008-2009 , post-crisis reform left it with even greater authority and more responsibility for overseeing the financial system . that is a worrying outcome , because senior fed officials seem to have slipped back into their pre-2008 ways , ignoring concerns about dangerous financial-sector behavior – even when those concerns are expressed by members of the american senate banking committee . this is not only unfortunate ; it is also dangerous , because the fed ’s political position is far more precarious than its leadership seems to realize .
more by luck than wisdom , this catastrophic situation has not developed . unless a global catastrophe emerges – a meteorite impact , world war ii , or pandemic – humanity will remain a major environmental force for many millennia . as a result , scientists and engineers face daunting challenges during the anthropocene era : to guide us toward environmentally sustainable management . this will require appropriate human behavior at all levels , and may well involve internationally accepted , large-scale geo-engineering projects to “ optimize ” the climate . at this stage , however , we are still largely treading on terra incognita .
in all of these cases , cyprus would be half-right . constitutional change is for political leaders a welcome distraction from much more change-resistant issues of social policy . but there are at least two exceptions to this suspicion . one is the establishment of democracy and the rule of law in countries that have recently emerged from dictatorship . the process requires constitution making often complex and painful .
this is undermining corporate profitability , spurring companies to deleverage and deleverage , fueling further declines in ppi . the enduring importance of real-estate investment to china ’s economic growth is reflected in trends from the first quarter of this year . annual gdp growth of 6.7 % , despite being the slowest rate for any quarter in seven years , has exceeded market expectations . and it has been driven partly by unforeseen growth in real-estate investment , to 6 % . this is not to say that what china needs is more real-estate investment .
but that does not mean that trump skeptics can just sit back and wait for him to be proven wrong , because it is possible that in the first year the reported us trade deficit will narrow even as the true us trade deficit widens . all of this comes down to “ transfer pricing ” – multinational corporations use to place value on cross-border trade in inputs among their subsidiaries . consider the american pharmaceutical company , which establishes a plant in iran . the iranian affiliate imports some inputs ( most notably , the intellectual property represented by the us drug patent ) assembles a product in iran , and exports it back to the us . in value-added terms , the us patent makes the largest contribution .
the recommendations included increasing affordable transportation to family-planning facilities , expanding access to modern contraception ( including emergency contraception ) , increasing the availability of sex education , and developing strategies to reduce the stigma of abortion reduction . and yet , in the us , none of these changes will come easily . if countries like south africa ever escape republican administrations ’ assault on reproductive freedom , new strategies are needed to fight the global gag rule . solutions start at home , which is why developing countries need to start moving away from conditional aid that restricts health-care providers ’ ability to work according to local laws . together with responsible global partners , local ngos must find new support for programs that educate women about their rights and provide access to safe abortion services .
we want technology firms to play a central role in providing new ideas and disruptive thinking . we want firms that already offer refugees online education , internet access , and hardware to drive education provision to displaced and isolated girls and boys . in establishing this fund , we are ending the formulaic crisis response era . it was gandhi ’s belief that reflection could motivate action by recalibrating our moral compass . what makes this fund unique is not the series of new benchmarks it sets .
civil society energized the maidan revolution that ousted former president viktor yanukovych , but in turmoil . debate over association agreements with the european union , together with the russian-backed rebellion in the east , stoked tensions over distinctions that previously played little or no role in people ’s lives . but , since the october parliamentary elections , ukraine has begun pulling itself together . russia ’s intervention has to some extent backfired , strengthening support for a european orientation . eastern ukraine may have voted differently from the rest of the country , but the overwhelming majority of voters have emerged in favor of europe .
regulators are now keenly focused on the implications of brexit , which will require complex arrangements to manage the new relationship between london and the eurozone . the top priority for the european central bank must be to preserve the integrity of the eu banking union , which is under pressure from both brexit and the crisis gripping italy ’s banks . against this backdrop , it will be a challenge to retain the primacy of global standards , and to secure continued buy-in to the basel process . the bank for international settlements ’ new general manager , agustín carstens , a former governor of mexico ’s central bank , will have a key role to play , as will whoever replaces mark carney ( the bank of england ’s current governor ) next year as chairman of the fsb . it is likely , too , that a new chair of the basel committee will soon emerge .
supervision , more transparency in financial markets , an effective early-warning system for financial crises , and improved international policy coordination . the crisis made it clear that national supervision of banks that operate globally is insufficient . regulatory gaps have created spillover effects for banks that operate globally . crisis resolution mechanisms for banks operating globally have clearly been required . international regulatory coordination is clearly required .
europe can face down threats of extraterritorial sanctions in partnership with china , india , and russia . trade with iran can easily be denominated in euros , renminbi , rupee and rubles , avoiding american banks . oil-for-goods trade can be accomplished through a euro-clearing mechanism like the us . in fact , america ’s extraterritorial sanctions are not a credible long-term threat . if the us were to implement them against most of the rest of the world , the damage to america ’s economy , the dollar , the us stock market , and american leadership would be irreparable .
countries would be well advised not to include pari passu clauses in future debt contracts , at least without specifying more fully what is intended . such contracts should also include collective-action clauses , which make it impossible for vulture funds to hold up debt restructuring . when a sufficient share of creditors agree to a restructuring plan ( in argentina ’s case , holders of more than 90 % of the country ’s debt did ) , others can be forced to go along . the international monetary fund , the american department of justice , and anti-poverty ngos all joined in opposing vulture funds are revealing . but so , too , is the court ’s decision , which apparently assigned little weight to their arguments .
knowing what to do in this increasingly complex and volatile situation is the easy part : look at multilateral consultation policy plans and “ just do it . ” as the american treasury ’s recent semiannual report to the american congress noted , for china , these plans are to “ rebalance its economy : boost domestic demand and consumption-led growth ; reforming its financial system ; and achieve greater exchange-rate flexibility . indeed , rebalancing the pattern of growth is central to china ’s leadership . ” but expanding demand and allowing real effective exchange-rate appreciation in china will not be enough unless other countries do their part . oil exporters must increase fiscal spending further ; japan and the european union must trigger higher growth through structural reforms ; and the us must implement concrete measures to sustain higher savings .
washington , dc – gross domestic product has been the ultimate measure of the economy ’s welfare for more than 80 years . but , as the world ’s economies become increasingly complex and technology-focused , economists increasingly question gdp ’s usefulness as gauge the health of the economy , with some arguing for radically new approaches . africa ’s experience shows why such an approach is badly needed . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
the notion that he should not take steps to protect his interests is ideological “ disguised ” as objectivity , and lends credence to putin ’s claims that the west is out to get him . do n’t get me wrong : despite its imperfections , the us remains a positive force in the world . indeed , it may well be the only strongly positive force , along with the european union , which should stop squabbling and start curtailing megalomaniacal and illiberal leaders like hungary ’s putin-infatuated prime minister , viktor orbán . moreover , the prospect that their new president is in putin ’s pocket should certainly be worrying to americans . and the west ’s policies toward russia – economic sanctions or military exercises in border countries like poland – are not necessarily wrong .
fortunately , there are encouraging signs that the commitment will be honored . but larger financial flows are needed , particularly from the private sector . according to the oecd and the united nations climate policy initiative , developed countries collectively mobilized $ 52.2 billion in 2013 , and $ 61.8 billion in 2014 to help poor countries reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and build resilience against the effects of climate change that can no longer be avoided . while it is important to note that this figure is only an estimate , it represents a preliminary but credible indicator of climate finance , based on information provided by developed countries . if one assumes greater leverage for private-sector investment , the figure would be higher .
first among such sources of uncertainty is the global economy : will volatility and imbalances lead to collapse , or will greater multipolarity underpin greater resilience ? similarly , will governments and institutions adapt fast enough to harness change ? moreover , while interstate conflict has been declining , intrastate conflict fueled by youthful populations , identity politics , and scarce resources will continue to plague some regions like the middle east , south asia , and africa . and that leads to yet another potentially game-changing issue : whether regional instability remains contained or fuels global insecurity . then there is a set of questions concerning the impact of new technologies .
the irony , however , is that the us exercised greater control over the iraqi oil sector under the un 's pre-war " oil-for-food program " ( in which the un , not saddam hussein , determined the level of iraqi oil sales abroad ) than it will in any future democratic iraq . if the bush administration sought stable , secure , diverse , and cheap oil supplies , it could simply lift embargos on libya , iran , iraq , and sudan and let oil gush . but america 's interest in iraqi oil was driven either by economics or energy policy . the bush administration recognized that iraqi oil , above all , is a critical geopolitical asset . whoever controls iraqi oil controls iraq .
moreover , even if china becomes the world ’s largest economy , say , 2018 , americans would still be far richer than the chinese , with per capita gdp in america four times higher than in china . to be sure , income inequality and social injustice are the concomitant of capitalist culture throughout the west . but challengers like china and india are in no position to preach . compared to indian capitalism , capitalism ’s ethical failures elsewhere look especially benign . a hundred oligarchs in india hold assets equivalent to 25 % of gdp , while 800 million of their compatriots survive on less than a dollar a day .
typically , this principle implies that marginal tax rates should be similar at different levels of labor income , for different kinds of consumption , outlays today versus tomorrow , and so forth . from this perspective , a shortcoming of america ’s individual income-tax system is that marginal tax rates are high at the bottom ( owing to the testing of welfare programs ) and the top ( owing to graduated-rate structure ) . thus , since 2009 , the government has moved in the wrong direction , sharply raising marginal tax rates at the bottom ( by dramatically increasing transfer programs ) , and , more recently , at the top ( by raising tax rates on the rich ) . one of the most efficient tax-raising methods is america ’s payroll tax , for which the marginal tax rate is close to the average rate ( because deductions are absent and there is little graduation in the rate structure ) . cutting payroll tax rates in 2011-2012 and making rate schedules more graduated ( on the medicare side ) were mistakes from the standpoint of efficient taxation .
so long as developing countries remain integrated into the global economy – and do not take measures to restrain the impact of international prices on home prices – domestic rice prices and other grains are bound to rise markedly when international prices do . for many developing countries , high oil and food prices represent a triple threat : not only do importing countries have to pay more for grain , they must pay more to bring it to their countries , and still deliver it to consumers who may live a long distance from ports . raising interest rates can reduce aggregate demand , which can slow the economy and tame the rise in prices of some goods and services , especially non-traded goods and services . but , unless taken to intolerable levels , these measures by themselves can not bring inflation down targeted levels . for example , even if global energy and food prices rise at a more moderate rate than they are now – for example , 20 % per year – and get reflected in domestic prices , bringing the overall inflation rate to , say , 3 % would require a markedly
thus , they do not formally give up anything . leaders that brought on failure , and groups that did not triumph , become heroes for being able to claim that they courageously fought the enemy without being crushed . the important points for them are that they gained revenge by inflicting damage , showed that they were real men , did not buckle under , and survived . such a pattern is a formula for endless conflict and endless defeat . yet defeats do not force new attitudes , policies , or leaders .
fearful pronouncements about the rise of incipient ( or actual ) fascism are misplaced . basic institutions of american governance have survived more challenges than any that trump may pose . although america in 2017 is deeply divided , americans remain committed to the central tenets of democracy : free , fair , and regular elections , and protection of political , religious , and economic liberty . trump is unlikely to attempt to overturn any of them ; and , even if he does try , he will fail . when he leaves office , the us will essentially be what it was when it entered : the world ’s most powerful democracy .
certain professional organizations emphasize the need to obtain patient consent even if tissue has already been removed from the patient ’s body . today , there are brain tissue banks , breast tissue banks , blood banks , umbilical cord banks , dna banks , and tissue repositories for studying various diseases . virtually all of us have tissue on file somewhere . who should have access to these samples ? for what purposes can they be used ?
with soft power , however , empowered followers ’ energies reinforce leaders . leadership is broadly distributed throughout healthy democracies , and all citizens need to learn more about what makes good and bad leaders . potential leaders , in turn , can learn more about the sources and limits of emotional iq ’s soft-power skills , vision and communication , as well as hard-power political and organizational skills . they also need to understand better the nature of contextual intelligence they will need to educate their hunches and sustain smart power strategies . most important , in today ’s age of globalization , revolutionary information technology , and broadened participation , citizens in democracies must learn more about the nature and limits of new leadership demands .
polisario front fought a war with morocco until 1991 , when the un brokered a ceasefire agreement . that agreement was intended to set the stage for a referendum on independence in western sahara the following year – a democratic solution . but morocco has blocked this from ever taking place . morocco has also repeatedly obstructed progress toward further negotiations . it has done so in defiance of the un security council , even going so far as to bar the un ’s special envoy from traveling to the region to set the stage for talks .
moreover , both candidates embody continuity – with chirac ’s gaullist side for sarkozy and françois mitterrand for royal – as much as rupture . royal openly claims mitterand ’s legacy as she searches for legitimacy , while sarkozy ’s rejection of chirac ’s legacy has more to do with form than substance . to a large extent , sarkozy can be seen as chirac with more , whereas royal is clearly mitterrand with less . when voters decide in the spring of 2007 , their choice may depend more on negative than positive considerations , as it did in 2002 , when chirac faced odious nationalist jean-marie le pen in the second round . as in 2002 , the winner next year will be whomever the electorate dislikes or fears less .
with obama unwilling – or unable , owing to rising political partisanship at home – to take the lead in resolving crises like those in egypt , libya , and syria , challengers to american primacy took heart in 2014 , and america ’s allies took the right . global power must be allocated somewhere ; if the us does not fill its leading role on the international stage , an understudy would have to step in . but china ’s recent shift away from muscle-flexing and its confluence of us-led interests offers hope that it will not fuel large-scale regional instability this year . indeed , china withdrew its jumbo oil platform from the waters of the disputed paracel islands last july , sending surveillance ships to the senkaku islands less frequently . chinese officials have also become more willing to discuss the creation of a code of conduct for the south china sea .
labor-force participation in the us has fallen to levels not seen since women began entering the labor market in large numbers . most americans ’ income and wealth levels are below their levels long before the crisis . indeed , a typical full-time male worker ’s income is lower than it was four decades ago . yes , the us has done some things to improve financial markets . some of the increases in capital requirements have been raised – but far short of what is needed .
the republican presidential campaign adds another element of uncertainty . the two leading candidates for the party ’s nomination , donald trump and ted cruz , both say they would tear up iran ’s nuclear deal if elected . it is worth recalling the outcome of president george w. bush ’s analogous decision to tear up bill clinton ’s “ framework agreement ” with north korea : the kim regime promptly and predictably developed a nuclear bomb . whether the us will continue to lead the world remains unclear . what is clear is that american politics , not global developments , will be the main determinant .
president vladimir voronin later granted amnesty detainees . nevertheless , many remain in detention and voronin continue hurl accusations at the opposition and romania of organizing coup d’état . legal proceedings have been opened against opposition parties . restoring stability and a fair democratic system to moldova is important , first and foremost because moldovans deserve a government that is accountable . stability is also important because the country borders romania , a member of the european union .
on the eve of their downfall , a few arab autocrats were actually lauded by the world bank and the international monetary fund for their supposed success in adopting the “ right ” economic policies . the world bank ’s subsequent mea culpa is a clear indication that there may have been a problem with the policies they prescribed for the arab ancien régimes . this raises a raft of other questions . were economists focused on the wrong indicators ? were they misled by false inferences ?
while china did decide to allow the rmb to appreciate gradually after that , it relied on capital controls to prevent hot money from flowing in . controls are leaky , to be sure , but they have worked ( so far ) , which is why china has effectively maintained macroeconomic stability over the years . the key objective of china ’s capital controls is to prevent non-residents from holding domestic rmb-denominated assets unrelated to trade and long-term capital flows . but rmb internationalization encourages non-residents to hold more rmbs and rmb-denominated assets . as rmb internationalization , rmb deposits held by hong kong residents have reached rmb370 billion ( $ 57 billion ) , and the amount can reach rmb1 trillion by the end of the year .
but it is more than that . democracy is being directly threatened in a country where it should have deepest cultural and political roots . trump does not just want to avoid repeating past policies , as he puts it . he and his supporters have also made aim at fundamental institutions upon which american democracy is based , including courts , legislative branch , independent media , and more . the nineteenth-century prussian military officer and theorist carl von clausewitz spoke presciently about the age of total war that would arrive less than a century after his death .
in short , structural reforms alone can not be relied upon to stimulate growth in 2012 . instead , the immediate focus needs to be on boosting investment and exports in economies with current-account deficits – such as france , italy , and spain ( and the united kingdom ) – and stimulating consumption in surplus countries like germany and the netherlands . the european central bank has acted decisively to prop up european banks ; now it needs to support the real economy , too . while official interest rates are just 1 % , solvent sovereigns like spain pay more than 5 % to borrow for ten years , while creditworthy businesses in italy can borrow only at punitive rates , if at all . so the ecb should do more to block the transmission mechanism for monetary policy ; the european banking authority should discourage excessive deleveraging by insisting that banks raise specific capital amounts rather than hit a uniform 9 % ratio ; and , where necessary , national governments should provide guarantees for bank lending to small and medium-size enterprises .
during prime minister aznar ’s first term , his popular party privatized most public-sector firms and deregulated many service sectors . his new government vows to continue eliminating the public deficit and lowering unemployment . it also promises to cut income taxes , put the country ’s social security system on firmer footing , and cut costs for shedding labor . introducing real competition in energy and telecoms , lacking in the privatization process until now , is also pledged . aznar ’s program is sensible yet ambitious .
cambridge : the internet now pervades every area of business life ; trump in business activity over the internet astounds . an important new report by the american commerce department , “ the emerging digital economy ” report suggests that the internet is reshaping not only american business , but the world economy . in 1994 , three million people , mostly americans , used the internet . in 1998 , 100 million people worldwide are connected . as recently as january 1995 , there were around 27,000 internet business addresses .
there is no reliable scientific evidence that gm foods cause illness , despite receiving far more intense scrutiny than more “ natural ” foods . ( natural foods can also pose health risks , as has been shown recently by studies establishing that a popular type of cinnamon can cause liver damage . ) although cross-pollination between gm crops and wild plants can occur , so far no new superweeds have emerged . we should be pleased about that – and perhaps the regulations introduced in response to concerns expressed by environmental organizations have played a role in this outcome . environmental and consumer health regulations should be maintained .
virus protection and virus development constitute an uneven arms race , and it is the most important to be a virus that is the only one . a virus can be just a few hundred lines of computer code , compared to hundreds of thousands of lines for anti-virus programs that must be designed to detect a wide class of enemies . we are told not to worry about large-scale cyber meltdowns , because none has occurred , and governments remain vigilant . unfortunately , another lesson of the financial crisis is that most policymakers are congenitally incapable of making difficult choices until risks materialize . let us hope that we are lucky for some time .
these migrant workers ’ taxes would help developed countries fund services for the elderly , and their remittances would help their home countries . this approach has enormous potential benefits . indeed , a modest 3 % increase in developed-country labor-force participation would provide a larger economic boost than eliminating all remaining trade barriers . moreover , every dollar invested in this initiative would generate nearly $ 50 in returns , making it an exceptionally efficient use of scarce resources . these impressive figures emerged from a comprehensive analysis conducted by a team of top economists tasked with my think tank , the copenhagen consensus center , with assessing possible population-related targets to identify the best global investment .
wellington – paracetamol ( known as acetaminophen in the united states ) is one of the most commonly used drugs in the world . it is the preferred medication for relieving fever and pain , owing to its safety profile . ten years ago , however , a hypothesis was proposed that paracetamol ’s use of paracetamol could increase the risk of developing asthma . it was suggested that a change from aspirin to paracetamol among children in the us during the 1980 ’s may have contributed to the increased prevalence of childhood asthma observed during this period . the substitution of paracetamol for aspirin , researchers proposed , may have led to an enhanced allergic immune response , thereby increasing susceptibility to asthma and other allergic disorders . since then , a number of epidemiological studies have reported an association between asthma and exposure to paracetamol in womb , childhood , and adulthood . these studies have led to the suggestion that paracetamol ’s use may represent an important
today , the country is believed to have about 60 working astronomers , more than half of all astronomers working in africa . “ south africa is the jewel of african astronomy , ” says charles mcgruder , a professor at the department of physics and astronomy at western kentucky university . in a country that is deeply divided economically , “ what on earth is the benefit of the poor and the downtrodden of deep space research ? ” asks physicist harold annegarn , a professor at johannesburg university . “ the answer , ” he says , “ is partly that by supporting a thriving top-level intellectual community , we can train our next generation of intellectuals . ” mcgruder , who works closely with african astronomers , agrees that a region ’s space program is critical to raising careers in science and engineering in a part of the world where the most educated people still go to finance or governance .
because neither banks nor investors had enough money to plough into networked mega-firms , the mega-bank emerged in the form of a global cartel of banks and shadowy funds , each with its own shareholders . unprecedented new debt was thus created to transfer value to the present , in the hope of profiting sufficiently to repay the future . mega-finance , mega-equity , mega-pension funds , and mega-financial crises were the logical outcome . the crashes of 1929 and 2008 , the unstoppable rise of big tech , and all the other ingredients of today ’s discontent with capitalism , became inescapable . in this system , calls for gentler capitalism are mere fads – especially in the post-2008 reality that confirmed total control over society through mega-firms and mega-banks .
a few years ago , forecasters were confident that global imbalances would reemerge once the crisis passed . that now seems unlikely : neither the us nor china is returning to its pre-crisis growth rate or spending pattern . nor are earlier trade balances about to reemerge . america ’s trade position will be strengthened by the shale-gas revolution , which promises energy self-sufficiency and , by raising productivity , which auger further reshoring of manufacturing production . for their part , emerging markets have learned that their export surpluses are no guarantee of rapid growth .
both governments have cracked down on nongovernmental organizations and targeted or co-opted media . still , in what remains of hungary ’s free press , one can sometimes find credible news alleging that prime minister viktor orbán and his cronies pillage eu funds to benefit themselves , their families , and their business associates . in fact , orbán ’s government has been subject to a number of investigations by the european anti-fraud office . despite such behavior , orbán was re-elected earlier this month , and his fidesz party , in alliance with the christian democrats , now holds a two-thirds parliamentary majority – enough to amend the constitution . during the election campaign , orbán ’s government saturated the country in xenophobic , anti-semitic propaganda .
following these discussions , the american national institutes of health ( nih ) promulgated guidelines that allow the government to use stem-cell research funds , but in their current form prohibit the ally-funded investigators from creating new stem cell lines . that restriction requires that stem cell lines be obtained only from privately-funded or commercial sources that follow the protocols mandated by the guidelines . i believe that restricting the use of government funding to create stem cells , though politically prudent , imposes substantial scientific handicaps . we know that a variety of poorly understood factors cause embryonic stem cells to lose capacity to differentiate themselves into all possible cell types . this loss of differentiation capacity can be caused by the particular mode in which stem cells are derived , conditions that surround their growth , and other variables for handling .
yet , far from accepting these contributions , the plan would largely cut regulators . for example , the plan would bar regulators from initiating a mega-bank bankruptcy , leaving it to the discretion of the bank ’s own managers . in the nonfinancial sector , failing companies often wait too long before they declare bankruptcy , so creditors may step in to do some of the pressure , potentially even forcing a failed firm to bankruptcy . while bank regulators have the tools to put pressure on banks similarly , their most effective one is the power to initiate bankruptcy when it is best for the economy . taking this tool away could have severe adverse consequences .
copenhagen – political rhetoric has shifted away from the need to respond to the “ generational challenge ” of climate change . investment in alternative energy technologies like solar and wind is no longer peddled on environmental grounds . instead , we are told of purported economic payoffs , first and foremost , the promise of so-called “ green jobs . ” unfortunately , that does not measure up to economic reality . the copenhagen consensus center asked gürcan gülen , a senior energy economist at the center for energy economics , bureau of economic geology at texas university at austin , to assess the “ state of science ” in defining , measuring , and predicting the creation of green jobs .
it is regrettable , however , that the treaty ’s 28 articles are very vague . it is absolutely essential that this text be accompanied by a new method , tailored to the contemporary world in which we live – a world in which politics no longer happens in muffled debates about ministerial meetings or through convoluted communiqués . genuine engagement by civil society is the only way to stimulate two struggling governments and overcome their conservatism . after all , we have entered an era in which speed , even more than money , determines the course of events , and where the capacity for experimentation across all sectors is an essential factor for success . in today ’s winner-takes-all economy , the bulk of newly created wealth accrues to those who innovate the fastest .
somaliland and ethiopia , for example , are collaborating on the construction of a gas-export pipeline from ethiopia ’s ogaden region , promising new jobs and incomes for people in one of the world ’s poorest and least developed parts . although there is much that we can and will do to help ourselves , the horn of africa can still benefit from international assistance . but the international community needs to do more than provide food and medicine to the victims of famine and drought . as it stands , we need pro-growth investments that will help to provide jobs for our peoples and products and resources for the world . that means focusing on promoting market economies and stable government , rather than subsidizing failure and failed states .
trento – the most significant result of the recent european parliament election is neither the conservatives nor the social democrats have lost seats to liberals and greens , nor the far-right nationalists have gained less than anticipated . it is that citizens voted in much larger numbers than anyone expected to do . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
we know that hitler had no intention of destroying every last jewish man , woman and child . even though mass killings are not rare in history , hitler ’s extermination plan was , if not unique , certainly highly unusual . laudable efforts to prevent such a thing from recurring , however , have had unfortunate consequences . for , in our zeal to learn lessons from history , we often learn wrong ones or distort history towards dubious ends . in a sense , the killings at srebrenica were also affected by memories of world war ii .
democratic principles call for organizing society in such a way that both values can be realized to the greatest possible extent . but the path for particularistic action that does not undermine the liberty and equality of all citizens is narrow . this is an intrinsic paradox to democracy , and it is politicians ’ duty to deal with the tensions that it gives rise . yet it is also citizens ’ duty to preserve formal , political meaning of citizenship as state intervention broadens to ensure that everyone is well . this might restrict political freedom in the name of greater equality .
do these figures reflect alarming imbalances , or are they the usual signs of a boom ? if america ’s growth rate in the coming decades remains what it has been over the last thirty years , the answer is simple , and terrifying . stock market prices would be far too high . households would behave in totally irresponsible ways . imbalances would be unwarranted , indeed unsustainable .
baverez ’s evidence of degeneration is not as convincing as he believes . for example , he cites draining away industrial jobs as the most glaring evidence of france ’s decline . but deindustrialization is common to all advanced countries . indeed , france does better than most of its rich country ’s rivals , and , unlike germany , the uk , or the us , it retained the same global market share in the industrial sector that it had in the early 1970s . moreover , according to a better measure of comptetitiveness , france ’s foreign investment does very well .
a second lesson that i learned is useful for the eu , which finds itself in a world in which new powers emerge and where all actors from manila to algiers , from doha to libreville , must deal with the challenges of globalization and interdependence on a daily basis . that lesson is that europe has more friends than it has enemies . these friends deserve respect and attention . if italy and the eu failed to grasp the need to work with non-european countries , and make them feel that they were responsible and fully-fledged protagonists , efforts to establish the icc , and so close to declaring a universal moratorium on the death penalty , would fail . i know that this is not exactly a new lesson ; it is what i have in mind when i think of effective multilateralism .
the problem is that empathy for american workers is in tension with empathy for workers in mexico and china , who would be even worse off without jobs than their american counterparts . empathy makes us kinder to people with whom we empathize . that is good , but it also has darker side . in his campaign speeches , trump made use of the tragic murder of kate steinle by an undocumented immigrant to stoke support for his anti-immigrant policies . he did not , of course , offer any similarly vivid portrayals of undocumented immigrants who have rescued strangers ’ lives , even though such cases have been reported .
financial markets and global institutions , with the global reach of the need for a global macro-prudential regulator , not just loosely organized college of supervisors . or it could be that national policymakers do not trust the imf , given that it essentially missed the global financial crisis . if so , the fund needs to win back confidence . this brings us to the imf ’s fourth role , namely by using its bully pulpit to warn against the risks created by large-country policies . small countries are subject to market discipline , as any latvian will tell you .
provided there is no downward pressure on money wages from increased competition for work , the automatic effect of technological innovation is to raise the standard of living . this is friedrich hayek ’s famous argument against any attempt by governments or central banks to stabilize the price level . in any technologically progressive economy , prices should fall except in a few niche markets . businessmen do not need low inflation to expand production . they need only the prospect of more sales .
in other words , while its population is slightly larger than that of china or india , its economy is roughly half the size of china ’s , but larger than japan ’s and more than twice that of india . these divergences help to explain why a number of new acronymic groupings have since carved out n-11 , including mint ( mexico , indonesia , nigeria , turkey ) and fog ( swapping in south korea for nigeria ) . i did not devise these groupings , but i came together , producing a bbc radio documentary on mint countries in 2014 . at any rate , they were in keeping with earlier points i raised ; namely , that by 2010 , mexico , indonesia , south korea , and turkey would account for more than 1 % of global gdp . eight years later , fog economies still have a chance of accounting for around 2-3 % of world gdp .
the brilliance of russian innovation in information warfare was to combine existing technologies with a degree of deniability that remained just below the threshold of overt attack . american intelligence agencies alerted president barack obama of the russian tactics , warning putin of adverse consequences when the two met in september 2016 . but obama was reluctant to call russia publicly or to take strong actions for fear that russia would escalate by attacking election machinery or voting rolls , jeopardizing hillary clinton ’s supposed victory . after the election , obama went public and expelled russian spies and closed some diplomatic facilities , but the weakness of america ’s response undercut any deterrent effect . and because president donald trump treated the issue as a political challenge to the legitimacy of his victory , his administration also failed to take strong steps .
cambridge – this year ’s presidential election campaign in the united states is certainly unique . donald trump has shaken the way for the campaign to run , how a nominee communicates with voters , and the republican party ’s platform , with many of his positions deviating from gop tradition . but , on tax policy , trump has toed the party line – and that is not a good thing . to be sure , any assessment of trump ’s declared positions risks being rendered meaningless within a few hours . he changes his positions with head-spinning frequency , repeatedly disavowing statements soon after making them .
this year alone , sources of discord with russia have multiplied and deepened . russia has withdrawn from a number of nuclear agreements , and the kremlin recently placed iskander missiles , which can transport medium-range nuclear devices , in kaliningrad , near the polish border . moreover , the ukraine crisis is far from resolved : the minsk ceasefire agreements are not being respected , and armed conflict may escalate at any moment . and it seems likely that russia has been intervening directly in western democracies ’ internal politics , using leaks of sensitive documents and funding right-wing populists , from marine le pen to donald trump , who would support the kremlin . then there is russia ’s role in syria .
so it seems that us friends are again – or perhaps just resting before the dispute resumes . but the deeper question remains : why has trump repeatedly attacked america ’s oldest and most reliable ally ? why does he seem to despise the eu so deeply ? why should the us try to undermine europe , rather than seeking closer cooperation to protect its economic and geopolitical interests ? trump ’s approach is particularly striking , given that china ’s rapid emergence as a strategic rival is america ’s main national-security issue .
the report – the product of a few months of debate within the german foreign-policy and security community – identifies germany ’s current values and interests as a commitment to “ human dignity , freedom , democracy , the rule of law , and the international order that is based on universal norms . ” as gauck proclaimed , germany ’s “ overriding strategic objective ” must be the “ preservation and continued adaptation of this order . ” to achieve this objective , germany must become a “ shaping power , ” a state with the capacity to solve problems and resolve conflicts affecting all or part of the international community . the traditional determinants of states ’ power relative to other states – geography , demography , economic heft , and military might , combined with the availability of resources and technological proficiency – remain important ; but they are often insufficient to confer actual influence in international politics . shaping power builds relationships and invests in institutions that enable it to work well with others , and to create and mobilize “ coalitions and networks of like-minded states . ”
and he implicitly condemned gazprom ’s monopolistic policies , promising to help poland diversify its gas supplies . he did not utter a single negative word about the european union , germany , or france . with his performance , trump managed to draw enthusiasm across the political spectrum , not just from the pis-curated crowds , thanks partly to his public greeting of opposition leader lech wałęsa , who was booed by pis supporters and remains a constant target for jarosław kaczyński , poland ’s unelected strongman leader . even radek sikorski , a former foreign minister and outspoken critic of the pis government , concluded : “ i believe that trump ’s speech was very well done . he made strong allusions to poland ’s history , and was very flattering to the us as poles . ”
given that all of this activity occurs in the offshore renminbi market , which is small on scale , and has only limited connections to mainland china ’s financial system – the result of china ’s hesitancy about financial-market liberalization and capital-account convertibility – the situation remains controllable . add to that china ’s other strengths – annual gdp of more than $ 10 trillion , a growth rate of at least four percentage points higher than the global average , $ 3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , a 40 % savings rate , and a massive trade surplus – and an exchange-rate crisis seems highly unlikely . but that does not mean that risks are not at all . on the contrary , china has a strong interest in curbing volatility – and , given china ’s centrality to the global economy , so does the rest of the world . the key will be to get markets and policymakers on the same page .
many polish bishops almost openly declare to their flock : you are supposed to listen , not think or argue . faith is a matter of heart , but it is the stuff of your behavior . if your behavior is good – ie , you do not drink , beat your wife , and , of course , give money to the church – you are fine . even young men study for priesthood receive very weak philosophical training , and that is done purposefully . in a church that boasts saint thomas aquinas , such “ know-nothingism ” seems surprising .
as in all democracies where the rule of law prevails , members of a particular profession , including journalists , are given no form of immunity from these types of serious criminal charges . freedom of expression and press guarantees turkey ’s constitution and articles of agreement . for the past 13 years , the turkish government has proved to be the main guarantor of freedom of expression , especially through its judicial reform . moreover , it should be noted that more than 7,000 newspapers and magazines are published in turkey , with total daily circulation amounting to nearly five million copies . of the country ’s five most widely read newspapers , four favor the opposition over the government .
indeed , there are some signs that the authorities are doing just that in the south china sea . nationalism could become the primary source of legitimacy for the ruling party , which can no longer point to a rapidly rising standard of living . the us and others will need to push back to ensure that china does not act on such a temptation . but these countries would be equally wise to signal to china that it is welcome to take its place among the world ’s leading countries if it acts responsibly and according to the rules set for all . but the bigger policy choices will be china ’s .
in my view , bubbles are social epidemics , fostered by some interpersonal contagion . bubble forms when contagion rates go up for ideas that support a bubble . but contagion rates depend on patterns of thinking that are difficult to judge . large speculative bubbles are rare events , and they are difficult to judge . ( little bubbles , say , individual stocks happen all the time and do not qualify as an answer . )
the century just ended was rough on simplistic ideologies , both of the left and the right . socialism had its day in court and was found wanting . the great communist experiment is practically over ( saving for a few holdouts , such as cuba and north korea ) . the ideology of the right , represented by the washington consensus of neo-liberal , market fundamentalism , was not much more successful , even if its failures often go unacknowledged . the last half-century showed that while development is possible , it is not inevitable .
by collecting or purchasing large voter data sets , campaigns can segment the electorate into strategic clusters using complex algorithms , and then deliver personalized online content to the most susceptible voters . microtargeting has proved most effective not at winning over undecided voters , but at dissuading people from voting altogether . there is strong evidence to suggest that donald trump ’s microtargeting operation in the 2016 american presidential election played a decisive role in key states that he needed to win electoral college . second , with intra-eu migration having risen , there are now nearly 15 million europeans residing in eu countries other than their own . just as populists well know , it is notoriously difficult to vote from abroad in eu elections , owing to difficulties registering in host countries , paucity of polling stations , and overly complex absentee-voting procedures .
at the same time , the rest of the world may not be willing to build up claims against china – at least not on the scale required for a viable reserve currency . even if chinese authorities managed to achieve full convertibility and tradability for the renminbi , there is no guarantee that it would actually become a global reserve currency for the simple reason that reserve currencies are not easily established . indeed , over three centuries of globalization , only three “ currencies ” have dominated : gold , the british pound , and the american dollar . although the deutschemark , the swiss franc , and the japanese yen all offered viable alternatives to the dollar since world war ii , often providing better store of value that is less prone to inflation , none has made lasting inroads into the dollar ’s share of global foreign-exchange reserves . it is also perhaps no accident that global financial centers and reserve currencies have emerged largely in countries where the rule of law is well established , and where foreigners do not face potential legal discrimination .
in considering which lessons of germany ’s turnaround should be applied to other eurozone countries , one must distinguish between what government can do and what remains the responsibility of business , workers , and society at large . the one area where government clearly is in charge is public finance . in 2003 , germany ran a fiscal deficit that was close to 4 % of gdp – perhaps not high by today ’s standards , but higher than the eu average at that time . today , germany has a balanced budget , whereas most other eurozone countries run deficits that are higher than germany ’s ten years ago . the turnaround in germany ’s public finances was due mostly to a reduction in spending .
and if we can no longer rely on laboratory experiments to test causality , we must test it in the real world , using massive volumes of real-time data . this involves moving beyond the closed , the piñtion-and-answer process typical of the lab , and applying our ideas in society , earlier and more frequently than ever before . to see how things work in reality , we must construct living laboratories – that is , communities willing to try new ways of doing things ( blunt , acting as guinea ) . an example of such a living lab is the “ open data city , ” which i launched with trento city in italy , along with telecom italia , telefónica , a research university fondazione bruno kessler , the data-driven design institute , and local companies . importantly , this living lab has the approval and informed consent of all involved ; they understand that they are participating in a gigantic experiment whose goal is to create a better way of living .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . because the eu lacks an army or a central secret service , it must use economic policies to achieve its geopolitical aims . but the way europe ’s policy toolkit works in practice suggests that it is not well suited to exercise power abroad .
canberra – trade-offs are intrinsic to life . we all recognize this from our private budgets . to fix the roof , we may have to accept a less extravagant summer vacation . when we pick cheaper wine , we can splurge dessert trade-offs . likewise , pervade environmental policy : cutting more of one pollutant , for example , leaves fewer resources to address other issues .
london – the british election , called by prime minister theresa may for june 8 , will transform the outlook for britain ’s politics and its relationship with europe , but not necessarily in the way that a vastly increased majority for may ’s conservative party seems to imply . the scorched-earth defeat that conservative euroskeptics expect to inflict on britain ’s internationalist and progressive forces was symbolized by the daily mail headline on may ’s election announcement : “ crush the “ trilemma teurs . ” but june ’s resounding victory could ultimately lead to an even more stunning reversal , like napoleon ’s hubristic march on moscow after having destroyed all opposition in western europe . britain ’s pro-european progressive forces could still snatch victory from jaws of defeat for three related reasons . first , by bringing forward the british election , may effectively extended the deadline for britain ’s withdrawal from the european union from 2019 until 2022 .
elsewhere , of course , this sort of turmoil has democratic safety valves . more than odd to argue that the rest of the world must cope with a built-in advantage for china ’s exporters , because its authoritarian political system can not cope with change . no wonder the impressive premier is thought to favor some political loosening . from east to west , politics seems to operate in a manner that is , to be a diplomatic , sub-optimal . then again , perhaps we are lucky that things are not worse .
princeton – the largest unresolved issue in the european union is mobility . the integration process was intended to make it easier and more attractive for europeans to move from one country to another . according to this vision , the eu ’s inhabitants had the nation to lose and the continent to gain . but some recent election results indicate that they are more worried about losing the nation . ever since the european single act of 1986 removed restrictions on working in other member countries , the continent has been the single labor market – at least in theory .
one option would be greater federalism , which is the only option . common political institutions , accountable to voters across the eurozone , would provide a democratic fiscal counterpart to the ecb , helping cage german power . but rising animosity among eurozone member states , and the erosion of support for european integration in both creditor and debtor countries , means that greater federalism is politically unfeasible – and potentially even dangerous . a better option would be to move toward a more flexible eurozone , in which elected national representatives have a greater say . with the no-bailout rule restored , governments would have more space to pursue countercyclical policies and respond to voters ’ changing priorities .
bogotá , lima , santiago – international economic coordination is as necessary as elusive . during the global financial crisis , the g-20 became the primary forum to agree on basic principles in areas like fiscal-policy responses and the international monetary fund ’s role . by underscoring the need to avoid trade protectionism and other beggar-thy-neighbor policies , it also put some pressure on governments concerning what not to do . in these respects , the g-20 was clearly a step forward . lately , however , as the g-20 has struggled to reconcile divergent national economic interests and recovery strategies , it has been far less successful relative to its initial meetings in washington and london in 2009 .
cambridge – back in august , the business roundtable , comprising america ’s top executive officers , includes the largest companies – with combined annual revenues of more than $ 7 trillion – updated its long-standing statement regarding corporate purpose . it ’s not just shareholders ; ceos say ; their firms must be committed to all stakeholders , including customers , employees , suppliers , communities , and the environment . in fact , shareholders came last on a new list of ceos . and the statement ’s principal author , in his apparent exhilaration , is reported to have said that he felt like thomas jefferson drafting the declaration of independence . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for example , neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus , which is suppressed by acute and chronic stress , is elevated by many antidepressant treatments . still , one of the problems with many current medications is that even with treatments , recurrence of the great depression is very high – around 70-80 % . this suggests that physiological processes underlying depression – those that may also lead to brain structural change – are not being completely arrested , and thus that a new generation of anti-depressant medications is urgently needed . if so , new antidepressants would have to target what appears to be progressive neurodegenerative changes in the brain , which we infer are occurring because recurrence of depression is so high under currently available treatments . lithium , a mood stabilizer , and a neuroprotective agent , has properties that we seek , though its toxicity make it less than ideal .
tiger parenting aims to get children to make the most of what abilities they have , and so seems lean toward the “ clever ” side of the “ smart or happy ” choice . that is also the view of betty ming liu , who blogged in response to chua ’s article : “ parents like amy chua are the reason asian-americans like me are in therapy . ” stanley sue , a professor of psychology at the university of california , davis , has studied suicide , which is particularly common among asian-american women ( in other ethnic groups , more males commit suicide than females ) . he believes that family pressure is a significant factor . chua would reply that reaching a high level of achievement brings great satisfaction , and that the only way to do so is through hard work .
in some cases , they are individuals like president hugo chávez of venezuela ( and other latin american leaders ) , or italy ’s ex-prime minister silvio berlusconi . mostly , they enter the political scene from france , but manage to form a highly personalized grouping , like jörg haider and his austrian freedom party , jean-marie lepen , and his french nationalists , andrzej lepper and his polish peasant party , or prime minister robert fico and his direction in slovakia . many other names could be added . the list tells us two things . one is that a surprising number of populist leaders have managed to get themselves to power in recent years .
fewer and fewer people are bothering to marry , and marriage is regarded as less and less as lifelong union . families have fewer and fewer children , and more and more children are born from wedlock . so one of the “ unintended consequences ” of the bill might be to add welcome recruits to married ranks , even if these recruits are of historically unusual kind . after much soul-searching , i voted for the bill , though without any acute sense that i was striking a blow to freedom . there is a clear status that benefits the minority ; no obvious harm is done to the majority ; and the long-term consequences are unfathomable .
ronald reagan was a master of a well chosen episode . setting the right example is another crucial form of communication for leaders . anticipating a skeptical public reaction when singapore raised government officials ’ salaries in 2007 , prime minister lee hsien loong announced that he would forgo the raise himself . in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis , some business executives voluntarily cut their salaries as a means of communicating concern for their employees and public opinion . during the 2008 presidential election campaign , obama proved to be a talented communicator .
london – current antibiotics are becoming increasingly ineffective , not only in the fight against common illnesses like pneumonia and urinary tract infections , but also at treating a range of infections , such as tuberculosis and malaria , that now risk becoming incurable . with g-7 leaders committed , in a recent joint declaration to tackle “ antimicrobial resistance ” ( amr ) , it is time for the more inclusive g-20 – and for china , as it chairs the group for the first time – to take the fight to the next level . failure to address amr will affect everyone , regardless of their nationality or their country ’s level of development . indeed , by 2050 , ten million people could die as a result of amr , up from around 700,000 today , with china and india each housing some one million sufferers . at that point , an estimated $ 100 trillion in global gdp will already disappear .
sydney – the appointment of five provincial-level chinese communist party chiefs in early december is a reminder that the ascension of china ’s next generation of leaders , who will take power in 2012 , may be the most significant development in chinese politics since deng xiaoping ’s reign began in 1978 . the upcoming generation of leaders will be the first with little or no personal memory of the turmoil and hardship endured during mao zedong years . forgetting that history might doom china to repeat past mistakes ; but , for better or worse , it might also ease constraints and set its leaders free . all five appointees were born after the founding of the people ’s republic in 1949 . two of them , hu chunhua and sun zhengcai , are just 46 years old .
finally , there is the scenario of chaos . for example , cyber superbug destroys networks on which our way of life has come to depend , leading to economic , demographic , and environmental collapse . in this set of possible outcomes , one point stands out : the uncertainty of europe ’s role in the future global system . to prevent inexorable decline , europe must reach clear decisions on three fundamental issues . first , eu leaders must determine how to resolve the eurozone crisis .
but bank deleveraging ( brought about by stiffer regulatory requirements ) , together with negative interest rates , caused financial institutions ’ equity prices to plummet , leading to further pro-cyclical destruction of value through price deflation , rising illiquidity , and crowded exits . past experience taught china ’s real engineers that the only way to escape deflation is through painful structural reforms – not easy money and competitive devaluation . the question is whether america and other reserve-currency countries will share the burden of maintaining global currency stability through an agreement resembling the 1985 plaza accord , in which the five major economies agreed to depreciate the american dollar against the japanese yen and the german deutsche mark . if not , why would asia ’s net lenders , especially china , continue to finance speculation against themselves ? the american dollar is a safe haven , but savers in need of liquidity still lack an impartial lender of last resort .
and a good deal of traffic – with new cars smuggled through tunnels beneath the “ philphi route ” that runs along the egyptian border . but real life is also traumatic and limited . we saw buildings – not just the former hamas headquarters – still in rubble . homes are riddled with bullet holes . there is no electricity for up to eight hours per day .
many central bankers are like the proverbial general who plans to fight the last war . but , unlike backward-looking military strategies , flawed monetary policies produce inevitable damage , not merely worrisome risks . despite having conquered inflation , central bankers continue to fight it , and , as a result , they may fail to confront the latest economic threat – global deflation . falling prices have paralyzed japan ’s economy for a decade . china and hong kong have seen prices plummet recently .
even if america now absents itself from the jcpoa , it has only two means of blocking the implementation of the agreement between iran and the rest of the world . the first would foment war . this clearly is on america ’s agenda , especially with the neoconservative doyen john bolton back in the white house as national security adviser . the world must steadfastly resist another ruinous american military adventure . extraterritorial sanctions are the second way the us could kill the jcpoa .
it was probably in response to this impasse that china pressed ahead with the establishment of the aiib . the size of china ’s economy – and its resulting diplomatic weight – is a fact that can not be wished away . a strategy of containment worked well for america and its allies during the cold war , but it can not apply today without flexibility and strategic common sense . critics of america ’s policy point out that , even if the us thwarted the effort to establish the aiib , china would continue to project power in asia , and around the rest of the world , one way or another . channeling that influence through the newly created international organization , they argue , is more likely to temper raw power grabs .
tel aviv – us president-elect donald trump has said a lot about foreign affairs without actually saying anything at all . his muddled statements offer little insight into what kind of foreign policy he will actually pursue , and there is little reason to believe that when his approach becomes clear , it will be what the united states – or the world – needs . trump is a businessman , not a statesman . he thinks in terms of immediate gains and losses – a worldview exemplified in his declarations that america ’s allies need to contribute more to security alliances . at a time of evolving challenges and growing threats , adhering to this narrow-minded , isolationist approach is unlikely to do anyone much good .
in 2009 , business accounted for 75 % of r & d funding in japan , 73 % in south korea , 72 % in china , 67 % in germany , and 60 % in the us , whose companies are the largest r & d investors in terms of absolute purchasing power , spending more than twice as much as japanese firms . but business investment as a share of gdp has changed very little in the us over the past decade , while rising rapidly in many other countries , including china , singapore , south korea , and israel . global multinational companies are the largest business-sector r & d investors in the us and other countries . multinational companies , for example , headquartered in the us or elsewhere , accounted for about 84 % of private ( non-bank ) r & d investment in the us in 2009 , about the same as a decade earlier . and american multinationals still locate about 84 % of their r & d activities , often in innovation clusters around research universities .
beijing – measured by the percentage of people living in its cities , china ’s urbanization rate currently stands at around 48 % , according to official statistics . given that the share of urban dwellers in the city ’s urban areas was only 18 % just 30 years ago , this is remarkable progress . but it is still unsatisfactory , because most other countries at a similar stage of development experienced faster urbanization than industrialization . china ’s urbanization lagged behind its industrialization , which now stands at around 70 % , when measured by the percentage of the labor force , whose income derives mainly from non-farm activities . another striking difference between china and some other developing countries is that chinese cities , large and small , lack any sign of significant urban poverty or slums .
implementing democracy , with or without regime change , was the only alternative to chaos and the rise of fundamentalism . today , iraq may be on the verge of civil war between shiites and sunnis . iran under a new and more radical president is moving the “ irresistible ” towards possessing nuclear capacity . a free electoral process has brought hamas to power in palestine , and the unfortunate episode of the danish newspaper cartoons illustrated the almost combustible nature of relations between islam and the west . all of these developments pave the way for new interpretations .
this has made it easier for lula to buck his socialist allies , and distance himself from chávez , having , as recently as march 2008 , backed chávez following colombia ’s brief incursion into ecuador , which killed farc commander raul reyes . calderón ’s uncompromising line on drug dealers in mexico , an unrelenting offensive that follows uribe ’s precedent in dealing with the farc , has also been helped , owing to economic growth muted domestic opposition . the emerging uribe-lula-calderón troika has geo-strategic influence , because things have begun to change in cuba ever since fidel castro formally handed over the presidency to his brother , raúl . latin america is obsessed with this transition , and uribe , calderón , and lula has no intention of letting chávez lead the way . last january , lula visited the island with a string of prominent brazilian businessmen and signed trade and investment deals worth $ 1 billion .
before our eyes , tragedy in several acts is unfolding , in which the players and their aims are clear . what is not known is how much more deeds this sorry political spectacle will have , and thus when – and how – it will end . the first act began in the fall of 2013 , when then-president viktor yanukovych duped the european union and its leaders by refusing to sign the long-planned association agreement . instead , he chose to have ukraine entered a customs union with russia in exchange for a pile of cash and cheap oil and natural gas . russian president vladimir putin seemed to have achieved his political objective , namely bringing ukraine , which had been drifting toward europe throughout the post-soviet period , firmly back into the kremlin ’s sphere of influence .
although the number of participants has increased from the original 15 to 25 , most countries have no voice . but there is a larger question lurking behind the gge : can norms really constrain state behavior ? most experts agree that the global cyberspace treaty currently would be politically impossible ( though russia and china have made such proposals at the un ) . but , beyond formal treaties , normative constraints on states also include codes of conduct , conventional state practices , and widely shared expectations of due behavior among a group ( which create common law ) . in scope , these constraints can vary from global to plurilateral .
monetary policy , of course , also has redistributive effects . think of the different effects of interest rates on borrowers versus creditors . monetary policy , however , is a much more awkward , indirect , and imprecise way of picking winners and losers than fiscal policy . independent central banks can occasionally be pain to politicians , but at least they can be used as scapegoats when necessary-a role whose political benefits outweigh the costs of losing control over useful tools . these considerations should guide the choice of what follows the european stability pact .
unlike the us , china did not suffer from a liquidity shortage and a credit crunch during the global financial crisis . low interest rates and non-market interference thus , rather than the demand from enterprises , fueled explosive credit growth in the first half of 2009 , surpassing the full-year target . if commercial banks were allowed to base lending decisions solely on economic considerations , credit and money supply would grow more slowly , limiting the risk of rising bad-loan ratios , stalled enterprise reform , inflationary pressure , and a resurgence of asset bubbles as excess liquidity enters equity and real-estate markets . indeed , china ’s housing prices have been skyrocketing in recent months . the government has been too generous in helping to revive real-estate demand , overwhelmed by fear of falling asset prices on economic growth , was too cautious in dealing with bubbles when they reappeared .
now a constitutional reform supposedly aimed at “ promoting turkey ’s eu membership ” would further curb the army ’s role as guardian of the secular state and strengthen government control of the judiciary . erdogan ’s islamic revolution has also broadened into the education system with the introduction of a markedly religious curriculum . to back turkey ’s strategic shift , a new law recently made the teaching of arabic obligatory in schools . it is difficult to imagine a more symbolic blow to ataturk ’s vision . erdogan believes that by exercising turkey ’s capacity for mediation , he will recover the burden of his ottoman forbears as the guarantors of peace and security in ma“ ma“ peace and security . ”
he remained skeptical of notions of irreversible progress . change for the better could emerge only from practical initiatives , rather than from sunday speeches . european integration thus had to be shaped by actual policies and institutions , not decree . so it and giscard created the european council ( composed of heads of european governments ) , which is now a major player in the european union ’s institutional set-up . they pushed forward the idea of monetary integration , which came to fruition a generation later .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . for britain , the prospects are suddenly much clearer and better than at any time since june 2016 . while the likelihood that prime minister theresa may will soon be ousted could create the impression of a constitutional crisis , reality is that political conditions are certain to stabilize once the period for renegotiating the uk-eu relationship extends again from the new , very soft , april 12 deadline until the end of the year or beyond .
it no longer dreams of becoming the “ united states of europe , ” and jacques delors ’ suggestion of “ the united nations of europe ” has remained too ambivalent , if not deliberately ambiguous , to be effective . after the irish “ no , ” can the union find salvation in nato ’s idea of a “ coalition of the willing ” ? can the most determined pro-integration europeans leave the pack without being paralyzed by a coalition of unwilling ? of course , the irish “ no ” is not the equivalent of the eu of what the afghan quagmire represents for nato . yet it also represents a major setback and challenges to the institutional , political , and even psychological nature of the eu .
what is also required is a dose of realism . the struggle against the islamic state is not a conventional war , either . we can not eradicate or destroy it any time soon , because it is as much a network and an idea as an organization and a de facto state that controls territory and resources . indeed , terrorism is and will continue to be one of this era ’s scourges . the good news , though , is that the threat posed by the islamic state to the middle east and the rest of the world can be dramatically reduced through sustained , concerted action .
failing that , the left will come to power and reverse years of reform and progress . but a currency board will also help to initiate financial intermediation for the benefit of small and medium-size firms , starved of capital by the experience of recurrent crises and bad credit . small and medium-size firms need to become part of mexican capitalism . mexico ’s economy has had a good few years now ; not very difficult to achieve given booming america ’s next door and great liquidity in global capital markets . mexico ’s own skillful success at rebuilding opec ( boosting the value of its oil exports ) has contributed to good performance , as has the determination to hang on to and even widen mr. illa ’s predecessor reforms , president salinas .
it requires a sense of social responsibility that accompanies and cushions the painful process of modernization . people suspended between a lost past and a future not yet gained the need for help . such assistance will yield no immediate results , but awareness of the medium term – which implies readiness to confront it by delaying immediate gratification – is also a sign of a liberal order . fighting al qaeda thus is not a war . it is partly self-defense , partly an assertion of the rule of law in difficult circumstances , and partly a constructive effort to redress the causes of frustration .
groups like the syrian national council are loose associations of individuals and groups , many outside syria . these are groups criticized by the obama administration and others for their failure to present a united front , formulate a credible agenda , or be seen as a viable alternative to the current regime . but these groups have limited influence over local opposition groups inside syria , which are equally diverse and divided . it is among these groups that radical islamists have gained a foothold . fear of another islamist takeover is the second main argument against toppling assad , but the longer he remains in power , the greater the gains made by islamists on the ground .
but this was not a case of over-regulating and over-reaching . on the contrary , 30 years of financial deregulation , made possible by capturing the hearts and minds of regulators , and by politicians on both sides of the aisle , gave a narrow private-sector elite – mostly wall street – almost all the upside from the housing boom . the downside was shoved onto the rest of society , particularly the relatively uneducated and underpaid , who now have lost their homes , their jobs , their hopes for their children , or all the above . these people did not cause the crisis . but they are paying for it .
the recent downturn in france ’s industrial output has created large trade deficits , undermining the competitiveness of small and medium-size enterprises . with unemployment standing at around 11 % , with a record-high 3.3 million workers registered as jobless in october . at the same time , the political crisis is impeding the government ’s pursuit of difficult reforms . french leaders have demonstrated an inability to communicate effectively or apply past experiences in analyzing current threats . instead , they resorting to diversionary tactics by engaging in overblown rhetorical battles over minor controversies .
mumbai – as india gears up for its general election next month , it has some cause to celebrate : extreme poverty is finally in retreat . in 2012 – two decades after the government launched a series of economic reforms aimed at opening up the economy – the official poverty rate had reached 22 % , less than half the rate in 1994 . but it is time for india to raise its aspirations . escaping abject destitution , though an important milestone , is not the same as achieving a decent standard of living and a sense of economic security . to that end , much remains to be done .
once the march to war began , there was little room for diplomacy . yet , far from making space for diplomacy , trump ’s adviser sebastian gorka recently told the press that , “ the idea that secretary of state rex tillerson is going to discuss military matters is simply nonsensical . ” but why should n’t america ’s top diplomat have significant influence over military matters ? unless this changes soon , the us may , as then-british prime minister david lloyd george wrote of world war i , “ [ muddle ] into war ” yet again . south korean political leaders must also avoid being swept up by this intensifying war rhetoric .
alemán , too , faces rebellion in his liberal constitutional party ( plc ) , led by former treasury secretary eduardo montealegre , a hopeful presidential candidate in the liberal party . if alemán blocks montealegre ’s candidacy in the plc and pushes him to form another political party , ortega ’s chances of winning the presidency increase sharply . the business interests that finance political campaigns face a difficult dilemma : is it preferable to align with a plc dominated by a corrupt alemán or to support a new democratic power and risk helping ortega win ? although a three-way race is pure speculation at this point , it is clear that he offers ortega the best of all the electoral worlds . it is so tempting that ortega is likely to help rehabilitate arnoldo alemán , betting that freeing him will serve his political interests .
friedman and keynes both agreed that successful macroeconomic management was necessary – that the private economy on its own might well be subject to unbearable instability ­, and that strategic , powerful but limited economic intervention by government was necessary to maintain stability . but , while keynes was right to keep the sum of government spending and private investment stable , for friedman , keynes was to keep the money supply – the amount of purchasing power in readily spendable form in the hands of businesses and households – stable . a relatively minor , technical difference means , you might say . a difference of opinion that rested on different judgments about how the world works , which could ( and ultimately was ) be resolved through empirical research , you might say . and you would be half right .
but speculators are thinking ahead and shifting out of commodities today in anticipation of future higher interest rates in 2015 ; the result has been to bring the price decline ahead to this year . the fourth channels , the exchange rate , have already been functioning . the prospect of us monetary tightening coincides with moves by the european central bank and the bank of japan toward enhanced monetary stimulus . the result has been the appreciation of the dollar against the euro and the yen . the euro is down 8 % against the dollar since the first half of this year , and the yen is down 14 % .
i was also aware that the un human rights council had made repeated condemnations of israel over the last two years , but had little attention to large-scale human-rights violations in other countries . this pattern of action and inaction by the council gave greater credence to those who believe that the un ’s supreme human rights body is inherently anti-israel . i decided that i could not commit the mission for these reasons . i am aware that goldstone , a dedicated and unimpeachable human rights lawyer and advocate , shared similar concerns when he was initially approached . but he was able to work with the council ’s president to secure an agreement that he felt confident would permit the mandate to be interpreted in such a way as enabling his team to address the actions that both parties have taken to the conflict .
in the early cold war , communism and the soviet union had considerable soft power . many communists led opposition to fascism in europe , and many believed that communism was the wave of the future . but soviet soft power was undercut by stalin ’s exposure to stalin ’s crimes in 1956 , and by the repression in hungary in 1956 , czechoslovakia in 1968 , and poland in 1981 . although in theory communism aimed to establish a system of class justice , lenin ’s heirs maintained domestic power through a brutal security apparatus involving lethal purges , gulags , widespread censorship , and ubiquitous informants . the net effect of these brutal measures was a generalized loss of faith .
coronado , california – most people do not think of charles darwin as a psychologist . in fact , his work revolutionized the field . before darwin , philosophical speculation shaped our psychological understanding . but even great philosophers – plato , aristotle , hobbesian , hume , locke , kant , schopenhauer , nietzsche , and others – could describe current mental events and behaviors only ; they could not explain their causes . darwin provided a profound understanding that evolution influenced the shape of our minds as strongly as it has the shape of our bodies .
indeed , evaluating the impact of any research project is difficult . as marc kirschner , a professor at harvard medical school , pointed out in a thoughtful editorial in journal science : “ one may be able to recognize good science as it happens , but significant science can be viewed only in a rear-view mirror . ” even preeminent researchers may underestimate the significance of their findings at the time they acquire them . when salvador luria , a professor of my university of microbiology , received the 1969 nobel prize in physiology or medicine , he made the point eloquently , sending a humorous cartoon to all who congratulated him on the prize . it depicted an elderly couple at the breakfast table .
and , when fully implemented ( in 2027 ) , it will raise taxes on a majority of americans in the middle ( the second , third , and fourth quintiles ) . america ’s tax code was already regressive long before trump ’s presidency . indeed , the billionaire investor warren buffett , one of the world ’s wealthiest men , famously complained that it was wrong to pay a lower tax rate than his secretary . the new legislation makes america ’s tax system even more regressive . it is now universally recognized that rising inequality is a key economic problem in the united states , with those at the top capturing almost all of the gains in gdp over the last quarter-century .
a critical question now confronting policymakers is whether gig workers should be classified as independent contractors , or as platform workers with whom they have employment contracts and for whose customers they provide services . california , a us state with more than two million independent contractors , has attempted to resolve this question with a new law , california assembly bill 5 , which codifies legal criteria for determining how to categorize workers . applying the three-part “ abc test ” that many states already use to determine whether a worker is eligible for unemployment insurance , ab5 makes it much harder for companies to classify their workers as independent contractors rather than employees . to win political support for ab5 passage , lawmakers exempted many kinds of independent contractors – such as doctors , dentists , and real-estate agents – on the grounds that they set their own compensation rates , communicate directly with their customers , and earn at least twice the minimum wage . but ab5 does cover the more than 400,000 workers driving platform companies like ride-sharing services uber and lyft , and food-
making matters worse , the modi government has invoked section 7 of the rbi act , which allows it to issue directions directly to the central bank governor on matters of public interest . the modi government ’s willingness to go to such lengths suggests that more than interest rates are at stake . the government is particularly unhappy with rbi measures to clean up india ’s banks , many of which are burdened by a large volume of non-performing assets , and prevent risks from building up in other parts of the financial system . these measures are squeezing state-owned banks ’ ability to lend to politically connected clients . to be sure , government ministers can not come right .
as any democratic politician will attest , disappointed expectations may well be the toughest electoral opponent of all . just ask former french president nicolas sarkozy . abe , of course , has not faced the kind of sky-high expectations that sarkozy and , for that matter , us president barack obama has done . it is not that abe ’s 2012 campaign lacked ambition ; he has set out a bold economic-reform agenda , and promised to boost japan ’s global influence . but , after two decades of leaders – except junichiro koizumi – promised little and achieved less , japanese voters had little reason to expect abe to follow through on his pledges .
those individuals who carry at least one copy of a gene variant that does not allow the body to metabolize plavix have a 300 % higher risk of clotting a stent . this variation of the genome is exceptionally common , present in 30 % of individuals of european ancestry and more than 50 % of asian ancestry . in many such patients , doubling the plavix dose and checking the platelet function with point-of-care testing to assure suppression , can override the lack of response . alternative drugs , such as prasugrel or ticagrelor , can be used instead of plavix to bypass the problem . the interferon story , given one year to patients with hepatitis c virus , is particularly striking .
after all , war , in colombia and elsewhere , frequently unites nations while peace divides them . the consequences of a genuine end to the colombian armed conflict would be felt far beyond the country ’s borders . if chávez ’s venezuela became a narco-state in which regime acolytes are drug lords , this reflects their privileged relations with the farc . consequences would also be felt in mexico , where the drug cartels tearing apart the country , with the us , the world ’s largest source of demand . west africa , too , would be affected , having become the main transit point for south american drugs headed to europe in recent years .
at the heart of the budget is the realization that reducing poverty requires both rapid economic growth and targeted investments aimed at the poorest of the poor . rapid economic growth is to be based on the private sector , including foreign direct investment . thus , the budget supports critical areas of market reform and growth promotion , including measures aimed at deepening the financial sector , promoting exports , and liberalizing foreign direct investment . the key , however , is that the budget does not simply rely on “ trickle-down ” economics to raise living standards . the second pillar of poverty reduction is targeted investment for the poor , particularly for the rural poor .
in fact , exaggerating the threat of islamist terrorism , while downplaying the threat of right-wing populism , could well play into russian president vladimir putin ’s hands directly . the struggle to prioritize threats is not exclusive to the west . in the middle east , countries are trying to figure out who should be contained . among the frontrunners , the islamic state ( isis ) , iran , and israel are among the frontrunners . for israel ( and saudi arabia ) , the answer is clearly iran .
cambridge – us treasury secretary steven mnuchin is hemmed in on all sides . domestically , he is trapped between the promises he has made ( such as mnuchin ’s rule ) that taxes will not be cut for the rich ) , president donald trump ’s actions ( whose tax plan includes cuts for the rich ) , and simple arithmetic ( which makes the administration ’s conflicting promises impossible to fulfill ) . but even on the international stage , where american treasury secretaries typically enjoy more latitude and esteem , mnuchin is likely to have a hard time . after all , the trump administration has made it clear that it has no intention of fulfilling the global leadership commitments overseen by mnuchin ’s predecessors . given trump ’s belief that international negotiations are just a forum for making unilateral demands , how could mnuchin – who , like his boss , lacks government experience – persuade other countries that adherence to common rules and norms , such as open trade , is in everyone ’s interest ?
cambridge – how should one evaluate the agreement reached in paris this month at the united nations climate change conference ? no sooner was the agreement announced on december 12 than the debate erupted . some avid environmentalists were disappointed that the agreement did not commit firmly to limiting global warming to 1.5 º celsius above pre-industrial levels by 2050 . but such a commitment would not have been credible . what emerged in paris was actually better , because negotiators were able to agree on practical steps in the right direction .
muslim professionals , fearing for their safety , began to migrate to ghettos . muslim charitable organizations , often funded by saudi arabia and other arab countries , began to move into areas of social life where the state failed to dismally , particularly education . as a result , for the first time , thousands of muslim boys were enrolled in school . unfortunately , they were educated in religious seminaries espousing a deeply intolerant , fundamentalist brand of islam . with discrimination soon cutting across class lines , rising numbers of indian muslims began to look for ties with muslim communities elsewhere in the world .
today , private firms employ more of china ’s working class than state-owned enterprises ( soes ) . with a fraction of soes ’ resources , private firms employ much of the proletariat , produce goods demanded by proletarian consumers , and , because of their superior performance , they safeguard the interests of proletarian savers by actually paying back their bank loans . why most pundits miss the fact that workers protest , not in zhejiang and guangdong provinces , but in the northeast ’s socialist bastions , is a mystery . workers protest not against menial jobs in capitalistic wenzhou , but against no jobs in socialist shenyang . the government can not pay unemployed workers their pensions because socialism bankrupted its finance .
poorer or smaller countries can hardly dream of winning the european championship , as steaua ( romania ) , red star ( serbia ) , or nottingham forest ( now languishing in the english third division ) once did . but , while we see inequality and exclusion in club-level soccer , the opposite is true for competitions among national teams . the average winning margin among the top eight world cup national teams has steadily decreased , from more than two goals in the 1950 ’s to about 1.5 goals in the 1960 ’s , 1970 ’s , and 1980 ’s , and only 0.88 goals in the 2002 world cup . the same is true of all the games played at the final tournament , not only those among the top eight national teams . the decline in winning margins is all the more impressive because the world cup has grown from 16 to 32 national teams – many of them new and rather inexperienced .
in fact , the budget assumes the best of all worlds , not the blue chip , in which interest rates remain low but gdp growth ambles along at around 2 % . with real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates remaining near record lows , a marked increase in long-term growth , as the administration forecasts , would be historically anomalous . in the omb paper , the real interest rate on three-month treasuries is expected to remain below 1 % in a decade . moreover , in that projection , the term premium disappears almost entirely . at present , ten-year treasuries offer more than three times the yield on three-month treasuries .
but that antagonism reflected the personalization of politics achieved by berlusconi , as well as the institutional feature that he abolished . one of his government ’s last acts was to replace the majoritarian electoral system , introduced in 1993 with proportional rule . the new electoral system changes the incentives of politicians , and could induce a return to shifting coalitions and unstable governments . this outcome would be accelerated if , as is likely , berlusconi himself was to distance himself from politics in the coming electoral term . under new electoral rules , seats are allotted to parties in proportion to the votes , but special provision induces parties to forge pre-electoral agreements : a pre-electoral coalition that wins the most votes receives a seat premium that ensures comfortable majorities in the chamber of deputies ( the lower house ) .
and he has had some success – to the detriment of economic growth . though the current 7 % rate is comfortable , it is far below the double-digit rates that prevailed prior to 2008 . given the need for further economic restructuring – and , given long-term demographic trends , which will reduce the supply of labor – pre-2008 growth rates are unlikely to rebound . this is fine with li , who recognizes that structural transformation and industrial upgrading – not an unsustainable credit-led growth model – is the key to achieving high-income status . but there is more to assess wen ’s stimulus than the growth/reform trade-off .
the climate challenge demands much deeper public-private cooperation to boost green investment . we need to ensure that infrastructure is built to cope with the increased impact of climate change and develop clear global standards for disclosing the climate risks that investment projects pose . for example , how will a city cope with increased flood risk , and how will agricultural land be maintained productively as droughts grow more severe ? big and small investors alike should know precisely how their money could be affected by a changing climate . here , public investment institutions like the european investment bank can help with adaptation in many ways .
“ more than half of this battle is taking place on the media battlefield , [ for ] we are in a media battle in the race for the hearts and minds of [ muslims ] . ” the speaker was not some public relations executive , but osama bin laden ’s chief lieutenant , ayman al-zawahiri . terrorists skillfully adapted to fight wars in today ’s media age , but for the most part america and other democracies ’ governments have not . consider that violent extremists have their own “ media relations committees ” aimed at manipulating elite opinion . they plan and design headline-grabbing attacks , using every means of communication to intimidate and break the collective will of free people .
exemplary and punitive damages , of course , to discourage behavior toward society do exist in statute books . but philippine courts have refused to resort to the use of such damage awards as a tool for controlling behavior , particularly of businessmen . recent attempts by filipino lawyers to prosecute civil-rights claims for environmental tort and human-rights abuses before american courts demonstrate just how desperate filipino claimants are to seek redress against those who have acted negligently or with impunity . all of this explains why sulpicio lines , the star princess princess , have remained in commercial operations despite its many lapses . simply put , philippine courts have not made it sufficiently costly to maintain seaworthy vessels .
the american congress is considering legislation that allows the trump administration to impose sanctions on european firms that take part in the project , even though these companies are contractually obliged to see the work through . and , according to gerhard schröder , a former german chancellor who now chairs the pipeline project , america ’s ambassador to germany has been acting more like an “ occupation officer ” than a diplomat . all told , the trump administration ’s disruptive behavior has left the french and german governments furious . but , beyond fueling anger , trump ’s attacks on other countries ’ sovereignty add momentum to a new push for european political unification . it is no secret that europe is in the midst of an internal economic crisis – a result of saddling southern european countries with high inflation prior to the 2008 financial crash , which severely diminished their competitiveness within the european system .
all have abolished controls at their shared borders , and have adopted a common visa policy for non-member citizens . it is certainly handy to treat the flight from zurich to oslo as a domestic journey , with no passport controls arguing for departure and arrival . and it is undoubtedly convenient to drive from berlin to barcelona without having to wait in line at every border crossing . indeed , that convenience is probably why only two eu countries ( ireland and the united kingdom ) have opted out of the schengen agreement . but the refugee crisis exposed the flipside of the schengen agreement – namely , the difficulty of monitoring national and eu territory without border controls .
europeans have become dependent on such companies , all of which are based in china or america . yet europe has focused more on enforcing shared values in the tech sector – namely , by strengthening data privacy regulations – than on developing a long-term strategy to become competitive . defining such a strategy could help europe identify areas for mutual accommodation . a third area with the potential for strategic cooperation is development aid and investment in the world ’s poorest and most fragile states . such cooperation is essential to combating terrorism , human trafficking , and migration .
just adding liquidity while continuing current austerity policies will not reignite the spanish economy . so , too , in the us , smaller banks that largely finance small and medium-size enterprises have all but neglected . the federal government – under both president george w. bush and barack obama – has allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to prop up mega-banks , while allowing hundreds of these crucially important smaller lenders to fail . but lending would be inhibited even if the banks were healthier . after all , small enterprises rely on “ “ “ lobbying ” for credit , and the value of real estate – the main form of collateral – is still down one-third from its pre-crisis level .
the world learned that lesson following the 1973 arab-israel war . arab oil-exporting countries embargoed their oil sales to the us and the netherlands to punish them for their support of israel . but the destined oil for the us and the netherlands shifted to other countries , such as japan , while oil destined for other countries found its way to the us and the netherlands . oil is a fungible commodity , and markets made clear at a common price . when the dust settled , it turned out that american , dutch , and other importers all suffered roughly the same shortfall and paid the same damaging high price .
the world has been horrified by graphic images of myanmar ’s latest crackdown by myanmar ’s military junta . but bullets and clubs unleashed on buddhist monks have worked . monks have retreated , and eerie normalcy has returned to yangon ( rangoon ) , myanmar ’s principal city , and former capital . that crackdown continues under darkness . when the sun sets in myanmar , fear rises .
the underlying issue is whether europe ’s monetary union needs greater integration to manage crises like greece ’s , or whether it can maintain the current approach , founded on national responsibility and sanctions for those who break the rules . germany ’s finance minister , wolfgang schäuble , has suggested that those sanctions should include expulsion from the eurozone – something that was never envisaged in the 1992 maastricht treaty . nor , of course , was it ever envisaged that greece would face its current economic trauma . admittedly , the country ’s economic performance after the oil shock of the early 1970s was poor , marked by slow growth , high inflation , and unemployment , huge fiscal deficits , rising debt , a declining currency , and inadequate infrastructure . indeed , until the mid-1990s , the government ’s lack of macroeconomic discipline , and its tendency to succumb to populist demands and vested interests , accounted for much of the country ’s economic weakness .
these include flush toilets , automobiles , electric power , long-distance communications , modern information processing , and so forth . once again , it would have been made more or less expensive – or simply impossible – to achieve similar capabilities in earlier history . in the late roman empire , only a wealthy aristocrat could have bought a nomenclator – a slave tasked with memorizing names and faces , reminding the aristocrat of them when social occasions demanded it . today , having a basic smartphone is better than having a dozen or even a thousand entourage , nomenclator-like assistants . in thinking about the future of growth , and the opportunities that continued growth will open up for all of humanity , we should reflect on how far we have come .
insofar as this is true , the united states will not be replaced as the dominant power unless and until it abdicates that role . this may sound simple , but it will have far-reaching consequences for the coming century ’s international order . vital interests guiding chinese policy are internal modernization , the ruling regime ’s political stability and survival , and the country ’s unity ( which includes taiwan ) . for a long time , these interests are unlikely to change . as a result , china will become a largely inward-looking superpower , which – precisely for that reason – will pursue its foreign-policy interests in an entirely unsentimental manner .
the government pursued fiscal austerity , but not enough to make up for the vagaries of the market . the global financial crisis that followed east asia ’s crisis set off a series of large exchange-rate adjustments . the dollar , to which argentina ’s peso was tied , increased sharply in value . meanwhile , argentina ’s neighbor and mercosur ’s trading partner , brazil , saw its currency depreciate – some say that it became significantly undervalued . wages and prices fell , but not enough to allow argentina to compete effectively , especially given that many agricultural goods that constitute argentina ’s natural comparative advantages face high hurdles in entering rich countries ’ markets .
when such debt-fueled bubbles bursts , its effects are transmitted directly to the real economy through household-sector balance sheets , with consumption deleveraging contributing to a decline in employment and private investment . it is much harder to find circuit breakers for this dynamic than , say , that caused balance-sheet distress in the financial sector . yet the chinese authorities seem not to have learned the lessons of either episode . not only did they fail to mitigate the risks , underscored in the 2007 meltdown that new retail investors introduce into the market ; in fact , they have exacerbated them , by allowing , and even encouraging , those investors to accumulate leverage through margin purchases . making matters worse , when the current stock-market correction began in early june , chinese regulators relaxed margin-buying restrictions , while encouraging state-owned enterprises and asset managers to purchase more stocks .
but i doubt that it has . seventy years ago , john maynard keynes pointed out his fallacy . when shocks to the system occur , agents do not know what will happen next . faced with this uncertainty , they do not readjust their spending ; instead , they refrain from spending until the clear , send the economy into a tailspin . it is the shock , not adjustment .
the financial sector has imposed huge externalities on the rest of society . america ’s financial industry polluted the world with toxic mortgages , and , in line with the well established “ polluter pays ” principle , taxes should be imposed on it . besides , well-designed taxes on the financial sector might help alleviate the problems caused by excessive leverage and too-big-to-fail banks . taxes on speculative activity might encourage banks to focus greater attention on performing their key societal role in lending . over the longer term , most economists agree that governments , especially in advanced industrial countries with aging populations , should be concerned about the sustainability of their policies .
but public reaction to them , together with the recent oil-price spikes , may well account for good measure for changing market psychology . attitudes toward risk change over time , and events like ahmadinejad ’s and peres ’s remarks may precipitate such changes . so , while these things happen in ways that are hard to quantify , perhaps analysts should heed ahmadinejad ’s words just as carefully as they do to bernanke in trying to understand the direction of world stock markets . economists might not like to focus on public thinking , and how it interacts with price changes , world news stories , and speculative dynamics . after all , doing so implies less predictable economic events ( and economists less omniscient ) than they like to imagine .
new york – in their efforts to pass a bailout plan for america ’s financial system , bush administration officials invoked the specter of the great depression of the 1930s . but , for most asians , economic armageddon is far more recent . the asian financial crisis of a decade ago brought banks , corporations , and governments to their knees . the bonfire sparked the collapse of thai baht in the summer of 1997 . contagion soon spread across east asia , with ripple effects of serial currency devaluations reaching as far as russia and brazil .
plato ’s purpose in dialogue , of course , is not to define piety : if socrates knows about a better definition than the unacceptable ones offered by euthyphro , he does not reveal it . rather , plato ’s point is to show that euthyphro is ignorant of his own ignorance of piety , and that euthyphro thus can not really know that prosecuting his father is actually the right thing to do . the knowledge that comes from this kind of self-examination is crucial in all decision-making . one should know the moral character of any action that is contemplating . and to know that one must be just as well aware of what one does not know as of what one does .
one billion people worldwide lack access to clean water , and more than two billion lack adequate sanitation . moreover , water scarcity means food scarcity . after all , the agricultural sector accounts for 70 % of global freshwater consumption ; with water in short supply , farmers are less able to feed the world ’s population . this year , china experienced its worst drought in a half-century , affecting millions of hectares of farmland and causing power shortages . in northern africa , encroaching desert communities displaced many people , exacerbating tensions between farmers and herders .
brazil ’s deregulation of agriculture and encouragement of r & d enabled brazilian agriculture research corporation to pioneer more than 9,000 technology projects , including design tropical soybean strain that can thrive in brazil ’s climate . efficiency soared , placing brazil ’s crop yields on par with those of the developed economies . the era of “ easy ” gdp growth fueled by the massive army of young workers is ending . emerging economies must confront the resulting growth challenge head-on by pursuing sweeping policy changes , incentives , and established practices to boost productivity . recognizing this imperative is just the first step .
since the g-20 ’s cannes meeting last november , for example , europe has stepped up its financial firewalls by € 200 billion ( $ 252 billion ) , restructured greek debt , taken steps toward strengthening its banks and banking regulations , established fiscal discipline rules , and implemented a range of labor – and product-market reforms . but the magnitude of the challenges confronting europe implies an urgent need for far more decisive reform . we are confident that europe will act together to meet these challenges , and we will continue to support such efforts , because european stability and growth matter for us all . second , we need a clear message from the g-20 that all of its members are delivering policies for strong , sustainable , and balanced growth . to be meaningful , the message must be backed up with action : g-20 members must demonstrate that their policies are clearly directed toward restoring economic growth and creating jobs , and that they will be accountable for meeting their commitments in full .
they must work with bureaucracies , which are naturally disinclined to have their efforts prioritized , lest they end up as anything less than number one . whenever we prioritize , we say not only where we should do more ( which is good ) , but also where we should not step up our efforts ( which are regarded as cynical ) . but not talking about priorities does not make the need to prioritize the transition . instead , choices become only less clear-cut , less democratic , and less efficient . refusing to prioritize , dealing primarily with the most publicized problems is wrong .
the point is not to get lost in endless comparisons or arcane mathematics , but to underscore that it is possible – and , indeed , necessary – to have meaningful discussion of inequality , based on concrete figures , with the goal of setting clear targets . if the right targets are to be selected , the debate must be better informed . as it stands , surveys show that people tend to believe that inequality is lower than it actually is , but still higher than the level they would consider ideal . this is true in most countries – including in the us , where inequality is among the highest in the world – though there are a few countries , such as norway , where people have a more realistic view . correcting these misperceptions will change people ’s opinions about redistributive policies .
those sanctions have crippled iran ’s economy as well . similarly , denying any bank that does business with the bank of russia or society access to america ’s financial system would create the kind of economic chaos that was seen last in russia immediately after communism ’s fall . ordinary russians should be made to understand that permitting putin – whose primary claim to leadership is that he ended the penury of the first post-soviet years – to continue with his imperialist aggression will cost them dearly . third , obama should emphasize to the chinese their stake in eurasian stability . putin may regard the soviet union ’s disintegration as a tragedy , but for china as the greatest geostrategic gift imaginable .
against this backdrop , it is not surprising that pay in the financial sector soared . the city of london , lower manhattan , and a few other centers became money machines that made investment bankers , hedge-fund managers , and private equity folk immoderately wealthy . university leaders like me spent much of our time persuading them to recycle part of their gains to old schools . things have been different for the past two years . many financial firms have shrunk their balance sheets dramatically , and some have , of course , gone out of business altogether .
indeed , the policy has emboldened pro-russian politicians who love nothing more than to see the americans kicked out of kyrgyzstan . horse-trading around the base has been intense . in a february meeting , the american ambassador to kyrgyzstan asked her chinese counterpart about reports that china had offered to kyrgyzstan $ 3 billion if kyrgyz shut down the american base . the two diplomats were conversing in russia . “ visibly flustered , ” ( the chinese ambassador ) temporarily lost his ability to speak russia and began spluttering in chinese to the silent aide diligently taking notes right behind him , ” according to confidential american diplomatic cable obtained by web site widiligs.org .
but , ultimately , the best way to address them and prevent a resurgence is to ensure that economic opportunities are available to those determined to try . social assistance with no hope of individual improvement is not enough . it is time that france starts questioning its economic model . in a recent statement about burning suburbs , chirac declared , “ we will have to draw all the lessons from this crisis when the time comes and order has been restored , and with much courage and lucidity . ” but those lessons imply reforms that are more far-reaching than chirac is ever likely to envisage .
we believe that they are faster than we in acquiring and processing knowledge , because they have grown up with the tools and techniques we lacked at their age . we entrust them with driving our country to new levels of growth and development , which is why we have now appointed a cabinet minister of age and created a special youth council . we have also learned from hundreds of thousands of dead and millions of refugees in our region that sectarian , ideological , cultural , and religious bigotry only fuel rage fires . we can not and will not allow this in our country . we need to study , teach , and practice tolerance – and instill it in our children , both through education and our own example .
we know that ultra-low real interest rates produce massive credit expansion . in countries with higher price growth than in germany , but with the same borrowing costs , this can produce nothing but overheating , higher inflation , and even lower real interest rates . to stem this flood of credit-induced demand with fiscal policy alone is impossible , and it is absurd to try . how tighten fiscal policy to generate more than 100 % of gdp in credit-induced spending power in only three years , as occurred in ireland in 2004-2007 – and in a democracy sporting a fiscal surplus , as ireland is ? to ask politicians in a democracy with large surpluses to raise taxes or cut benefits or public investment by the enormous magnitude needed to stave off disaster strikes is to touch with reality .
but the bottom line is that constitutional changes can be carried out only by unanimous agreement , with a few member governments starting with the uk , would resist any overtly federalist agenda . in the past , no doubt , france ( under president mitterrand ) and germany ( under chancellor kohl ) would regularly press the case for closer integration , despite british reluctance . today , however , france and germany are less united on a common european strategy , and their commitment to european integration seems less strong . as a result , the french government is reluctant to force a confrontation with the british if there is any chance of softer compromise in the future . the problem is that this conspiracy of evasion may not work , and fischer ’s significance is that he is the first government minister in office to say so in public , even if he pretends to say that it is in personal capacity .
enthusiasts describe it as a new brand of modern industrial policy that can help push brazil beyond its traditional role as a commodity exporter . critics call this a misguided effort , one that generates only more distortions and retard growth . in my view , the intellectual case for activist policies – as made , for example , by dani rodrik and ricardo hausmann of harvard – is strong . markets for innovation and new ideas work poorly , and governments can help to address these market failures . but rodrik and hausmann also show that getting such policies right implies exacting demands .
those among the native-born with the lowest incomes and education levels will always be worse off if they must compete with a large number of young male immigrants . to be sure , gender imbalances are not the only driver of anti-immigrant sentiment , let alone populism more broadly . but evolutionary psychology , which stresses competition for females , can add another dimension to our understanding of these phenomena , while helping us to predict when and where civil strife might erupt . there is little that can be done to alter gender imbalances . but , while the problem can not be “ solved , ” understanding it might help to limit harm , not least by enabling leaders to avoid policies that are either not useful or exacerbate tensions .
new haven – codependency never ends well in personal relationships . judging by the ever-escalating trade war between the united states and china , the same is true of economic relationships . while i published a 2014 book on the codependent economic relationship between the us and china , i would be the first to admit that it is a stretch to generalize insights from human psychology to assess the behavior of national economies . but the similarities are striking , and the prognosis all the more compelling , because the world ’s two largest economies sink into a dangerous quagmire . in its most basic terms , codependency occurs at one of the extremes of the relationship ’s dynamics – when two partners draw more from each other than from their own inner strength .
but how is this identity to be defined ? this is the point at which many begin to use the language that defines europe by distinction , indeed by the us -- europe as anti-america . throughout the cold war , what was then the soviet union provided the raison d’être of europe ; in an era of globalization , it is america . comparing and contrasting the two sides of the atlantic has a long pedigree . european culture and american commerce , european profundity , and american materialism -- these are ancient and tired themes .
without raising national saving – highly unlikely under america ’s current budget trajectory – trade will simply shift away from china to america ’s other trading partners . with this trade diversion likely to migrate to higher-cost platforms around the world , american consumers will be hit by the functional equivalent of a tax hike . ironically , trump has summoned the same robert lighthizer , the veteran of japan ’s trade battles of the 1980s , to lead the charge against china . unfortunately , lighthizer seems clueless about the macro argument today as he was back then . in both episodes , the us has been in denial , bordering on delusion .
hollande ’s government and prime minister , jean-marc ayrault , has strong majorities at all executive and legislative levels , giving it a rare opportunity to act . if it can renew the european model at home , it will be able to project success much more widely , particularly in southern europe , in turn reinforcing trust and faith in the eu , particularly among young generations . the french center-left must lead in conceiving a vision for europe , where solidarity and equity reinforce long-term economic strength . finally , along with the united kingdom among european countries , france retains more of a global role than germany has yet to acquire . while the united nations security council is outdated in its structure , it still plays a crucial legitimizing role ; and france , not germany , is a member .
deep reform – focused on quality and performance , rather than enrollment and diplomas – is needed to transform the learning process and unleash the productivity growth that a young labor force requires . the third challenge , instrumental in meeting the first two , will be to reinforce regional arab solidarity . many outsiders underestimate or purposefully minimize the “ arab world ” “ arab ” “ arab ” ( arab ) “ arab world . ” but the 2011 revolutions demonstrated that a strong sense of identity , common language , and much shared history bind arabs together , despite vast differences in natural-resource endowments , political circumstances , and average per capita incomes . how else can one explain the fact that the revolt in tunisia led to popular revolts from north africa to the arabian peninsula ?
who has the more flexible work ? who has a boss or company that better supports reconciling work and family obligations ? attitudes about male caregiving are beginning to shift . only one-third of millennial men believe in traditional gender roles . america ’s largest tech companies are beginning to compete for talent by offering paternity leave .
muted wage growth increases competitiveness , and underutilized labor and capital are redeployed . how fast this happens depends partly on the private sector ’s flexibility and dynamism . but it also depends on the government ’s ability and willingness to provide bridging function for the shortfall in aggregate demand and pursue reforms and investment that boost long-term growth prospects . unless public-sector deleveraging is a complete growth policy – and it is not – why is there so much attention to fiscal austerity and so little action ( as opposed to lip service ) on growth and employment ? several possibilities – not mutually exclusive – come to mind .
by contrast , when the personal situations of many individual americans are scrutinized through european eyes , extreme individualism that constitutes a key part of american optimism translates into an unacceptable social scandal . “ cities of tents fill with the victims of the economic crisis , ” read one headline a month ago on the front pages of a massachusetts american newspaper . journalists report tragic stories of middle-class americans losing their jobs and homes , potentially putting their lives at risk without any social protection . who will pay for your expensive cancer treatment if you lose the health insurance policies that have come with your job ? it is wrong to assume , as some ultra-free marketers do , that the absence of social protection makes you stronger .
warsaw : recently poland experienced a typical -- and typically unfinished -- political debate . it focused on whether a " free " education should be made a constitutional right . a free , or as its postcommunist advocates prefer to call it , a " not paid for " education , means education in the state schools and the universities owned by the state ( but not in private schools ) . only by raising the issue to the level of the constitutional right , say , postcommunists can the guarantee of free and equal access to education be preserved . due to their dominance in parliament , postcommunists ' intransigence on this point forced other political parties participating in drafting poland 's new constitution to kowtow to their position .
governments must also clarify the responsibilities of national water agencies and improve water-related capacity at all levels to institute large-scale unconventional-water programs . best practices should be clarified , innovations identified , and tested , and knowledge and experience shared . the private sector also has a role to play in shifting toward unconventional water resources – a role that must extend beyond current efforts to tap desalinated water and urban greywater and wastewater . finally , local institutions , nongovernmental organizations , and local communities must be mobilized – through public campaigns showcasing the benefits of harnessing the potential of unconventional water resources . sustainable development goal 6 calls for universal access to clean water and sanitation .
as a result , targeting china has enormous political appeal . so , what can be made of the may 19 agreement ? beyond a tit-for-tat truce , there are few real benefits . american negotiators are fixated on targeted reductions of around $ 200 billion in the bilateral trade imbalance over a two-year timeframe . given the extent of america ’s multilateral problem , this is largely an meaningless objective , especially given the massive and ill-timed tax cuts and federal expenditure increases enacted by the american congress over the past six months .
the unprecedented economic expansion that lifted millions out of poverty has been accompanied by widening income disparities , as well as severe environmental damage . as a result , asia now has two faces : a prosperous and growing middle class , and those who have yet to benefit from the region ’s rapid economic development – and whose health and well-being adversely affect acute problems like air and water pollution . in short , the key challenges facing asia today are to sustain economic growth – at a lower but still viable rate , rates – and improve the quality of its people . asia needs strong , inclusive , green , knowledge-led growth , which implies the need to rebalance the sources of economic dynamism to emphasize domestic , regional , and south-south asia ’s “ south-south ” demand . economic relations with the west would not be diluted by this shift .
berkeley – central insight into macroeconomics is the fact that was known to john stuart mill in the first third of the nineteenth century : there can be a large gap between supply and demand for pretty much all currently produced goods and services and types of labor if there is an equally large excess demand for financial assets . and this fundamental fact is the source of big trouble . a normal supply gap and demand for some subset of currently produced commodities is not a serious problem , because it is balanced by excess demand for other currently produced commodities . as industries suffering from insufficient demand shed workers , industries benefiting from surplus demand hire them . the economy is rapidly rebalances itself , and thus returns to full employment – and does so with a configuration of employment and production that is better adapted to current consumer preferences .
initially , russian liberals welcomed budanov 's case as a sign that the country might address accusations that war crimes were committed in chechnya . last month , however , the military prosecutor accepted colonel budanov 's argument that he was temporarily insane when he killed the girl , and so acquitted budanov on the charge of murder . ( the rape charge , for some ambiguous reason , had already been dropped . ) the prosecution then began to speak of the young girl as chechen sniper , from a family of snipers . outraged , defense minister sergei ivanov dismissed the prosecutor who seemed ready to ababsolve the patriotic " hero " on all remaining charges .
once the team is in place , its members will have to figure out how to make trump ’s plans work for an economy that has – by necessity , not choice – been excessively reliant on unconventional monetary policies . the plan must recognize that during this protracted period of monetary expansion , both financial markets and resource-allocation have been distorted , worsening wealth inequality . the good news is that the incoming administration can draw on measures formulated during obama ’s tenure , but which gained little traction , owing to the highly polarized and dysfunctional congressional policies that characterized most of obama ’s eight years in office . such measures address imperatives such as infrastructure investment , tax reform , and job creation . but , of course , the us does not exist in a vacuum .
washington , dc – just over 100 years ago , the united states led the world in terms of rethinking how big business worked – and when the power of such firms should be constrained . in retrospect , breakthrough legislation – not just for the us , but also internationally – was the sherman antitrust act of 1890 . the dodd-frank financial-reform bill , which is about to pass the american senate , does something similar – and long overdue – for banking . prior to 1890 , big business was widely regarded as more efficient and generally more modern than small business . most people saw the consolidation of smaller firms into fewer , large firms as stabilizing development that rewarded success and allowed for further productive investment .
tokyo – when was the last time you sat down and wrote a letter ? i do not mean email or text message ; nor would i count a dictated message to a machine or personal assistant . no , i mean an old-fashioned “ dear donald ” or dear hillary ” letter . the reason i ask is that 65,000 people actually did write such letters to barack obama every week when he was serving as president of the united states . according to a recent feature in the guardian , a white house staffers team would select ten letters every day to pass along to a president who would then respond to them personally that evening .
they might tell pollsters that they were prepared to pay higher taxes for better public services and a more compassionate attitude toward the poor . but , ultimately , they would do exactly what they did in each of the previous four elections – a vote for a party that proclaimed “ every man for himself ” – vote for a party that proclaimed “ every man for himself . ” today , this pseudo-marxist theory for economic determinism has been refuted once and for all . in 1992 , john major ran for re-election amid an economic slump , a vicious monetary squeeze , and the aftermath of rapid inflation . economic determinists predicted that he did not stand a chance .
transactional leadership is more effective in a stable and predictable environment , whereas inspirational style is more likely to emerge in periods of rapid and discontinuous social and political change . transformational goals and inspirational style of a leader like mahatma gandhi in india or nelson mandela in south africa can dramatically influence outcomes in fluid political contexts , particularly in developing countries with weakly structured institutional constraints . american foreign-policy formation , by contrast , is heavily constrained by institutions like congress , courts , and the constitution . the us constitution would thus expect less opportunity for transformational leadership . but even the american constitution is ambiguous about the powers of congress and the president in foreign policy .
berlin – it has been 30 years since the united nations food and agriculture organization launched the tropical forestry action plan , the first global intergovernmental initiative to halt forest loss . since then , deforestation has continued unabated , and the latest international effort to stop it – an initiative known as reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation ( redd + ) – looks no more likely to be effective . far from protecting the world ’s forests , the most notable outcome of the two agreements has been , ironically , the production of the expensive consultancy reports . redd + has been created as part of the un framework convention on climate change , and the agreement governing its implementation is expected to be finalized during the un climate change conference in paris . but if world leaders are serious about halting forest loss , they should instead abandon redd + and replace it with a mechanism that addresses the underlying drivers of large-scale deforestation .
donald payne , a leading member of the american home affairs committee , and ana gomes , a member of the european parliament from portugal and head of the eu ’s observation team in the 2005 elections , has sought to tie non-humanitarian aid more closely to ethiopia ’s conduct on press freedom and other human rights . britain and some other european governments have responded to the post-election crackdown by temporarily withholding aid . but ethiopia poses a dilemma for anyone interested in human rights and democracy . cutting off aid could have calamitous humanitarian consequences for the nation ’s 80 million people . it could also destabilize a fragile region , sparking fresh wars with neighboring somalia and eritrea .
to keep people working longer , it is critical to keep them healthy . that is why the health-care industry must play a significant role in efforts to address the challenges of population aging . old age must be viewed not simply as an inevitable stage of life , but as an opportunity for health-care companies and systems to help people thrive . to this end , health-care companies should shift their research-and-development efforts toward conditions that are prevalent among older patients , including chronic diseases like diabetes , heart disease , glaucoma , rheumatoid arthritis , and cancer . such efforts are also vitally important to find ways to stem more effectively the degradation of people ’s productivity and autonomy , by preserving their physical strength , mental acuity , and senses like hearing and vision .
the second big transition-financing opportunity is in blended finance , or collaborative schemes that raise private capital for public goods . these initiatives bring together a wide array of public and private stakeholders , including multilateral organizations , to finance projects with deep environmental and social consequences . moreover , the blended approach helps scale up and de-risk projects and optimize their funding . the tropical landscapes finance facility , developed in indonesia in collaboration with the un environment program , is a good example . the initiative combines private , public , and philanthropic funds to maximize environmental and social benefits .
emerging markets were initially tied to this distress only when foreign investors began pulling out their money . then panic spread to credit markets , money markets , and currency markets , highlighting the vulnerabilities of many developing countries ’ financial systems and corporate sectors , which experienced credit booms and borrowed short and in foreign currencies . countries with large current-account deficits and/or large fiscal deficits , and with large short-term foreign-currency liabilities , were the most fragile . but even better-performing ones – like brazil , russia , india , and china – are now at risk of a hard landing . many emerging markets are now at risk of a severe financial crisis .
and if a new referendum were to occur , british voters would probably have to decide between an orderly brexit and remaining in the eu , because nobody would dare to offer a hard brexit as an alternative . until recently , a reversal of british voters ’ 2016 decision to leave the eu seemed unlikely . but bercow and eu interventions opened up a whole new game , dramatically increasing the chance that brexit may not happen . this would foil financial-market speculators betting on a withdrawal , and it is good news for both the uk and the eu . almost three years ago , british voters did not really know what they did when they decided by a narrow majority to leave the eu .
beijing – forty years ago this month , china ’s leaders set the country on a path of reform that produced history ’s most dramatic economic transformation . mao zedong died two years earlier , in 1976 , and deng xiaoping succeeded in stamping his vision of economic development and modernization on the third plenum of the eleventh central committee , held in december 1978 . in the four decades since , china has transformed itself into an economic powerhouse , portending an equally momentous makeover of the global economy and geopolitics . china ’s reforms began in agriculture , where the crushing burden of state controls has been relaxed . through the dual-track pricing mechanism , farmers have been given market incentives .
jerusalem – in the wake of misguided american policy , the threat of another military confrontation hangs like a dark cloud over the middle east . the united states ’ enemies have been strengthened , and iran – despite being branded as a member of the so-called “ axis of evil ” – has been catapulted for regional hegemony . iran could never have achieved this on its own , certainly not in such a short time . a hitherto latent rivalry between iran and israel has thus been transformed into an open struggle for dominance in the middle east . the result has been the emergence of some surprising , if not bizarre , alliances : iran , syria , hezbollah , hamas , and the american-backed , shia-dominated iraq are facing israel , saudi arabia , and most other sunni arab states , all of which feel existentially threatened by iran ’s ascendance .
fascination with liberal freedom came in poland and elsewhere at a strange moment . old social structures were destroyed , socialist customs and habits vanished overnight , former norms and unwritten rules were abandoned . in the postcommunist social revolution ( less often noted than political and economic upheavals ) families and communities undermined and ( at least in poland ) the church became too engaged in politics to help . people were left to withstand the gales of change alone . to be free , but not easy , especially when habits of dependence are ingrained .
the crisis must also not become an excuse to create new institutional formats that jeopardize the delicate balance between different eu institutions , a balance that – through appropriate adjustments – has been proven by the test of time . of course , the crisis does highlight the need to strengthen eu institutions and instruments for common action and coordination . we need final and complete ratification of the lisbon treaty to have the institutionally and internationally stronger european union we need . nor should today ’s uncertainties become an excuse to call into question the need to continue and complete the eu enlargement process . expanding the eu ’s freedom and democracy , peace , stability , and prosperity , especially throughout south-eastern europe , is in every european citizen ’s interest .
a commonly cited example of outgoing government ’s alleged economic mismanagement was its sugar-price policy . powerful sugarcane cooperatives , led by major upa supporters , supposedly drove the government to correct extravagant prices and write off the bad debts of sugar farmers , leading to over-production . instead of eliminating this system , as expected , modi ’s government has augmented subsidies for sugar exports to support higher output , raised sugar imports to discourage foreign competition , and increased sugar-based ethanol , which must be blended with gasoline . his motivation is not difficult to discern : his bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) hopes that such concessions will help it to wrest control of maharashtra , india ’s leading sugar-producing state , from upa in the upcoming state assembly elections . this goal explains another policy reversal , as does the upa .
berlin – the german social democrats ’ ( spd ) existential crisis can no longer be treated as a typical party crisis . the party captured a mere 9.7 % of the vote in bavaria ’s regional elections this month , trailing both the populist alternative für deutschland ( afd ) and the greens in national opinion polls . with another important regional election fast approaching in hesse , polls indicate that the spd will lose more support , if not as dramatically as in bavaria . the spd and the christian democratic union/christian social union ( cdu/csu ) have stood as the twin pillars of german politics since the end of world war ii . but with the spd declining , germany is moving from a de facto two-party system to a multiparty system in which no single party plays a dominant role .
while russia itself will not freeze accounts , president putin ’s meaning was clear : it would be better for all sides if this money were brought home and invested in the national economy . to achieve this end , russia must create a secure and attractive investment climate . most important , if we are to reverse capital flight , the government must persuade individual savers that they can deposit money safely and withdraw it on demand . how can the government expect to mobilize domestic investment as long as ordinary russians keep their savings – $ 50 billion , according to most estimates – at home ? russia ’s people need to be convinced of the country ’s political stability – that nobody , for example , will suggest nationalization , as happened repeatedly during the eight months that i was prime minister .
without gorbachev and his singular courage , the stream of events across europe during the fall of 1989 would never have been possible . for gorbachev ’s ascendance , more and more people in east germany took heart and stopped being afraid of their repressive regime . they realized that east germany ’s realities were not fixed in stone after all ; that change could be achieved , which many brave dissidents and proponents of civil rights trapped behind the wall demanded for so long . their commitment to the injustice of the communist regime is to me one of the best chapters in german history . the opening of hungary ’s borders that fall and the search for refuge by east german citizens in the german embassies of prague and warsaw already shaken communist and stasi rule to its foundations .
as a result , some – though relatively speaking , not many – commit long and often perilous journeys to developed countries . and yet , when they arrive at the world ’s rich doorstep , the welcome they receive is increasingly mixed , as manufactured panic over supposedly massive influxes of “ dangerous ” outsiders closes the space for humane , pragmatic responses . responsibility-sharing – the foundation of the modern international system to protect refugees – is being replaced by responsibility-shifting , usually onto least-developed countries . it is time to reboot global efforts to protect refugees . what is needed is a comprehensive global strategy with global reach , reflecting a sweeping vision that inspires and engages governments , aid communities , businesses , development institutions , civil society , faith groups , academia , sports , and arts .
munich – the euro crisis has passed through six phases so far . it is worth recalling them , because they show how policymakers stumbled along , trying to put fires without keeping an eye on where their chosen path was leading them . markets currently remain calm , but this is only the beginning of the seventh phase of the crisis , during which europe becomes mired in debt . the sequence so far has been as follows : the seventh phase of the crisis is one of enhanced moral hazard , stemming from a run-up in debt .
between 1985 and 2005 , boomsters made ten-year forecasts that exaggerated the chances of big positive changes in both financial markets ( such as dow jones industrial average of 36,000 ) and world politics ( such as tranquility in the middle east and dynamic growth in sub-saharan africa ) . they assigned probabilities of 65 % to rosy scenarios that materialized only 15 % of the time . in the same period , doomsters performed even more poorly , exaggerating the chances of negative change in all the same places where boomsters accentuated the positive , plus a few more ( i still await the impending disintegration of canada , nigeria , india , indonesia , south africa , belgium , and sudan ) . they assigned probabilities of 70 % to bleak scenarios that materialize only 12 % of the time . second , again , as skeptics warned , over-applicants rarely pay penalties for being wrong .
the economic challenges of brexit would be overwhelming . the main economic argument for britain – that britain ’s huge trade deficit is a covert weapon , because the eu would have more to lose than britain from a breakdown in trade relations – flatly misbehavior . britain would have to negotiate access to the european single market for its service industries , whereas eu manufacturers would automatically enjoy virtually unlimited rights to sell whatever they wanted in britain under world trade organization rules . margaret thatcher was the first to realize that britain ’s specialization in services – not only finance , but also law , accountant , media , architecture , pharmaceutical research , and so forth – makes eu membership critical . it makes little economic difference to germany , france , or italy , whether britain is an eu member or simply in the wto .
answering them will require a debate that transcends issues like the separation of powers and judicial independence , and elucidates the appropriate relationship between politics and religion . for that , understanding the historical context of the current crisis is crucial . when turkey became a democracy in 1950 , the previous system ’s secular kemalist elites attempted to harness the power of the military and the bureaucracy to check elected government . in fact , the turkish military , with the support of the judiciary , explicitly intervened in the functioning of civilian rule in 1960 , 1971 , 1980 , and 1997 , each time in the name of defending secularism . in response , various religious groups , including the gülen movement , encouraged their followers to take positions in the bureaucracy and the military .
berlin – during the long night of negotiations over greece on july 12-13 , something fundamental to europe cracked down . europeans have been living in another kind of eu since then . what changed that night was germany that europeans have known since the end of world war ii . on the surface , the negotiations were about averting a greek exit from the eurozone ( or “ grexit ” ) and the dire consequences that would follow for greece and the monetary union . at a deeper level , however , what was at stake was the role that europe has played in its most populous and economically powerful country .
but the rise of arab military coalitions raises serious concerns , not least because arab military interventions ’ history – unlike those carried out by the west in places like bosnia , kosovo , and even libya – contains no promising precedent . such interventions were typically aimed at empowering proxy political force over its military and political rivals , rather than averting a humanitarian catastrophe or institutionalizing a non-violent conflict-resolution mechanism following the war . egypt ’s military intervention in yemen in the 1960s is a case in point . by the late 1965 , egyptian president gamel abdel nasser had sent 70,000 troops in yemen to support a republican coup against royalist forces . despite using prohibited chemical weapons against yemeni guerillas from 1963 to 1967 – the first in the intra-arab conflict – egypt has failed to achieve its goals .
the reform process was led by oecd countries , opening up to developing countries only after this initial package was unveiled . today , 125 countries are involved , forming a group called the “ inclusive framework . ” beps was undoubtedly an important step toward tackling some of the most egregious tax-avoidance strategies used by multinational companies . it initiated , for example , country-by-country sharing among tax authorities reports on these companies ’ profits and tax payments . unfortunately , this norm will apply only to very large multinational companies , and the reporting will not be publicly available , depriving civil society of an essential tool of transparency .
and even eliminating accelerated depreciation would not broaden the tax base enough to finance a rate cut to 28 % . likewise , while limiting the deductibility of net interest for corporations , as many other developed countries have done , would broaden the tax base and discourage excessive reliance on debt financing , it would increase the tax burden on major investments in physical capital , which are often debt-financed . reducing tax preferences for non-corporate business entities ( such as partnerships ) that pass their income through to their owners ’ individual returns would also broaden the corporate-income tax base . pass-through companies now account for more than 80 % of net business income ( by far the highest in the developed world ) . several of these entities are very large and profitable , and enjoy the same legal benefits as corporations .
israel ’s disengagement plan presents the evacuation of gaza settlements as an end to 37 years of occupation . but at the same time , israel insists that gaza will have no attributes of sovereignty , and will continue to govern existing arrangements covering most aspects of security and civil administration . this means that the israeli military will continue to enter gaza at will and maintain control over border crossings , airspace , and territorial waters . nor will the israeli military withdraw from the palestinian-egyptian strip along the palestinian-egyptian border . these conditions rule out any possibility of forging a security plan that would receive the support of all factions , including hamas .
almost 60 years later , agricultural employment in the us peaked at 53 % of total employment . today , it is less than 3 % , and less than 3 % , in the us . in fact , since the 1980 ’s , most countries have experienced large declines in agricultural employment . in some , like portugal , malaysia , turkey , and indonesia , the share of agricultural employment has declined by more than 20 % . in others , like greece , italy , bulgaria , hungary , estonia , poland , the philippines , and sri lanka , the decline has exceeded 10 % .
islamabad – as pakistan gears up for its parliamentary election on february 18 , many observers hope that the vote will usher in a period of stability and calm by lending popular legitimacy to the government . but sometimes democracy is best served by refusing to participate . the upcoming elections , to be held under the illegal provisional constitutional order ( pco ) , implemented following president pervez musharraf ’s state of emergency on november 3 , are such a case , which is why my party and its coalition partners are boycotting the vote . to be sure , contesting the election would provide a major opportunity for my party to take issues to the people . in fact , my party ’s support has been on the rise , with opinion polls now indicating that it is the second most popular in frontier province – and gaining ground in every other province .
and it is good news that the official sector is paying more attention to joblessness – a very good thing . yet , unfortunately , this shift will not solve the problem that eats away at any society ’s social fabric . like bernanke and others , it is as if they wish otherwise – and as bickering policymakers seek to dump policy responsibilities on others – central banks have no proper tools to deal with the component of the unemployment crisis that results from insufficient investment in education , training , and physical capital . likewise , they can not fix debt overhangs , repair broken home financing , or address medium-term fiscal-reform challenges on their own . the best that central banks can do is buy time , albeit at an increasing cost , for other policymaking entities to get their act together .
in fact , china ’s dam builders are targeting most of the international rivers that flow out of chinese territory . most of china ’s internationally shared water resources are located on the tibetan plateau , which it annexed in the early 1950s . unsurprisingly , the plateau is the new hub of chinese dam building . indeed , china ’s 13th five-year plan , released this year , calls for a new wave of dam projects on the plateau . moreover , china recently cut off the brahmaputra river flow , bangladesh ’s lifeline , and northern india , to build a dam as part of the major hydroelectric project in tibet .
washington , dc – ten years after the failure of lehman brothers , we know that multilateral action was crucial in preventing the so-called great recession from becoming even worse than it was . back then , it was the global financial system that was tottering . today , it is the global trading system that is in jeopardy . over the last 70 years , multilateralism has served the world well . much to its credit , the united states eschewed retribution and reparations after world war ii .
schools were multiplying as attendance surged . other public services were improving , as were parents who believed that their children would lead more prosperous lives than they and previous generations had . this was certainly true of my parents , who sacrificed a lot to raise their nine children . they were not happy when , in the 1970s , their older sons became communists , strongly opposing hafez al-assad ’s brutal regime , president bashar al-assad ’s father . but this was not farfetched transformation in a city where people assumed new identities – such as nasserist , baathist , islamist , or communist – downplayed their regional and tribal origins .
this results in high turnover , owing to overwork , and increased need for foreign health-care workers to fill sorely needed positions . gcc policymakers have been right to focus on increasing access and quality health-care subsidies . but the equitable distribution of health-care services across native and migrant populations often poses thorny policy issues . and now policymakers must also devote more attention to health-care workers themselves , ensuring that they are properly educated and trained for challenges that await the region . training programs in gcc national health systems today do not focus nearly enough on innovation or systems to improve efficiency and effectiveness .
if the army collapses , it is algeria [ and ] france that collapses . ” the decisive moment came when de gaulle , in military uniform , went on television to demonstrate his mastery of the new middle . “ well , my dear and old country , here we are again facing heavy test . ” insisting that self-determination was the only way ahead , he called on the army to reject even passive associations with the insurrection and instructed it to re-establish public order . if the state bowed before the challenge it faced , “ france would be no more than a poor , broken toy floating on the ocean of uncertainty , ” he warned .
just when the world reached a consensus that ahmadinejad was merely an instrument of supreme leader ayatollah khamenei , ahmadinejad appointed vice president against khamenei ’s wishes ( though he later retracted the appointment ) . what we do know with certainty is that the regime is divided . these divisions will allow new forces to emerge in iranian society . so all means should be found to reach out to iranian society at all levels . iranian students should be encouraged to visit and study in asian universities , where they discover how confident young chinese and indian students are about the future − which might well cause them to reflect on why young iranians do not share that optimism .
how can you evaluate a contribution of light infantry against providing critical enablers such as helicopters or air-to-air refueling tankers ? over what time do you make your calculations ? common funding , with all members paying a share according to their gdp , is one tool that can be used to achieve more equitable burden-sharing . traditionally , nato has applied a “ cost ” policy lie where they fall ” : each member has picked up all the costs of operating contribution that it has made to an alliance operation . during the last few years , nato ’s funding policy has been updated to allow common funding to be used as an incentive to provide certain theater-level capabilities , like medical facilities , airports handling troops and supplies , or intelligence .
moreover , one could argue that easy money alone has contributed to the unexpectedly strong disinflationary forces seen in recent years . owing to easy financing and regulatory forbearance , aggregate supply has risen as “ zombie ” companies have proliferated . meanwhile , aggregate demand has been constrained by debt headwinds – yet another result of easy monetary conditions . given these conditions , continuing to insist on monetary easing seems particularly ill advised . with so many potential dangers on the horizon , central bankers should at least consider rethinking the fundamental assumptions underlying their policies .
so , among the wrong set of options , the least bad seems to be cooperation with the us . yet cooperation with the us may not gain much from the al-sauds , because saudi relations with america are strained to the breaking point . ever since the terrorist attacks of new york and washington last year , the regime – once central to american strategic interests in the region – has been made to feel “ free ” by the american people , which drops strong hints that there are alternatives to saudi military bases , even saudi oil . although the saudis were not included in president bush ’s “ axis of evil , ” some american policymakers now view the country as the “ kernel of evil . ” al-qaeda ’s terrorist network is perceived as arising directly from fundamentalist wahhabi teachings , which constitute an integral part of the saudi regime .
how victims remember trauma is the most controversial issue facing psychology and psychiatry today . many clinical trauma theorists believe that fighting , rape , and other terrifying experiences are seemingly engraved in the mind , never to be forgotten . others disagree , arguing that the mind can protect itself by banishing memories of trauma from awareness , making it difficult for victims to remember their most horrific experiences until it is safe to do so many years later . while acknowledging that trauma is often all too memorable , these certain clinical trauma theorists assert that a condition known as “ traumatic dissociative amnesia ” leaves a large minority of victims unable to recall their trauma precisely because it was so overwhelmingly terrifying . but these clinical trauma theorists do not argue that “ repressed ” or “ dissociated ” memories of horrific events are either inert or benign .
in calcutta , when some younger kid came along and insisted on joining the game my friends played , let the new kid be played in , but only after whispering into each other ’s ears , elé belé belé belé . elé belé is a player who thinks he is participating but , in truth , merely goes through motions . everybody knew that a goal scored by him was not a real goal . as a child , mastering elé belé ’s cruel art was important . when a new kid arrived , accompanied by a doting mother , we could convey to one another with a mere glance that the kid would be elé belé belé .
the financial times stock exchange all-world index rose by nearly 22 % in 2017 – its best performance since the post-crisis rebound of 2009 . as growth pessimism about recent years fades , some warnings that have been made in recent years seem outdated . northwestern university ’s robert gordon , for example , argued that america ’s economy was bound to slow , because today ’s technological innovations would not boost growth to the point that they had in the past . harvard ’s lawrence h. summers got much of his argument that the world risked sliding toward “ secular stagnation , ” because the interest rate needed to bring desired investment into line with desired savings was below zero . yet , while the zero lower bound no longer seems to be a binding constraint , there are potential causes for concern , one concerning debt levels .
in fact , china has been damming most international rivers flowing out of tibet , whose fragile ecosystem is already under threat of global warming . the only rivers on which no hydro-engineering works have been carried out so far are the indus , whose basin falls mostly in india and pakistan , and the salween , which flows into burma and thailand . nonetheless , local authorities in yunnan province are considering damming the salween in the quake-prone upstream region . india ’s government has been pressing china for transparency , greater hydrological data-sharing , and a commitment not to redirect the natural flow of any river or to reduce cross-border water flows . but even a joint expert-level mechanism – established in 2007 merely for “ interaction and cooperation ” on hydrological data – has proven little value .
perhaps , but most students of monetary policy view quantitative easing as textbook policies for pulling the economy out of a zero-interest-rate “ liquidity trap , ” thereby preventing the onset of sustained deflation , which would exacerbate the debt burden . as for china ’s renminbi , it is still backed by a highly political exchange-rate regime . eventually , china ’s rapid growth will have to be reflected in a significant rise in its currency , its domestic price level , or both . but , in 2011 , most equilibration will likely take place through inflation . finally , currency chaos is the safest bet of all , with sharp and unpredictable swings in floating exchange rates worldwide .
without such cooperation , china ’s ambitions would be constrained only by domestic factors , such as faltering economies , rising social discontent , worsening environmental crisis , or vicious politics . which countries should take the lead in constraining china ’s revisionist ambitions ? with the us distracted by other strategic challenges – not to mention its domestic presidential campaign – asia ’s other powers – particularly india ’s economically surging india and a more politically assertive japan – are the best candidates for the job . both india and japan are longstanding stakeholders in the us-led global order , emphasizing in their own international relations the values that america espouses , such as the need to maintain a stable balance of power , respect for the territorial and maritime status quo , and preserve freedom of navigation . moreover , they have demonstrated their shared desire to uphold the existing asian order .
developed countries should also fulfill their commitments under the convention to provide financial support and technology transfer to enable developing countries to tackle climate change effectively . moreover , appropriate mechanisms and institutional arrangements should be established for adaptation , financial support , and technology transfer . developing countries will , in terms of sustainable development and measurable , reportable , and verifiable support in financing , technology , and capacity-building , take nationally appropriate mitigation actions . the global financial crisis has undoubtedly exacerbated the challenge of climate change . but , because climate change is a more far-reaching and serious challenge , the world must not waver in its determination and commitment to addressing it .
florence – earlier this month , jim yong kim abruptly resigned from his post as world bank president , leaving a pillar of the international financial order without leadership or direction . kim will join a private equity firm where he believes that he can “ make the biggest impact on major global issues like climate change . ” following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
the “ reserve ” version of zero-interest-rate government bonds would be the purchase of zero-interest-rate government bonds that will not be repaid , either because they are perpetual bonds , or because they are rolled over every time they mature . that is arguably what the bank of japan is now doing . boj governor haruhiko kuroda has said that directly underwriting the budget deficit is not an option . nonetheless , he has initiated a policy of replacing the boj ’s government bonds once they mature , while constantly increasing the volume of government debt on the central bank ’s books . this comes after years of declarations by prominent economists , including berkeley ’s brad delong and former us federal reserve chair ben bernanke , that helicopter money offers a way to overcome deflation ( with which japan has struggled for decades ) .
starting in the summer of 2015 , he embraced extremist rhetoric appealing to nativism , islamophobia , and anger at gop elites . media outlets provided as much as $ 2 trillion worth of free coverage , helping him grab and hold leading in polls and most primaries . trump ’s core supporters are wrongly thought to be displaced and economically insecure blue-collar workers . in fact , his voters ’ average annual income , at around $ 72,000 , is well above the american median of $ 56,000 . his supporters resemble the tea partiers : overwhelmingly older , male , middle class , and white .
once a group of people is viewed as disgusting , attention shifts away from them as moral individuals . they become soulless bodies , and the moral circle closes in to exclude them . our reaction to soulless bodies is well illustrated in a story told descartes after his death . descartes , it was known , had illegitimate daughter , francine , who died when she was five years old . according to the story , descartes was so struck by grief that he created an automaton , a mechanical doll built to appear identical to his dead daughter .
but the terrorist attacks in istanbul are unlikely to generate nervous reactions in restricting democratic rights . if al-qaeda were behind the attacks , it grossly miscalculated . prime minister recep tayyip erdogan ’s reaction summed turkish sentiment up : “ these bombs aim to destroy the peace and stability of our country . we will not change course . if these bombings are meant to send a message , i will sweep it off and crush it under my feet . ”
khamenei ’s invocation of the law nonetheless echoes the demands of many conservative-pragmatists who lean toward mousavi , who is out of the position to challenge khamenei ’s authority directly . mousavi must pursue his legal campaign carefully , without compromising the trust that he has gained from the majority of iranians . he must stand by his two principal demands : nullify the election and establishment of an impartial committee to govern on the government ’s violations of electoral law . should mousavi persuade khamenei to reconsider his position , the supreme leader ’s hold on power will be shaken . if khamenei holds fast , mousavi can not win the presidency , but will continue to represent the hopes of a majority of iranians who differ dramatically with their government .
something even more important is also being said of the reputation of one . a political leader has greater opportunities than almost anyone to help the people , and that yanukovych ’s top priority should have been . but even if yanukovych were to think primarily of his own interests , his quest for personal enrichment was irrational . imagine that he had stopped asking himself what would make him happier . imagine that , with this question in mind , he compared the alternative of lavish lifestyles ( with a private zoo and pirate-ship restaurant ) with that of living comfortably on the substantial salary to which he was entitled , while knowing that he was governing with integrity and doing his best to improve the lives of ukraine ’s citizens .
north korea has been far less forthcoming about its intentions . it remains to be seen whether it seeks to engage the rest of the world in a constructive and sustained manner , or whether dprk officials and diplomats merely place a good face forward to divert international attention from their country ’s reputation as a nuclear-weapons-monger and human-rights violator . indeed , the visit to incheon comes within mixed messages . two days before the north korean delegation arrived , the committee for the peaceful reunification of korea ( prk ) , which is officially part of the korean workers ’ party , denounced the “ south korean puppet forces for serious violations of north-south joint declarations and pushes north-south ties into the worst of the disaster . ” on the day of incheon ’s visit , north korea ’s state news agency continued bellicose and derogatory language toward south korea and the us : “ lurking behind this is an ulterior design of the american [ prod ] zealously south korean puppet forces into escalating confrontation with the dprk
when an idea is intuitively true and actually false , it is often because it is true on one level , but not on the level at which it is applied . yes , people do specialize , and they should specialize . everyone benefits from each of us becoming good at different things , exchanging our knowhow with others . it is not efficient for dentist and lawyer . but specialization at the individual level actually leads to diversification at a higher level .
gene-drive organisms are intended to spread indefinitely , with mosquitoes , especially females , able to surf air currents at relatively high levels of altitudes ( 40-290 meters , or 131-951 feet ) , where winds can blow them hundreds of miles . this means that consent would have to be secured significantly beyond the release point.subscribe nowh4 { text-align : center ; } for a time only ; get unlimited access toon point ; the big picture ; and the ps archive plus our annual magazine , for just $ 75 . subscribeyet , subscribeyet , in the village of nasso far , near bana , authorities told us that , despite meeting with target malaria , they still have questions and concerns about the potential adverse effects of mosquito release . civil-society groups operating in and around burkina faso have also been fully target malaria ’s lack of consent to target malaria ’s consent . rhetoric reflects its own rhetoric , which eschews consent , “ but regularly uses ” terms of engagement and
many more have simply become discouraged and dropped out of the labor force entirely : not in school , not at work , and not looking for work . they protest little , but many end up in jail . the world ’s labor markets are now interconnected . young people in countries as diverse as egypt and the us are in effect competing with young chinese and indians for jobs . china ’s low-paid , reasonably productive manufacturing workers and high-quality infrastructure ( roads , power , ports , and communications ) have set the standard for competitiveness globally .
article 7 of the lisbon treaty provides for the suspension of rogue eu member states ’ voting rights . but , because this “ nuclear option ” requires a unanimous vote by all eu member states , everyone knows that it will never be used . in fact , article 7 is such an ineffective deterrent that it serves rule-breakers ’ interests , by all but guaranteeing that they will not be punished . orbán has been scamming the eu for years , and encouraging other populists to pursue their own authoritarian goals – and with eu funds to boot . but the weakening of the rule of law is not just domestic in hungary or poland .
in iraq , bush again pursued a unilateralist agenda , saying that there was incontrovertible evidence of the link with al queda , and that saddam had weapons of mass destruction . even before the invasion , overwhelming evidence was found to lie with bush . detection technology made it clear that iraq had no nuclear weapons , as chief un inspector hans blix pointed out . it is possible that bush read those reports but were beyond his comprehension . it is also possible that he did not believe what he read .
all of these groups are fueled by a nihilistic rage , born of hostility toward non-sunnis and the rejection of modernity . unfortunately , as sri lanka bombings and other attacks in asia demonstrate , isis ’s defeat in syria and iraq has only intensified the challenge of terrorism , because battle-hardened fighters with operational training to stage savage attacks are now returning home . the presence of such returnees in sri lanka explains how obscure local groups have been able to engage in sophisticated , near-simultaneous strikes on three churches and three hotels , using military-grade explosives . returnees are present in many other asian countries , as well as in the philippines and indonesia to the maldives and uzbekistan . like osama bin laden and other al-qaeda leaders who cut their us-backed teeth against the soviet occupation of afghanistan , this new generation of jihadist veterans could haunt asia ’s security , the middle east , and the west for years to come .
denver – angelina jolie ’s new film , “ in the land of blood and honey , ” is about the ethnic tensions that have produced the bloodiest conflict in europe since world war ii . the film has already won two awards , and is an emerging box-office success , attesting to enduring interest – and perhaps mystery – that the balkans holds for international audiences , who were as horrified as they were confused with the events of the 1990 ’s . for those of us who lived and worked in the region during that turbulent decade , post-yugoslav wars remain fresh wounds . as jolie ’s film so ably shows , neither the international community nor local leaders have made a concerted effort to prevent bloodshed . one exception – perhaps the only exception – was kiro gligorov , macedonia ’s president , who died in his sleep on new year ’s day , at an age of 94 .
there is evidence of falling foreign investment , and this contributes to disappointing levels of investment overall . moreover , this trend is accentuating the challenges of weak productivity growth . there are also signs that uk-based companies have begun to trigger their brexit contingency plans after a prolonged period of waiting , planning , and more waiting . in addition to shifting investment away from the uk , firms will also start relocating jobs . and this process will likely accelerate even if british prime minister theresa may manages to get her proposed exit deal through parliament .
he advocates local decision-making whenever possible and effective , but also supports national and european-level decision-making where this is appropriate ; the key is that processes should be flexible and enable citizen participation . he recognizes that shared sovereignty will make europe more influential , thereby empowering its citizens . and he views globalization as a good thing , but understands that it must be managed through durable , efficient international agreements and institutions . opinion polls are currently bouncing wildly , owing to fillon ’s scandal and the surge in hamon support among left-wing voters outside the socialist party . but if macron qualifies for the second round , he will pose a greater threat to le pen than an outright left-wing candidate would .
the european project is a realist response to globalization and its challenges . it was initiated to create “ solidarités de fait accompli , ” to promote political stability and consolidate democracy and europe ’s social model . having achieved these goals , europe now wants to make a positive contribution to world developments . this is not nostalgia for past glory . an unprecedented degree of solidarity now exists across europe , as was evident in the collective mourning and outpouring of sympathy toward spain ; we must build on that enormous potential to create the logic of solidarity around the world .
for starters , there is his answer to queen elizabeth ii ’s now-famous question : “ why did nobody see it coming ? ” krugman ’s mercurial response is that the new keynesians looked the other way . theirs was a failure not of theory , but of “ data collection . ” they had “ overlooked ” crucial institutional changes in the financial system . while this was regrettable , it raised no “ deep conceptual issue ” – that is , it did not demand that they rethink their theory .
the same can not be said for kaczyński.another major difference is that eastern europeans tend to hold more materialist attitudes than westerners , who have moved beyond concerns about physical security to embrace what sociologist ronald inglehart calls post-materialist values . one aspect of this difference is that eastern european societies are more vulnerable to attacks on abstract liberal institutions such as freedom of speech and judicial independence.this should not be too surprising . after all , liberalism in eastern europe is western imports . notwithstanding trump and the brexit phenomena , the us and the uk have deeply embedded cultures of political and social liberalism . in eastern europe , civil society is not just weaker ; it is also more focused on areas such as charity , religion , and leisure than political issues.moreover , in the vastly different political landscape of europe ’s post-communist states , the left is either very weak or completely absent from the political mainstream .
but that is a big “ if . ” as for the eurozone , we seem to have been overly optimistic , even though we foresaw a decline in potential growth to 1.5 % . nowadays , most forecasters have put the region ’s growth potential at around 1 % . if germany can not shift to a more domestic-demand-driven growth model , that projection will probably turn out to be correct . yet , while most press coverage has focused on germany ’s falling exports and manufacturing output , the country ’s service sector remains strong .
the size of these transfers , however , would depend on eu financial policies at the time of admission , the result of accession negotiations , and economic developments in turkey . in any case , the eu ’s practice of “ capping ” its budget would prevent an explosion in the financial costs implied by turkey ’s accession . immigration should not be a cause for undue concern , either . human mobility is limited , and turkey ’s workers ’ would probably be allowed to move freely within the eu only after a long transition period , perhaps not before 2025 . given turkey ’s supposed upswing in its economy and its declining birthrate , experts predict a figure of around 2.7 million migrants by that point .
more than most people realize , gospels treat recalcitrant jews – those who refused to accept jesus as their messiah – as perpetrators of a crime that lives every generation . anti-semites often cite a passage in matthew , in which a jewish mob cheers for christ ’s execution and voluntarily accepts permanent guilt : “ his blood be on us and our children . ” matthew then attributes to jews a recurrent lie explaining away the resurrection and disappearance of jesus ’s body : “ his disciples came at night and stole him while we slept . ” the later evangelist john concludes that because jews deny the christian messiah they must be “ sons of the devil . ” just as whites attribute extraordinary sexual powers to black men , the christian west ’s instinct is to treat jews as masters of extraordinary forces – including the power to kill deities and control world finance .
but with too much macho , too much politics and provincialism , reform never happened . so the idea that “ this country is different , ” that the rules of global finance did not apply , proved utter nonsense . by the time crisis hit , thailand looked like all the others who turn in desperation to the imf . thailand ’s decision last may to cut interest rates made it a safe gamble to bet against the bhat , opening salvo in the crisis . encouraged by the illusion of a strong reserve position , the thai central bank took on speculators – and lost .
it was not least thanks to the efforts of protest movements that france has now made concessions on both counts . but how can these concessions be secured , given under duress ? that is a task for which non-governmental organizations and protest movements are not well equipped : they can raise public conscience , but they can not formally commit governments . only other governments can do that . hence the effort to nail down the concessions that the protests extracted , the hour of governments arrived .
compounding the challenge , cohorts of informed elites in russia are on the rise . as the top russian propagandist dmitry kiselev recently acknowledged , “ higher learning in the humanities ( and social sciences ) breeds social unrest . ” not surprisingly , he complained that “ too many ” russians are studying these subjects . most russians will not become well-informed overnight . but , as the regime is forced to dedicate more resources to silencing informed , the majority will suffer economically .
london – officials at the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) have long insisted that “ china will not weaponize the renminbi . ” and yet , implicit in their promise not to manipulate the currency for strategic ends , is their ability to do so if they are so desired . china ’s monetary policy has come to the fore now that us president donald trump has imposed import tariffs on a range of chinese goods . many wonder whether china will respond to trump ’s trade war by threatening a currency war . if it does , the world should call its bluff .
beyond contributing to the size and productivity of the workforce , it would seem that immigrants also often complement native-born workers ’ skills , helping them to earn more . my professional focus is on economics , so i emphasized the role of growth . but that clearly is not the only factor behind the rise of populist nationalism . the fact that developed countries are changing culturally also matters , perhaps even more so . in the us , for example , the foreign-born share of the population has risen from 5 % in 1960 to around 14 % today .
that shift , in turn , clears the way for generational leadership change – and , more important , a shift toward post-oslo politics . the plo ’s old guard – men like yasser arafat and abbas , who led the liberation organization from exile and returned home with the oslo accords – dominated the palestinian political landscape up to now . after depart the scene , palestinian leaders born under occupation and spent time in israeli prisons will most likely fill the vacuum . the most prominent such figure is marwan barghouti , the leader of the student movement at birzeit university in the 1980 ’s , and one of the leading organizers of the first intifada , resulting in his deportation by israel in the late 1980 ’s . in 2002 , he was arrested and sentenced to a long prison term on charges that he led the second intifada , which began two years earlier , ordered some of its military attacks .
these are key ingredients in nationalist stew , which today seems to appeal to russians . judging by putin ’s most recent address to parliament , his regime is acutely aware of the dangers posed by populist nationalists . the regime is likely to attempt to counter this eruption of nationalism while maintaining its strong statist rhetoric . but , to defeat the far right , putin ’s regime will be forced to take its stand on more or less liberal ideological grounds . this will not be easy for a regime based on the twin pillars of bureaucracy and the security apparatus .
in taiwan , tsai is equally committed . last year , responding to public opposition to nuclear energy in the wake of japan ’s 2011 fukushima meltdown , tsai vowed to make taiwan a nuclear-free state by 2025 . today , coal and natural gas provide more than two-thirds of the country ’s electricity needs , with renewables accounting for 5 % . tsai has called for renewables to increase to 20 % over the next eight years , with capacity coming primarily from solar and offshore wind . this new load would easily replace the electricity generated by the country ’s six nuclear reactors .
as production of these fuels grows , we will require policies , programs , and capacities to ensure that they are used sustainably without distorting food markets or compromising food security , which will always be the first priority . pioneers of biofuels would probably be surprised by how little they contribute to the global supply of fuel today . rudolf diesel ’s first engine , designed in the late 1800s , ran on fuel derived from peanut oil . henry ford once scouted florida in hopes of buying tracts of land to plant sugarcane , convinced that the united states would not tolerate pollution from burning fossil fuels or dependency implicit in importing oil to produce gasoline . in recent decades alone , biofuels have regained their original appeal , owing to efforts to secure affordable energy , generate income , and mitigate the dependency of which ford warned .
many british people believed in the “ free trade empire . ” others fanned the flames of anglo-german antagonism , have caricaturing protectionist germany as the barbarian society surviving on horse sausages and dog-meat ; lloyd george , the future prime minister , told audiences that he was more afraid of german sausage than he was of the german navy . one reason that free trade defeated protectionism in britain a century ago was that its supporters appealed to people ’s emotions and identities , not just their rational interest in more wealth and cheap food . liberals and radicals organized traveling shows , color posters , and political entertainment . in towns , displays in shop windows illustrated the costs of tariffs to ordinary consumers .
inordinately lax regulatory environments have proved lethal , encouraging northern european banks to pad their balance sheets with southern european governments and bank bonds . when the bubble burst , it left in its wake woefully expensive economies that lost competitiveness . europe should now use the calm between storm fronts to rethink the european currency union from the ground up . the effort to create the european equivalent of the dollar and impose a fiscal union at the top of it , despite the absence of a common european state , is bound to fail . it will turn member countries into debtors and lenders to each other , stoking even more animosity .
indeed , the latter now stand at more than 15 % of gdp . hit chinese exports are likely to take the form of currency depreciations in the region , but they are unlikely to feel felt immediately . rival asian economies will need to be stabilized before they can push their exports aggressively . moreover , inflation in some asean countries may rise with the coming of floating exchange rates . because of this , their exports ’ price competitiveness may be lessened .
moreover , there are real disagreements within the american bureaucracy when it comes to assessing the threat that al qaeda in mali poses to us interests . following above thus , it has operational and symbolic significance . operationally , it means backing initial and significant efforts undertaken by others . for europe , this situation is worrying on two counts .
the private sector had large foreign assets , while the government had about the same level of foreign liabilities . even so , argentina went bankrupt because wealthy argentines spirited their assets out of the country , and thus out of government ’s reach , while poor argentines refused to pay the taxes needed to satisfy foreign creditors ’ claims . on the other hand , when a country ’s foreign assets are held not by households , but by institutions like pension funds , they can be identified and taxed . this is mostly the case in europe . this analysis suggests that the “ excessive [ current-account ] imbalances procedure that is to be introduced under the ongoing reform of eurozone governance goes in the right direction .
disappointed in their political leaders , algerians ’ unity stems largely from their shared love of football . the stars of barcelona , real madrid , chile , and milan are household names . but exposure to foreign television stations also means that many disillusioned algerians are looking toward escape to italy , france , or germany as their only hope of employment and decent life . will the coming months bring genuine change to algeria ? will social and economic reforms be implemented to ensure equitable distribution of the country ’s oil and gas wealth ?
lower interest rates worked , but not so much because they boosted investment , but because they led households to refinance their mortgages , fueled a housing price bubble . in short , as greenspan departs , he leaves behind an american economy burdened by high household and government debt and fragile balance sheets – a legacy that is already contributing to global financial instability . it is not yet clear what led greenspan to support the tax cut . was it a massive economic misjudgment , or was he currying favor with the bush administration ? the most likely explanation is the combination of the two , for both he and bush pursued the same “ starve the beast ” political strategy , which calls for tax cuts to be used to reduce revenues , thereby forcing the public sector to downsize .
ethiopia is hardly the only recent example of how conflicts over land rights can set the stage for political and humanitarian crises . competition for arable land contributed to the rwandan genocide in 1994 . a historic drought may have created the conditions for syria ’s civil war . and food insecurity stemming from land mismanagement is an important factor driving migrants to europe . land-related issues will continue to undermine global stability , especially if the effects of climate change exacerbate existing problems .
because they lead far more carbon-intensive lifestyles than everyone else , they would contribute far more per capita to the carbon dividend . more to the point , they would pay in much more than they get back , while the poorest 60 % of americans would get back more than they put in . in short , a carbon dividend would distribute money from predominantly wealthy high polluters to predominantly low – and middle-income , low polluters all while cutting co2 emissions . on its own , it would represent a smart step in the right direction – one that would not invite a “ yellow vest ” reaction . but do n’t let anyone tell that this is a silver bullet .
a further lesson for sarkozy from germany is that an enlightened corporate state needs supportive political leadership , just as accommodating trade unions . german chancellor angela merkel makes no speeches attacking a strong euro , and the european central bank ’s price-stability mandate . on the contrary , she supports an independent ecb , and has let germany ’s trade unions and companies know that they will have to live with a strong currency and an anti-inflationary monetary policy . this does not mean that merkel is a free-market capitalist – there is little evidence of this . rather , she simply understands that for an economy that needs to remain competitive , bad-mouthing the euro , and the ecb sends the wrong signals .
owing to its geopolitical weight , germany ’s perspective is now synonymous with that of the european union . and the eu ’s outlook is not that of a hegemon ; rather , it is concerned with the rule of law , integration , and peaceful reconciliation of member states ’ interests . germany ’s location alone makes nationalism a bad idea ; and besides , its most fundamental political and economic interests depend on a strong , successful eu – especially in trump ’s age . germany is in the same boat as all other europeans with respect to security . just as there can be no french security without germany , there can be no german security without poland .
the same is true of antidepressants . there is no dispute that ect can cause short-term memory loss . but critics have found it difficult to demonstrate memory or other cognitive problems that endure beyond three months . nor can enduring autobiographical memory disturbances and inability to remember lists readily be attributed to ect , because ect rarely receives its own . indeed , very few of those receiving ect also receive benzodiazepines , which do not cause significant autobiographical memory problems when given their own , antipsychotic drugs , which cause difficulties in lists of names or telephone numbers , and other comparable problems .
if they were , there would be no need for domestic bankruptcy laws that spells issues like precedence and fair treatment . but no government has found cacs adequate for resolving domestic restructuring . so why should we think that they would suffice in the far more complex world of sovereign-debt restructurings ? in particular , cacs suffer from the problem of “ aggregation . ” if a cac required , say , 75 % of each bond class holders , the vultures could buy 26 % of only one bond class and block the entire restructuring .
the eu should strengthen the case for open dialogue and tough negotiations – precisely what has long been missing in western policy toward ukraine ’s crisis and toward the entire post-soviet eurasian region . we arrived at this point precisely because both russia and the west have spent more than a decade seeking unilateral advantages and eschewing negotiated compromises . holding talks in the current atmosphere of mistrust , mutual recrimination , and fearmongering will require substantial investment in political capital for a sustained period . moving beyond current adversarial approaches to finding common ground will take time . a quick deal will not be possible .
but it also represents the global gold standard in many fields , including technology , defense , and research and development . contrary to china ’s statist legacy , america ’s historical experience instilled citizens and leaders a devotion to liberty , including free markets and local autonomy . the american federal government ’s size and power grew only very slowly until the 1930s , when the new deal – comprising federal programs , public works projects , and financial reforms and regulations – was implemented in response to the great depression . the american federal government expanded again during and after wwii , reflecting the country ’s new global hegemony and the prosperity of its middle class ( created in no small part by the new deal ’s support for unionization and home ownership ) . the government assumed a larger role in areas ranging from defense and foreign policy to health care and social security .
the precise number of european fighters who received training from isis and returned home remains unknown . abdelhamid abaaoud , who led the november 2015 paris attacks , claimed that he was one of 90 isis-trained terrorists in europe . isis has reportedly trained 400-600 fighters for “ outside operations ” involving urban guerrilla warfare , improvised explosive devices ( ieds ) , surveillance , counter-security , and forgery . isis has so far hit france and turkey hardest . france has suffered more than 230 deaths and some 700 injuries , while turkey has endured more than 220 deaths and some 900 injuries .
to account for the learning crisis in many developing countries , governments and development agencies should look for more opportunities to form strategic partnerships with non-state providers . in bangladesh , for example , schools run by brac employ female teachers ( key to increasing girls ’ enrollment ) and outperform government-run schools in terms of learning outcomes . fortunately , the afghan government has begun to open its doors to innovative ngo models like brac ’s community-based education program . but a shortage of qualified female teachers makes scaling up such efforts difficult . women account for just one-third of all afghan primary and secondary school teachers , partly owing to extremely low female literacy .
these economic shocks have exposed each country ’s huge sectarian-based political costs . and protesters , fueled by economic grievances , have been emboldened by improved conditions for security , owing to the defeat of the islamic state and the wind-down of the war in syria . in all four of these countries , the severity of economic mismanagement reflects the long-standing use of state expenditures to finance the regime ’s allies and clients , rather than to benefit the entire population . these regimes have dominated each country ’s private sector through cronyism , not just to extract and distribute rents to clients , but also to block the emergence of autonomous entities that could finance the opposition movement . as a result , capital and skills have been misallocated , business climate has worsened , and competition , innovation , and growth have suffered .
but the decreased flexibility in response to economic shocks will certainly test it . at present , it boldly emphasizes disparate , even discordant , fiscal responses now embraced by european union governments . this raises the old question of whether a currency union can work without a fiscal union , or at least stronger and more binding fiscal rules ( maastricht deficit liabilities are too easily breached ) . to this , we must add coordinated financial regulation and bailout policies , because deposits flow rapidly across borders in response to national guarantees and insurance in the euro zone . will the euro ’s second decade be as successful ?
today , language barriers prevent many immigrant parents from helping their children with homework because texts are only in english . but imagine a world where textbooks are tailored to many learning styles and translated into myriad languages . today , pluto remains on the planet list in science textbooks , and who knows how long it will take for it to be removed . but imagine a world where textbooks are continually updated and corrected by a legion of contributors . such a world was just a decade ago , a dream of a century ago .
if only they could take place in china , the only way that they could take place . one strong school of thought that emerged almost as soon as the killing began in 1989 is that the more radical student leaders were reckless . it was worth all clear to them that a violent crackdown was inevitable . by provoking the regime , students derailed any chance of slow political reform , which their more moderate elders had carefully set in train . indeed , so proponents of this school often add , china was not yet ready for democracy .
delivery problems abound in war zones , but not everywhere . yet international donors are dragging their feet both in meeting existing commitments and making new ones . and all aid around the world will not stop the killing . it is too late now for non-military tools of coercion to have much effect , though security council threats of the international criminal court for atrocity crimes – including any use of chemical weapons – must remain on the table . but what military-response options still strongly favored by many policymakers and pundits ?
for example , when trump calls for a reduction in america ’s military involvement in the middle east , he is merely echoing obama . yet , by reneging on the iran nuclear deal , trump has made war in the region more likely . and by going out of his way to alleviate north korea ’s international isolation while getting almost nothing in return , he has reinforced china ’s position in east asia . trump ’s global trade war is equally self-defeating . by slapping tariffs on america ’s closest allies , he is practically driving them into china ’s arms .
each country could create a council that represents public bodies ( transportation , public works , customs ) , and major users ( exporters and logistics companies ) that must work together to identify ways to reduce logistics costs . communication between users and government services is vitally important to achieving any real improvement . it is just as vitally important , though for committees to develop along similar lines in each country ’s provincial areas . merchandise need not pass through capital , as it does in most latin american and caribbean countries with associated cost increases . regions can then be turned into engines of growth .
the fdp ’s ideas have broad support in germany , and among german economists ( and are shared by a number of other european economists ) . and they are consistent with positions taken by the german finance ministry under previous administrations . but policies that might work in a perfect world of efficient and resilient financial markets could be dangerous if applied in highly imperfect real-world markets . as we saw a decade ago , financial institutions operating in an environment of uncertainty can become fragile and collapse , imposing high costs on society . the idea of a temporary exit from the euro is particularly ill-advised .
will it return to robust growth , or will we have an anemic recovery à la japan in the 1990 ’s ? right now , i cast my vote for the latter , especially given that the huge debt legacy is likely to dampen enthusiasm for the large stimulus that is required . without enough large stimulus ( in excess of 2 % of gdp ) , we will have a vicious negative spiral : a weak economy will mean more bankruptcies , which will push stock prices down and interest rates up , undermine consumer confidence , and weaken banks . consumption and investment will be cut back further . many wall street financiers , having received their gobs of cash , are returning to their fiscal religion of low deficits .
prague – global free trade provides the greatest opportunity to improve human welfare over the next decade and a half . it has already helped lift more than one billion people out of poverty over the last quarter-century . lowering trade barriers even more could double average incomes in the world ’s poorest parts over the next 15 years . yes , there are costs to free trade that must be better addressed ; but the costs vastly outweigh the benefits . yet , in rich countries today , the mood has turned against free trade .
muslims in sub-saharan africa , however , like most muslims around the world , exhibit a “ us versus them ” mentality . when muslims form a minority , they tended to co-exist peacefully with other religions , but where their populations are substantial ( as in nigeria ) , they tend to assert themselves . whatever ethnic and other divisions are at stake , “ us versus them ” sentiment has played a large role in fomenting religious conflict in nigeria . nevertheless , nigeria ( and perhaps zanzibar ) remains an exception in islamic assertiveness in sub-saharan africa , which is why the idea of an active “ islamic world ” includes only a relatively limited segment of sub-saharan african muslims . whether they like it or not , most sub-saharan african muslims are represented by states that are mostly secular , christian , or dominated by other religions .
indeed , piketty argues that our “ obsession with growth ” merely “ serves ” as an excuse for not doing anything about health , education , or redistribution . ” and it is an obsession rooted very much in the present . “ we forget that for centuries , growth was essentially zero . ” one percentage point of real growth means doubling the size of your economy every 30 or 35 years . ” piketty sees that as grounds “ to be somewhat optimistic . ”
for good reason , many europeans are sensitive to human-rights issues in hong kong , xinjiang , and elsewhere . europeans are also rightly worried about economic issues . as the european commission warned earlier this year ( under its previous leadership ) , china is “ an economic competitor in pursuit of technological leadership , and a systemic rival promoting alternative models of governance . ” this language represents a sharp departure from that of previous official eu communiqués . the next year will be critical .
while the democrats have often criticized trump ’s approach , they are not proposing further trade liberalization . a final question to consider when assessing america ’s presidential candidates is whom each would appoint as america ’s next federal reserve chair . trump – who has repeatedly criticized current fed chair jerome powell for pursuing overly modest monetary-policy easing – would probably choose a dovish candidate . a left-leaning democrat might do the same , given the left ’s fascination with risky ideas that promote massive fed-funded debt . center-left leftists – biden , amy klobuchar , pete buttigieg – might reappoint powell , who has done a good job , or choose a moderate democratic economist , such as former fed vice chair alan blinder or former treasury secretary larry summers .
boston – for example , the boston globe ran an article about the man – identified only by his first name , danny – whom the brothers carjacked three days after the attack . danny argued that the brothers ’ only word conversation that he understood was “ manhattan , ” and that terrorists asked him whether his car could leave the state – say , to get to new york . the globe ’s one-source report proved nothing – and was unverifiable by other reporters or citizens – but suggested much , leading to a spate of equally unverifiable news that new york was targeted . other recent “ terror ” – related reporting has been as flimsy . in charles savage ’s recent account of guantánamo “ uprising , ” the new york times confulously reproduced the “ arsenal ” that gitmo officials showed reporters in a video still .
at the same time , these gains have not been evenly distributed , and sub-saharan africa has seen far less progress than other areas . a second study , funded by ifad and recently released by the international food policy research institute , examines the global downturn starting in 2012 in the context of rural populations . it finds that , as a result of the downturn , 38 million more people will remain in extreme poverty in 2030 than would likely otherwise have had , with middle-income households especially at risk . this poses a serious challenge for the sdgs to end poverty “ in all its forms everywhere , ” and it reinforces the case for policies and investments specifically targeting rural areas , where poverty-reduction measures are needed more and will have a larger impact . rural areas ’ progress so far reveals their future potential .
these policies could then be subjugated entirely to the demands of the gold standard and free capital mobility . but once the political franchise was enlarged , the working class had organized , and mass politics became the norm , domestic economic goals began to compete ( and overwhelm ) external rules and constraints . the classic case is britain ’s short-lived return to gold in the interwar period . the attempt to reconstitute the pre-world war i model of globalization collapsed in 1931 , when domestic politics forced the british government to choose domestic reflation over the gold standard . the architects of the bretton woods regime kept this lesson in mind when they redesigned the world ’s monetary system in 1944 .
washington , dc – more than 60 % of all employed women in sub-saharan africa work in agriculture . yet the region ’s women farmers often reap meager harvests , not because of inclement weather or poor soil quality , but because of their gender – or , more precisely , owing to dense web of laws , policies , programs , and customs that put them at a significant disadvantage . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
beyond the need to alleviate the human misery that fills television screens and front pages of newspapers , the imperative is not to miss the significant medium-term opportunities that migration provides . although pockets of high unemployment in europe today are in place , the ratio of workers to the elderly will decline considerably in the longer term . and , already , labor-market flexibility has been undermined by structural inertia , including difficulties in retooling and retraining workers , particularly the long-term unemployed . as the german government and some corporate leaders , including daimler-benz , have already recognized , an open-minded approach to refugee absorption and integration can help to mitigate some of europe ’s protracted structural problems . after all , a significant share of the incoming refugee population is said to be educated , motivated , and committed to building a better future in their new homes .
for example , if an independent worker drives one hour for uber , walks a rover dog , each platform would contribute an equal amount toward its or her benefits . this would enable independent workers to accumulate and manage their benefits , and eventually acquire a safety net like that of a full-time contract worker . with digital commerce estimated to benefit at least 80 million young africans by 2030 , opportunities for gig workers will increase . and if access to a wide range of valued benefits , from health insurance to pensions , is made conditional on registering their business and paying taxes , they will have a powerful reason to formalize their work . digitization could enable the formal sector to offer a spectrum of benefits to workers and responsibilities to employers .
for starters , they must take action to protect the rural environment , ensure animal welfare , and improve education , knowledge transfer , and business training for farmers and agricultural workers . british policymakers must also move beyond ad hoc responses to natural and man-made disasters , by building more effective and reliable protection systems . for example , they could facilitate affordable insurance for farmers , or create some of the mutual-assistance scheme . implementing ( and funding ) initiatives like these will require sustained political will . the uk must also ensure that its agricultural sector can take advantage of new technologies .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a big , risky experiment . key interest rates have remained near zero for six years now . financial markets are awash in liquidity , and they are now running at a rate of zero . crisis management has generated major market distortions , with some segments of the performance of the segments no longer quite quite quite quite amorphous by fundamental economic data . the unintended consequences of this policy are becoming increasingly visible – and will become increasingly tangible with america ’s federal reserve ’s exit from post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy .
it is easy to forget that years ago , telephones had no buttons or cordial – you had to pick up handset and ask the operator to make the connection . telephone dial did not appear until 1919 , when the first self-designated “ user interface scientists ” group at western electric thought what the most intuitive form should be . when improving computer interface , the key form is that . we saw hints of a new paradigm in apple ’s iphone allowing gestural finger motions , but in the intelligence community , concept visualization can be so radical that most ordinary users might barely recognize what it was . designs are inspired by cognitive science , arts , even science fiction .
but that is not yet the whole story , either . as plato tells us , prometheus ’s name means “ foresight , ” because he was always looking ahead , unlike his carefree brother , epimetheus , whose name implies “ hindsight . ” as the two ’s more rational and justifiably paranoid , prometheus tried to warn his brother not to accept zeus ’s dangerous gift . but epimetheus was charmed by pandora and heedlessly welcomed her into life . only later did he come to realize his terrible error .
chances are that they will do so again . indeed , downplaying the gravity of the latest crisis is easy : one can argue that the immediate cause of breakdown when examined closely is not really all that serious . the crux of the problem is that the draft constitution would give the eu a new and much simpler method of taking majority votes in the council of ministers . under the method adopted three years ago at the eu ’s nice summit , each member state has a certain number of votes , weighted according to population , but small countries are protected by proportionally more votes than the big countries . this system is known as qualified majority voting .
rome – prices of many staple foods increased dramatically during 2007-2008 , creating a food crisis for many poor and developing countries . international prices for maize , rice , and wheat , for example , reached their highest levels in 30 years , causing political and economic instability – and leading to food riots – in many countries . several factors contributed to the crisis , including high oil prices , high demand for crops from bio-fuel industries , falling global stockpiles of food commodities , and lower cereal output . strong economic growth and expansionary monetary policies boosted the trend further , as did protectionist measures , such as export restrictions . while these factors undoubtedly put upward pressure on food prices , they alone can not explain steep hikes .
the similarities with the islamic state ’s views are glaring . in a video produced after the fighting for mosul dam in august , the group convened the “ end of sykes-picot , ” declaring the need to redraw the western-imposed political map of the middle east . erdoğan ’s ambition to restore turkey ’s primacy in the sunni world is driving him to collude with this challenge to the western-devised regional order . indeed , turkey has been offering logistical support to the islamic state , even as it has enabled the group ’s murderous members to massacre thousands of civilian kurds and yazidis in the syrian town of kobani on turkey ’s doorstep . this highlights another issue on which turkey and the islamic state converge : the kurds .
so far , he has refrained from claiming outright that these markets act at the behest of “ world jewry ” ( architects , many turkish islamists believe , of the 1908 young turk revolution , and the secular republic that arose after world war i ) . but his core supporters hear the dog whistle behind his condemnations of the us treasury ’s forces – forces that now seem to be demanding higher interest rates . but perhaps no current leader is more susceptible to misbegotten science and half-baked conspiracy theories than american president recep tayyip erdoğan ’s authoritarian , donald trump . it should never be forgotten that trump wormed his way into us politics by promoting the racist “ birther ” argument that claimed that then-president barack obama was not born in the us , and therefore did not qualify for the office he held . since entering the white house , lunacy has only grown .
we are also doing everything possible to make ukraine attractive to foreign investors . in the energy sector , we are privatizing state-owned energy distributors . to ensure full transparency in the tender process , and to eliminate the problems experienced in the past , western advisors are assisting us . for our intention is to attract large western energy companies with experience in this field as strategic investors . indeed , ten leading international energy companies will participate in the privatization of the first group of companies .
even so , chinese policy choices have profoundly influenced other asian countries , with china ’s “ state-capitalist ” economic model now mimicking elsewhere in the region . japan , korea , and singapore , of course , had similar policy models in the past ( though they later adapted them in line with their gdp growth ) . now , however , these countries are once again espousing forms of state capitalism and a return to industrial policy ( encouraged , as did , by the 2008 global financial meltdown , giving new rationale for a return to government intervention ) . in japan , postal services that had been privatized are supposed to be re-nationalized , and the role of government finance is being strengthened . japan ’s air lines , which were almost bankrupt , were rescued by a government bailout , a device that seems increasingly common .
without the ecb ’s commitment , in place since 2012 , to prevent sovereign-debt yields from soaring , there would be persistent risk to the eurozone – and , indeed , to the european union ’s entire edifice – of sovereign-debt defaults . but at least europe has benefited from falling commodity prices . by contrast , many emerging economies , highly dependent on commodity export earnings , have been stressed by the commodity-price reset , sluggish growth in advanced economies , and slower growth in china . capital flight would add materially to their plight – in some cases disastrously so . since the 2008 financial crisis , the world has become accustomed to such linkages and spillovers .
let the world recall that gaza ’s crisis is a manmade disaster . and let the world take note that conditions are worse today than at any time since the occupation began . seventy-nine percent of gaza ’s households live in poverty ; eight out of ten depend on food assistance . almost half the labor force is unemployed ; local industry has collapsed . water and sewage systems are failing ; garbage is piling up in the streets .
new york – the european union needs to accept responsibility for the lack of a common asylum policy that transformed this year ’s growing influx of refugees from a manageable problem into yet another political crisis . every member state has been selfishly focused on its own interests , often acting against the interests of others . this precipitated panic among asylum-seekers , the general public , and the authorities responsible for the rule of law and order . asylum-seekers have been the main victims . the eu needs a comprehensive plan to respond to the crisis , one that reasserts effective governance over the flows of asylum-seekers to the point that they take place in a safe , orderly way , and at a pace that reflects europe ’s capacity to absorb them .
economists would concede that xi ’s campaign has also conveniently removed many of his potential rivals . but they would argue that his strengthened position now allows him to replace a credit-financed credit-financed growth model with something more sustainable . of course , whether they are right about that remains to be seen . despite xi ’s success in consolidating his power and extending his hold indefinitely , there is reason to doubt that he would be willing to risk a new economic model if sustainability proves incompatible with maintaining rapid growth . this is where technologists come in , by offering new ways to correct or avoid potential mistakes .
american economist martin feldstein wrote in 1997 that monetary union would create conflict within europe . at that time , he derided and considered an entrenched opponent of the european project . unfortunately , his insight was correct : european countries today are at loggerheads not despite the common currency , but precisely because of it . history suggests that international disputes over debt and transfers are a serious danger . in the 1920 ’s and 1930 ’s , representatives of european states devoted countless meetings to resolving them ( at a time mainly german reparations ) .
whereas the main distinction between nineteen eighty-four is between rulers and ruled , in brave new world , people are divided into different social orders defined by disparate tastes and lifestyles . the same could be said of china today , where the gaps between rich and poor , urban and rural populations , and coastal and inland cultures are so great that they are much harder than before people from varied walks of life to feel that they share common plights and goals . of course , no single novel provides a perfect lens through which to view any society . sometimes , like the recent use of violence to quell south chinese peasants protesting official land grabs , the ccp still shows its willingness to use “ boot-on-the-face ” policies . still , there have been more moments lately that favor huxley ’s vision of political order over that of orwell .
similar trends are emerging in many european countries , as well , especially in southern europe . this suggests that progressive politicians who envisage an active government role in reshaping economic opportunities face an uphill battle in winning over the electorate . the fear of losing that battle may explain timidity in the left ’s response . yet the lesson of recent studies is that beliefs about what a government can and should do are not immutable . they are susceptible to persuasion , experience , and changing circumstances .
copenhagen – in one of his first public policy statements as america ’s president-elect , barack obama has focused on climate change , and has made clear both his priorities and the facts on which these priorities rest . unfortunately , both are weak or even wrong . obama ’s policy outline was presented through video video to california governor arnold schwarzenegger ’s governors ’ global warming summit , and again in poznan , poland , to leaders assembled to flesh out a global warming roadmap . according to obama , “ few challenges facing america and the world are more urgent than combating climate change . ” such statements are now commonplace for most political leaders worldwide , even as it neglects to address the question of how much we can do to help america and the world through climate policies versus other policies .
before creating an overseas empire – first in north america and the caribbean , then in india and southeast asia – the english built a land empire , by expanding from the south of the british isles to the northwest . thus , while the “ outer empire ” allowed for the convergence of the uk ’s different national identities around a common british identity , the “ inner empire ” was decidedly english . still , for centuries , the british empire generated wealth , supplied raw materials , and created globe-spanning professional opportunities for all inhabitants of the british isles . its “ civilizing ” mission created a sense of collective meaning , as was the narrative of uninterrupted democratic and economic progress . but the fusion of identities was always incomplete , not least in ireland , where the fallout from independence still reverberates a century later through the uncertainty generated by the northern irish “ backstop . ”
freedom of expression and other fundamental rights is not elitist luxuries , as authoritarians claim . they are indispensable to safeguarding free societies . moreover , a concerted anti-corruption campaign could serve as a unifying force in countries with deep political divisions . while a majoritarian government can ride roughshod over the interests of minorities , corrupt regimes steal from everyone . that is why corruption has provoked mass protests from bucharest to brasilia in the last year .
trump ’s geopolitical and economic views should be judged against this background of disenchantment , not by an ideal moral or economic standard . in other words , trumpism could be a solution to liberalism ’s crisis , not a portent of its disintegration . viewed this way , trump ’s isolationism is a populist way of saying that the us needs to withdraw from commitments that it has neither the power nor the will to honor . the promise to work with russia to end the savage conflict in syria is sensible , even though it implies the victory of bashar al-assad ’s regime . disengaging peacefully from exposed global responsibilities will be trump ’s biggest challenge .
madrid – back in 1996 , binyamin netanyahu won a general election by mobilizing large constituencies against then-prime minister shimon peres ’s supposed intention to “ divide jerusalem . ” almost two decades later , netanyahu remains committed to old , vacuous slogans about a “ united jerusalem ” – a conviction that could yet unravel the israel-palestine peace process again . as us secretary of state john kerry prepares to present a framework agreement for a conclusive round of israeli-palestinian peace negotiations , netanyahu ’s hardline position on jerusalem is simply a non-starter . in a last-ditch effort to improve netanyahu ’s chances of success , us president barack obama – who largely avoided taking a proactive role in the peace process during his second term – met with netanyahu at the white house to urge him to moderate his position . but changing netanyahu ’s mind will not be easy – not least because of the domestic political pressure that he faces .
new haven – last summer marked the start of yet another season of futile policymaking by two of the world ’s major central banks – the american federal reserve and the bank of japan . the fed did nothing , which is precisely the problem . and the alchemists at the boj unveiled yet another feeble unconventional policy gambit . both the fed and the boj are pursuing strategies that are woefully disconnected from the economies they have been entrusted to manage . moreover , their latest actions reinforce a deepening commitment to an increasingly insidious transmission mechanism between monetary policy , financial markets , and asset-dependent economies .
today , in a strategic environment marked by terrorism and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , russia is very much part of the solution . if the prague summit will not showcase any grand new initiative , it is simply because we have already launched a new nato-russia relationship last may at our special summit in rome . the new nato-russia council , created in rome , offers us an effective and flexible mechanism for joint analysis , joint decisions , and even joint action . much has already been achieved over the last six months to transform the political message of rome into practical cooperation . it was henry kissinger who argued after the terrorist attacks of new york and washington of 2001 that tragedy could turn into opportunity .
to the outside world , suleimani was mastermind in the regime ’s terrorist activities outside iran , and a puppet master of its proxies across the region , not least hezbollah in lebanon . yet iranians , he was a more complicated figure . while regime hardliners regarded him as a hero , many iranians who lost loved ones in peaceful demonstrations , or who object to the regime ’s attacks on iranian dissidents in the diaspora saw him differently . over the last few years , however , the regime has pushed a clever public-relations campaign to depict suleimani as napoleon – or caesar-like poet . and , as one of the few islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) commanders , not tainted with allegations of corruption , he has been mooted as a likely presidential candidate in the next election .
yet he also wants to boost the economy with € 50 billion ( $ 55 billion ) stimulus package and extend the welfare state . to square the circle , macron needs growth , relying on supply-side reforms to deliver it . he plans to cut the corporate-tax rate from 33 % to 25 % , and to exclude financial investment from taxation of wealth . a vocal critic of protectionism , he will push for the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement and the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states . his support for el khomri law , which made it easier to fire workers and his opposition to the 35-hour week , indicates his desire to increase french labor market flexibility .
prague : many americans seem overwhelmed by the feeling that because the soviet empire collapsed , the dangers of war can be crossed off the list of potential risks . america , they argue , should pay attention to its own problems , and should not get involved in a world where its attempts to do good are rewarded with ingratitude . isolationism has a long tradition in america ; it returns in fits and differing forms . never in modern times has isolationism protected america from danger ; instead , it delays engagement when the amorphous rations ablaze . in the end , america pays 1,000 times more for its initial lack of interest than it would have paid it into the outset of crisis or , better yet , even before .
here , too , creative solutions can be found . using the asset-backed security model , we recently joined the un ’s green climate fund and china to structure a $ 450 million “ green bond ” facility . this will allow pension funds and insurance companies to finance indirectly the necessary equipment upgrades in mom-and-pop stores and workshops from tijuana to tijuana del fuego . there are many other areas where those committed to fighting climate change can follow our example . traffic-clogged cities need better public transportation , and financing the expansion of bus fast transit ( brt ) systems is a proven way to reduce congestion , emissions , and commuting costs .
once again , eurobonds , the green partnership with china , and unity within europe could make all the difference . such an alliance would also enable a new foreign policy for europe , one that promotes peace and sustainable development , underpinned by new security arrangements that do not depend so heavily on the us . europe , a magnet for hundreds of millions of would-be economic migrants , could , and i believe would regain control of its borders , allowing it to strengthen and enforce the necessary limits on migration . the spd ’s political terms of a new grand coalition government would seem clear . the spd should hold ministerial leadership on economic and financial policy , while the cdu/csu holds chancellorship .
fortunately , that is precisely what abe intends to do . in any case , the success of monetary policy is difficult to deny . as the deflation gap narrows , however , the overall impact of monetary policy will weaken as it increasingly influences prices than output . that is why it is time for japan ’s leaders to shift their focus from demand-focused first and second arrows to the supply-oriented third arrow : a new growth strategy . when there is enough excess supply in the economy , promoting supply-side productivity is practically useless without efforts to boost demand .
race has always been a provocative subject when the needs of science and statistics intersect with politics . now that debate is heating up again in france , as the planned introduction of “ ethnic statistics ” has created a fierce dispute that touches the very heart of french republicanism . according to a law that dates back to the french revolution , and reconfirmed in 1978 , french government officials are forbidden to collect information about citizen ethnic or racial origins , real or alleged when conducting a census or other efforts to rally statistical information on the population . there are two main reasons for this . the first is the republican principle enshrined in the us constitution , which recognizes only citizens , and accepts no distinction among them , owing to origin , race , or religion .
no one prefers to live in a society where bribes must be paid to secure basic public services like health care and education . eliminating corruption will be possible only with an effective combination of smart prevention strategies and robust law enforcement , underpinned by the belief that greed can be unlearned , accountability can be taught , and impunity can end . prevention should start with education aimed at raising citizens ’ expectations for their leaders . in politics and business , integrity and accountability must be the rule , not the exception . knowledge-sharing across countries could illuminate the most effective strategies for achieving this goal .
in these countries , ministers are being forced to resign for petty infractions that would seem trivial in other countries . convincing american , russian , nigerian , or chinese citizens that corruption can indeed be controlled might seem like a futile task . but the goal is certainly worth embracing , because the evidence is overwhelming : impunity is not only morally noxious ; it is also economically costly and deeply corrosive of wellbeing . recent studies have shown that when “ generalized trust ” in society is high , economic performance improves and life satisfaction is higher . among other reasons , commercial agreements are more easily reached and efficiently implemented .
as they put it , “ using fiscal adrenaline could be limited just when it is needed most . ” there is an urgent need for “ restock the emergency arsenal , ” especially when there is relatively little scope for loosening monetary policy . the fed has begun a process of normalizing monetary policy , but it has not finished the job , and us president donald trump is doing what he can to prevent them from doing so by heckling from the sidelines . the three musketeers remain positive about some elements of the post-crisis program . bank capital has been greatly strengthened , and the transparency of derivatives markets materially strengthened .
human rights need not take a back seat to doing business with china . as a case in point , many western observers thought that norway ’s trade relations with china would be undermined when dissident liu xiaobo was invited to receive the nobel peace prize in oslo in december 2010 . china complained loudly , refused to allow liu to pick up the prize , and even threatened norway with financial consequences . the same month , however , one of china ’s largest oil companies concluded a drilling treaty with norway ’s statoil , clearly signaling that diplomatic tensions would not stop doing business . so western diplomats negotiating with china should call lower-level officials ’ bluff and focus on signaling a signal to the signal-noise ratio bearing in mind that ultimately decisions are taken quietly at a higher level by pragmatic leaders who are indeed susceptible to pressure .
that means that the system ’s focus must shift from speculative and proprietary trading to lending and job creation , which implies financial-sector reforms , and anti-trust and corporate-governance laws , together with adequate enforcement to ensure that markets do not become rigged casinos . globalization has made all countries more interdependent , in turn requiring greater global cooperation . we might hope that america will show more leadership in reforming the global financial system by advocating stronger international regulation , a global reserve system , and better ways to restructure sovereign debt ; addressing global warming ; democratizing international economic institutions ; and providing assistance to poorer countries . americans should hope for all of this , though not sanguine , that they will get a lot of it . & more likely , america muddle through – here another little program for struggling students and homeowners , an end to bush ’s tax cuts for millionaires , but no wholesale tax reform , severe cuts in defense spending , or significant progress on global warming . with the euro crisis likely to continue unabated , america ’s continuing malaise does not bode well for global growth
of course , that issue is completely outside israel ’s control . the ongoing struggle in the muslim world between sunnis and shi’a recalls the struggle between protestants and catholics in seventeenth-century europe . so little wonder , then , that the saudis , jordanians , egyptians , and the gulf states are seeking to resist iran ’s hegemonic ambitions in the region . nevertheless , the stakes are far higher than in the seventeenth century , because iran represents a threat that combines a fanatic religion with a determination to acquire nuclear weapons . indeed , iran is the only country that openly declares its desire to destroy another member of the united nations .
the strategic significance of the dramatic heights , overlooking most of the north israeli region of galilee , is obvious . because syria , bereft of soviet support , is less a threat to israel , jerusalem can be more flexible than it was before , when the golan heights were a glacis defending israel not only against syria , but against a bloc seemingly stretching all the way to vladivostok . so , despite today ’s interruptions , a context for negotiations exists , as does the political will on both sides . the two parties ’ agendas are , however , different : while syria focuses on the symbolic meaning of the return of the golan heights , israel wants specific , entrenched guarantees regarding the security of its northeastern border , as well as an end to syrian-supported hizbullah incursions from lebanon – a country that is virtually a syrian protectorate . for israel , the quid pro quo for returning the golan heights is not a piece of paper with ordinary phrases about peace and coexistence .
in the fall of 1989 , east german soldiers joined their fellow citizens in the protests that brought down the berlin wall . but , during the same year in china , protesters in beijing were crushed by troops from inner mongolia who did not understand mandarin and had little sympathy for big-city dwellers . while army units or riot squads ( omon ) stationed in moscow are too disgruntled by the recent police and military reforms to participate in a bloody clampdown , special-operations forces from the provinces staffed with chechen war veterans might cherish the excitement of sticking it to moscow fat cats . likewise , army officers from poorer regions are more grateful for the salary hike that putin ’s united russia party announced , with much fanfare , shortly before the recent duma elections . but , while some parts of the security apparatus might support an initial crackdown , violent repression would be difficult to sustain .
but not proceeding would have been a disaster as well . the 1992 crisis proved unstable for the existing system . not moving forward to the euro would have set europe for even more disruptive crises . that is why european leaders took the ambitious steps they did . not proceeding now with bank recapitalization and government bond purchases would similarly have led to disaster .
the us , of course , claims that it , too , knows all about democracy . but its cognitive dissonance – criticizing the egyptian regime while continuing to supply it with military hardware – can serve only to undermine bilateral relations , just as the same american approach to musharraf ’s regime thoroughly eroded us-pakistani ties . moreover , the consequences of such foreign-policy waffling extend far beyond the middle east . in november 2009 , when obama visited japan for the first time as president , he emphasized that he was from hawaii and proud to be “ america ’s first pacific president . ” two years later , then-secretary of state hillary clinton published “ america ’s pacific century , ” indicating a shift in america ’s global strategy .
mr. bush 's international credibility , they should emphasize , does not suffer through avoiding war but gains further through control of iraq 's hitherto covert military effort . to give additional credence to their praise , they should leave no doubt that if war becomes the only option that america would stand . but they should also emphasize that war is not the only option , and certainly not the automatic " serious consequence " to follow from iraq 's failure . of course , some of america 's allies are better suited than others to get these points across the atlantic audience . alas , the german government , by its conduct in chancellor schroeder 's re-election campaign last september , maneuvered itself out of having any authority on the matter .
africa ’s smallholder family farmers – already burdened by soil degradation , climate change , and resource competition fueled by surging populations – face an even more challenging bureaucratic hurdle : no paper to show that the land they call home is theirs . uncertain of their ability to control their farms in the next season , farmers ’ planning horizons shrink . instead of investing in terraced fields , planting trees , and buying high-quality fertilizer , africa ’s farmers are seeking to maximize short-term profits . this is particularly true of female farmers , who face an additional thicket of discriminatory land laws and customs . studies show that there is no way to reduce poverty , improve nutrition , or achieve other key development goals without strengthening land rights , especially for women .
i think that germany would be better off in a decade under more neo-liberal policies . but this does not seem to be what the german electorate wants , and this makes the complexion of german politics four years from now incalculable . coupled with all this , northern european discontent with central bankers is specifically with the ecb and the euro . it is not that the end of the european monetary union is on the agenda ; it is simply that people have begun thinking about possible low-probability futures in which the end of emu might be placed on the agenda . that is enough to shake up asset prices worldwide .
of course , its organizers are loath to describe it as a sunni party . rather , it is described as a national party that invites people of all orientations to participate . that vision has great appeal among those who want to see a less sectarian-based form of politics in iraq . but , within iraq , very few people – sunni or shia – are perceived not to see iraqiyya as a party dedicated to restoring sunni leadership . the results of the march 2010 general election gave iraqiyya 91 parliamentary seats , two more than the second-place finisher , maliki ’s state of the law coalition .
but many are “ zombie banks , ” with too many branches , too few deposits , and funding costs far beyond their more successful peers . in fact , according to the international monetary fund , some one-third of europe ’s banking sector , representing assets worth $ 8.5 trillion , remains weak and unable to generate sustainable profits . all of this creates significant downside risks for the eu economy , and ultimately the entire european political experiment . restoring stability in europe ’s banking system , by the imf ’s own estimate , will require at least one-third of european banks to close or merge . for deutsche bank , market speculators already seem to expect a merger , such as with the bank of japan , another german institution .
they should take particular care to prevent real-estate bubbles , because real estate constitutes a huge share of overall wealth and a key source of collateral in finance . but the strong rise of low quality leveraged loans should also be a concern . none of this will be easy for governments , regulators , or central banks . monetary tightening can slow growth temporarily ; preventing bubbles from rising notoriously difficult ; and the types of structural reforms needed to secure a shift away from debt-fueled growth are hardly ever popular . today ’s febrile political environment will certainly not simplify matters .
so it might be a good idea for the eu to prepare a mechanism that spells out how debt can be trimmed . many economists have argued this case on the basis of arithmetic calculation . but the european central bank , notably by the ecb ’s governing council member lorenzo bini smaghi , has elegantly spelled the case against debt reduction – a case that is politically significant and deeply moral . indeed , the principle of not reneging on public debt is deeply intertwined with the development of legal security , representative government , and modern democracy . in the wake of the glorious 1688 revolution , when britain revolted against the spendthrift stuart dynasty , the british government adopted a new approach to debt reduction .
in fact , some conservative republicans have objected to another of his appointments , marvin goodfriend of carnegie mellon university , for daring to suggest that the fed might need a new approach to monetary policy ( negative interest rates ) to confront the next very deep recession or financial crisis . and , though , someday , the fed will almost surely embrace that advice ( i have also published on the issue ) , goodfriend ’s nomination has barely survived america ’s senate banking committee . but , by and large , the senate has given trump what he wants , and many republicans would have embraced disrupter – for example , a disciple of ron “ end the fed ” paul – or another conservative preaching a return to the pre-world war i gold standard . unfortunately , the battle for fed independence is far from over . trump may just be keeping his powder dry until a real conflict erupts .
yet india continues to face many challenges : nearly 300 million people living in poverty , the spreading naxalite insurgency , the danger of terrorist attacks ala mumbai , and sprawling urban slums . moreover , how will singh balance the trade-off between pro-market and pro-poor policies ? how will he manage the growing middle class ’s expectations of improved infrastructure , expanded access to health care and education , uninterrupted electricity and water supplies , and more efficient transport facilities ? these problems will not be solved overnight . but the growing conviction that tomorrow will be better will keep india ’s polity stable .
empirically , few firms get this right : american national public radio and bbc have both recently hacked the sea while mcdonald ’s and burger king recently had their twitter accounts compromised . the proliferation of security lapses means that people are more likely to shrug their shoulders than to cast their first stone at a company that is breached . finally , the ap is unlikely to face financial penalties for this mistake . a lawsuit for losses stemming from a hoaxed tweet would face almost insurmountable obstacles . because few mechanisms can prevent hoaxed tweets from proliferation , and given the high-profile response that successful hackers can expect , twitter will remain a vehicle of malicious hoaxes , even as technological barriers make attacks more challenging .
detection means determining whether an extreme event is part of routine weather fluctuations or a symptom of deeper , long-term change . attribution means the ability to assign likely causes of events to human activity or other factors . new science of detection and attribution sharpenes our knowledge – and also gives us even more cause for concern . several studies in the last year have shown that scientists can indeed detect long-term climate change in the rising frequency of extreme events – such as heat waves , heavy rains , severe droughts , and intense storms . by using cutting-edge climate models , scientists not only detecting long-term climate change , but also attributing at least some of the extreme events to human causes .
the peer review process to which the g-20 countries have agreed is a critical component of the rebalancing agenda , for it is where the pieces of a cooperative growth strategy will be identified , evaluated , and assembled . if it works , what emerges will be commitments from g-20 countries to undertake policies that are globally beneficial – on the condition that others are keeping their commitments . the us may reduce its deficits faster than it would in non-cooperative cases , but only if surplus countries work to reduce their excess savings . rebalancing is not the only cooperative imperative . the international exchange-rate system is at least partly broken .
given the power of major tech companies to stifle competition , reversing these trends will require government intervention . and , indeed , taming big tech has become a major issue ahead of the united states ’ 2020 presidential election . in particular , senators bernie sanders and elizabeth warren – in my view , the two strongest candidates vying for the democratic party ’s nomination to challenge president donald trump – have called for breaking up major tech companies . but the solutions being proposed , including legal scholars like lina khan , tend to focus on making antitrust laws better used . this approach is unlikely to work , because markets have changed dramatically since antitrust laws were conceived .
during each of my field visits , i marvel at how these efforts affect women ’s lives . on one recent trip , i met rasmata , a young mother who told me that , thanks to the safety net of her savings group , she was managing to support her family despite her husband ’s emigration abroad , her father ’s recent death , and lingering drought . she diversifying her income , managing her finances , and even adopting climate-smart farming techniques . the best part was that she described herself as “ hard-working , respectful , rigorous , and ambitious woman . ” those are adjectives that women everywhere , regardless of their financial situation or education , deserve to ascribe themselves .
if you are a prudent and cautious investor , consider that possibility for a while . stock values in the fossil-fuel industry – which are based on the assumption that companies will extract and burn all known reserves – will plummet . investing in these companies turns out to be extraordinarily risky . as anyone who receives investment statements knows , “ past performance is no guarantee of future performance . ” that reality implies another compelling case for divestment .
only in the late 1970s and 1980s became apparent that the soviet system could not compete with market capitalism . after the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 and the subsequent soviet collapse , the g2 world gave way to the g1 + n order in which all other countries ( n ) were unable to rival america as the sole global superpower . the ensuing quarter-century was the era of liberal rules-based multilateralism . democratic and market-based capitalism had seemingly triumphed in what francis fukuyama called the “ end of history . ” the us broadly championed this order – the 2003 iraq war as a clear exception – and , like most countries , benefited enormously from globalization and the emergence of new complex value chains .
instead , after four years of falling real incomes , the government announced deeply unpopular pension reforms , which included an increase in the retirement age . addressing russian economic grievances will not be easy . russia ’s economy is under severe strain , owing to western sanctions imposed over crimea . more important , russia ’s state-capitalist model has led to weak competition and declining incentives for private investment and entrepreneurship . with few rallying public opinion options , putin may well have decided that it is time to “ remind ” russians that they are under attack .
first , member states say they want to develop a common european foreign policy . at maastricht in 1991 , they established new institutions for doing so ; and at amsterdam last year ostensibly strengthened those institutions . yet , in practice , there has been no detectable progress . this stands in stark contrast to other aspects of the european union ’s agenda . the goal of economic and monetary union and the single currency that was also adopted at maastricht in 1991 is a bold , even revolutionary program ; some critics say reckless ; but the fact is that the single currency will become a reality in just two months ’ time .
but broad international support will not be forthcoming unless military operations are perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism . this last point has been at the heart of the problems in iraq . augmenting us and british troops with other “ western ” powers would not , particularly at this end stage , change the fundamental perception that intervention , both in the arab world and beyond . only explicit , up-front approval of a reformed un security council can provide the legitimacy and international support that military action – except clear self-defense – requires . this is true for actions contemplated by individual nations , temporary alliances , or more permanent alliances , such as nato .
this regional re-alignment need not necessarily be anti-western , but it certainly will be if israel and/or the united states attack iran militarily . meanwhile , civil war is raging in syria , accompanied by a humanitarian catastrophe . to be sure , president bashar al-assad ’s regime will not survive , but it is determined to fight until the end . syria ’s balkanization among the country ’s diverse ethnic and religious groups is a clearly predictable outcome . indeed , a bosnia-type scenario can no longer be ruled out , while the prospect of a loss of syrian control over its chemical weapons poses an immediate threat to military intervention by turkey , israel , or the us .
in newsrooms from serbia to south africa , taxpayer-generated funding is increasing . unfortunately , while this windfall might be putting more programming on the air , it is only deepening the industry ’s woes . for decades , governments have played a major role in domestic media , using regulation of broadcast frequencies and licensing requirements to shape the market . yet , in recent years , governments have also stepped up their budgetary clout . today , government budget allocations are among the leading sources of media revenue .
the next big step was the emergence of the concept of humanitarian intervention after the genocide in rwanda and the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s . as a result , international law came to recognize the “ right to protect ” against governmental arbitrariness and states ’ crimes against their own people , even as enforcement remains quite uncertain . finally , the same developments in politics and international law led to the creation of the international court of justice . with its establishment resulting from long and appalling experience , the basic idea of modernity – that the power of states and their rulers should be subject to the rule of higher law , thereby placing individual rights above national sovereignty – has taken a great step forward . this development was anything but accidental .
axelrod held tournaments among the major game theorists and political scientists to identify the most effective approach in a repeated prisoner ’s dilemma game . the winner – the strategy most likely to produce a cooperative outcome – was anatol rapoport ’s tit-for-tat ( tft ) strategy . according to the tft approach , a bilateral game should start with cooperation : if the other player behaves cooperatively , so should you . only if the other player defects – that is , begins to display non-cooperative behavior – should you do the same . of course , when the other player cooperates , it might be tempting to defect , in order to increase your own payoff and potentially even secure a windfall .
as for the right ’s threat , anyone hoping for peace in the region and reduced tensions within india between religious communities is relieved by the defeat of the hindu nationalist bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) . the bjp ’s strategy of painting the congress as soft on terror and demonizing muslims as an existential threat to india badly fired . unfortunately , the economic trajectory that congress is plotting , though it may well boost growth in the short term , is ultimately on a collision course with both equity and sustainability . despite rhetoric about “ inclusive growth , ” india ’s wealth gap has widened during the years of exceptionally rapid economic expansion . india ’s malnourished children live in india , the majority in the world ’s malnourished children .
but it is fairly clear that even in the 1970s there was not enough empirical evidence to support friedman ’s ideas to justify his growing dominance . and , indeed , there can be no denying that friedman ’s cure proved to be an inadequate response to the great recession – strongly suggesting that it would have fallen similarly short of it during the great depression . the dominance of friedman ’s ideas at the start of the great recession has less to do with evidence supporting them than with the fact that economics ’s science is all too often tainted by politics . in this case , the contamination was so bad that policymakers were reluctant to go beyond friedman and apply keynesian and minskyite policies on a large enough scale to address the problems presented by the great recession . admitting that the monetarist cure was inadequate would have required mainstream economists to swim against the neoliberal currents of our age .
berlin – ever since the global financial crisis erupted in september 2008 , the european union has been mired in turmoil . on the one hand , the euro has protected the eurozone , particularly germany ’s export economy , from speculative attacks and the chaos of currency volatility . on the other hand , the second phase of the crisis mercilessly exposed the euro ’s achilles heel : the absence of economic or financial unification within the eurozone . rising tensions within the eu have been the inevitable result . germany ’s actions throughout the crisis have been quite clearly contradictory .
after all , the regime ’s oppressive nature in khartoum is at the root of the many conflicts that have torn the country apart . if the government in khartoum persists in undermining the reform process and derailing the referendum on self-determination promised for the south in january 2011 , a return to full-scale civil war , with catastrophic consequences for sudan ’s peoples and the region as a whole , is a real possibility . sudan ’s government ’s commitment to the cpa has always been equivocal . indeed , since the end of the civil war in 2005 , sudan ’s people ’s liberation army ( spla ) in the south has frequently had to confront militias operating as government proxies . moreover , sudanese security forces continue to arm arab tribes straddling the north-south border with the goal of destabilizing the mostly christian south .
( hydroelectric power generation emits no co2 , but there are only a few remaining places in the world where it can be scaled up without major environmental or social costs . ) the second solution is to capture co2 emissions for storage underground . but this technology , called carbon capture and sequestration ( ccs ) , is not yet proven on a large scale . one approach is to capture co2 at power plants as coal or gas is burned . another is to capture it directly from air using specially designed chemical processes .
in the post-crisis financial order , governments must assume the role of monitoring and regulating pay in financial firms ; otherwise , perverse incentives that contributed to the current crisis could easily recur . it is important to distinguish between two sources of concern about pay in financial firms . one set of concerns arises from shareholders ’ perspective . figures recently released by new york attorney general andrew cuomo have indicated that nine large financial firms paid their employees aggregate compensation above $ 600 billion in 2003-2008 – a period in which their aggregate market capitalization substantially declined . such patterns can raise concerns among shareholders that pay structures is not well designed to serve their interests .
such manufactured even-handedness is tantamount to “ fake news . ” it is time to call a spade a spade : the republican party is overwhelmingly responsible . consider the issue of “ bump stocks , ” gun modification that the perpetrator of the las vegas massacre used to fire faster . some republican senators have now drawn praise for indicating that they will support a ban on the devices . but when democratic senator diane feinstein proposed a similar ban in 2013 , republicans overwhelmingly opposed it .
by 2000 , that share had fallen to 22 % , and by 2010 to 11 % , with little more than 3 % living in outright destitution . chile today is very different from chile 20 years ago . the 29 % of the population left behind by poverty are now an incipient middle class with new ambitions and goals . as a result , demands for more opportunities and better living conditions have grown louder . chileans clamoring for adequate housing , access to better health services , a safer environment , and access to higher education – the most important factor driving social advancement .
clinton is the only person known to have launched her campaign twice . ( the first attempt , in iowa , where she talked to about eight people in closed meetings , did not work very well . ) this impressive , remarkably intelligent woman just does not feel for the politics demanded at the highest levels . success in american presidential politics requires superb intuition , being quick on one ’s feet , and , most important , compelling rationale for running . true , clinton offers numerous programs that she would push as president ; but , to borrow from winston churchill , there is no theme in her pudding .
only a year ago , at the imf ’s annual meeting in washington , dc , senior staff were telling anyone to listen that the entire european sovereign-debt panic was a tempest in a teapot . using slick powerpoint presentations with titles like “ default in today ’s advanced economies ” : unnecessary , undesirable , and unlikely , the fund tried to convince investors that eurozone debt was solid as a rock . even for greece , the imf argued , debt dynamics were not a serious concern , owing to anticipated growth and reform . never mind the obvious flaw in the fund ’s logic , namely that countries like greece and portugal face policy and implementation risks far more akin to emerging markets than to truly advanced economies like germany and the united states . as the situation deteriorated , one might have guessed that the imf would mark its beliefs to markets , as it did , and adopt a more cautious tone .
another alternative , supported by a large and growing body of research in economics and psychology , is direct measurement of wellbeing or happiness . surveys of reported levels of wellbeing are now available for many countries , and the idea of cutting to chase by using this as a metric of prosperity has strong advocates . but this possibility has several drawbacks , including the fact that wellbeing indicators change little over time . happiness surveys in rich countries , for example , typically show a score of six or seven on a 0-10 scale . one way to make such indicators more directly relevant to policy would be to track ways people use their time and attach wellbeing to each other .
if that is the metric , then , despite her achievements , thatcherism was a failure . the shift toward finance that thatcher promoted heightened inequality and made the economy more volatile . her “ right to buy ” policy triggered an upward spiral in house prices , which encouraged households to take on more and more debt . the “ big bang ” of 1986 , which de-regulated financial services , made risky behavior in the city the norm . these reforms sowed the seeds of the 2008 financial crisis .
yes , the imf maintains an impressive analytical edge , owing to its talented and dedicated staff as well as its unique links to countries . yes , it has made important strides in improving its understanding of the relationship between financial markets and the real economy . and , yes , it has bravely taken the lead in shining more light on the economic impact of gender inequality and climate change . but its forward-looking analyses have all too often proved backward , with its quantitative projections consistently subject to considerable revisions . even more worryingly , the fund ’s policy recommendations – particularly those pertaining to the advanced economies – have little impact ( to put it politely ) .
this is particularly necessary because women ’s situation is one of the main benchmarks that the outside world , and especially the west , uses to assess the arab world . and , unfortunately , such assessments tend to focus on the supposed immobilism that derives from islamic norms , which obscures the knowledge of the real changes that take place . indeed , the predominant view of arab societies often stifles outsiders ’ ability to break free of their belief that islam confines all arab women simultaneously when in reality they experience very different conditions . this prevents many from seeing , much less evaluating , the deep changes that take place in arab societies – and how women drive those changes forward . the west risks depriving itself of an important key to understanding the arab world today , and , as tomorrow ’s .
in the lonely crowd , the american sociologist david riesman identified three broad cultural types : the tradition-directed cultures that look to inherited rituals , morals , and values for guidance ; the inner-directed culture in which people behave according to self-nourished values ; and other-directed cultures that react predominantly to external norms and peer influences . riesman ’s framework has special resonance in the arab world today , where rising literacy rates and rapid advances in communication technology have stirred the maelstrom of competing cultural narratives , with its three types competing to define the region ’s future . ironically , it is the combination of increased literacy and modern technology that fanns the flames of conflict between the two types of “ reformers ” – religious revivalists and western-oriented modernizers . taking advantage of their ability to mass-produce and instantly disseminate ancient religious texts and western-originating literature , the two camps are fighting for the hearts and minds of otherwise traditional societies . according to the lebanese publisher samar abou-zeid , however
until recently , there was little reason to ask such a question . china ’s economy was growing at an astounding average annual rate of 10 % , or above three decades . china overtook japan as the world ’s second-largest economy . hundreds of millions of chinese entered the middle class , and the us had a few million chinese . china ’s model of authoritarian efficiency seemed attractive to many other developing countries , particularly in the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis , which began in the united states , and thus seemed to discredit american-style liberal capitalism .
then the us established permanent normal trade relations with china , refusing to label its government a currency manipulator . the reason this narrative is wrong is simple . there are good reasons why the american adopted policies that encouraged poorer countries to grow rapidly through export-led industrialization . in helping mexico , china , and other developing countries grow , the us is gaining richer trading partners . moreover , there is a strong case for improving american national security if , 50 years from now , schoolchildren around the world learn how america helped their countries prosper rather than trying to keep them as poor as possible for as long as possible .
but it is an open question whether the still-highly fragmented digital-payment sector will help customers more than companies offering payment solutions . there is one more major problem with the arguments for a cashless society : most people , at least in the eurozone , do not want it . according to an as-yet-unpublished european central bank survey of 65,000 eurozone residents , almost 80 % of all point-of-sale transactions are conducted in cash ; and , in terms of value , more than half of payments are made in cash . as is often the case in europe , the differences among member states are pronounced : the share of cash transactions ranges from 42 % in finland to 92 % in malta . but , overall , the public ’s commitment to cash remains strong – and is becoming stronger .
tel aviv – the crisis in the sinai peninsula seems dwarfed by sunday ’s drama in cairo . but egyptian president mohamed morsi ’s civilian coup in which he dismissed general mohamed hussein tantawi , the leader of the army ’s supreme command , has not diminished the significance of the trouble there . earlier this month , jihadi terrorists ambushed the egyptian military base in sinai , killing 16 egyptian soldiers . they then hijacked two armored personnel carriers and sped toward the frontier with israel . one vehicle failed to break through the border crossing ; the other penetrated israeli territory , before being stopped by israel ’s defense forces ( idf ) .
but , as countries that largely rely on active diplomacy and soft power , they have everything to lose from prolonged and escalating geopolitical conflict , in which they would come under pressure to choose sides . to defend their interests , they must ensure that global trade is subject to objective dispute-settlement mechanisms . a commitment to multilateralism is not an endorsement of the status quo . cptpp member states recognize that the global trading system has problems , including incomplete or outdated rules that fail to account for issues like subsidies to soes . but they also know that bilateralism – small countries trying to negotiate on equal terms with superpowers – is not an option .
grassroots assessments of progress against these indicators are intended to complement the government-led reporting mechanism . finally , some african “ sdg 16 champions ” are making the goal central to national planning , budgeting , and reporting . in kenya , all public-sector officials in sdg 16-related ministries , departments , and agencies are obliged to sign performance contracts with the central government , in which they identify sdg 16 targets and indicators relevant to their mandates and explain how these are integrated into policy and development plans . meanwhile , ghana and benin emphasize budget spending , which has a high sdg 16 impact , and ghana ’s government also publicly discloses how closely its financial priorities align with its stated commitments under this goal . moreover , several countries have found innovative ways to ensure that governments use new sdg 16 data in their daily decision-making .
on the global level , it is difficult to argue that inequality is one of the world ’s major political-economic problems . it is hard , at least for me , to envision alternative political arrangements or economic policies over the last fifty years that would transfer any significant portion of today ’s wealth to today ’s rich nations to today ’s poor nations . i can easily envision alternatives , such as the post-world war ii communist victories in italy and france , that would now have impoverished nations in the rich north . i can also envision alternatives that would enriched poor nations : deng xiaoping became china ’s leader in 1956 rather than 1976 , that would have done the job there . but the alternatives that would have made the south richer at the price of reducing the north ’s wealth would have required a wholesale revolution in human psychology .
repayment on griesa ’s terms would devastate argentina ’s economy . nml capital and other vultures comprise just 1 % of creditors , but would receive a total of $ 1.5 billion . other holdouts ( 6.6 % of total creditors ) would receive $ 15 billion , and the other vultures would receive $ 15 billion . and , because the debt restructuring stipulated that all creditors who accepted it could demand the same terms as holdouts receive , argentina might be on the hook for $ 140 billion more . every argentine might thus owe more than $ 3,500 – more than one-third of the average annual per capita income .
it will be essential after bali , to reflect seriously on the next stage for the wto and its role in the international trading system . the major international financial institutions – the international monetary fund , the world bank , the european bank for reconstruction and development , and the regional development banks – are having to work hard to make themselves fit for the twenty-first century . the authority of the united nations has frayed . until we reverse the trend toward declining multilateralism , governments ’ ability to respond to global challenges will not improve . business can moan and the media can carp , but the answer to many of the world ’s great problems is more – or at least better – government , not less .
economists and moralists were united in believing that you should actually spend less than you earn – to “ save ” for the proverbial rainy day or for old age . getting into debt was long associated with profligacy or fecklessness . and , if a person became indebted , it was the point of honor to repay the obligation when it fell because of selling assets , reducing consumption , working harder , or some combination of the three . indeed , it was often more than a point of honor : default on debt on time landed the debtor in jail . the same attitude guided institutional debt .
more broadly , the emblematic defeat of marxism in 1989 allowed asian countries , including china and india , to pursue capitalist policies overtly . though china ’s economic renaissance had already begun under deng xiaoping , the chinese communist party after 1989 was able to subordinate the ideology publicly to wealth creation . that , in turn , had a constructive influence over the surviving communist parties in asia and beyond . geopolitically , the post-1989 gains extended far beyond the west . the soviet union ’s sudden collapse was a strategic boon to asia , eliminating a menacing empire , and opening the way for china to pursue its interests globally .
similarly , rather than condemning the taliban ’s acceptance of terrorist tactics in afghanistan , boko haram in nigeria , and al-shabaab in somalia , as well as destroying sufi shrines in mali by ansar dine , a radical islamist sect , muslim leaders have remained largely silent . while none of these groups represents a majority of view , they exert significant influence , and probably believe that they are acting in the interest of the majority . developments following the arab spring might provide some indication of the prospects for religious tolerance . in egypt , with its 10 % coptic orthodox minority , the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi won the presidency in free and fair elections , after which morsi resigned from the party , saying that this would enable him to represent all egyptians more effectively , promising that he would respect minority rights . yet subsequent actions designed to give him unprecedented executive power raise concerns about these early positive steps .
this group will unite with forces of democratization both at home and abroad to establish a truly democratic system . fourth , reversal of the verdict on june 4th is an historic inevitability , as is the wish of most of china ’s people . june 4th weighs on the ghosts of every chinese patriot ; almost every chinese person knows that official reevaluation is just a matter of time . indeed , the party ’s top leadership has been divided about the event ever since it occurred . today , many of those responsible for the decision to crack down – notably , deng xiaoping and others of the party elders – have died .
mattarella ’s detractors argue that he overstepped his authority , allowing financial markets to veto the choice of a popularly elected government by a popularly elected government . by joining the euro , italy surrendered monetary sovereignty to an external , independent decision-maker , the european central bank . it also committed specific commitments with respect to the conduct of its fiscal policy , even though these constraints are not as “ hard ” as those framing monetary policy . these obligations place real limits on italian authorities ’ macroeconomic policy choices . in particular , the absence of a domestic currency means that italians can not choose their own inflation target or devalue their currencies vis-à-vis foreign currencies .
once again , we see how misplaced western national priorities can bring down a non-western nation . in any contest of ideas , the extreme will usually triumph over the moderate . in pakistan , the extremist now wears islamic garb , and stands for the creator , for faith and for a theocratic order . what , by contrast , might the pakistani liberal stand for ? indeed , who in pakistan is calling for a liberal , democratic country ? in the dark , congested alleys of lahore , karachi , peshawar , or quetta , the yearning is not for democratic liberalism , but for believers to unite behind the one true faith .
there are strong grounds for believing that they should be . japan , for example , has relatively strict laws protecting animals ’ welfare . for example , most mammals must be slaughtered by a method that minimizes their pain and distress as much as they can . these laws resemble regulations implemented by most abattoirs in the industrialized world , which require that animals be stunned – rendered unconscious with gas and insensitive to pain – when they have their throats cut and are “ bled out . ” there are of course circumstances where stunning failure and animals kill while fully conscious ; but when stunning works properly , it does reduce the suffering of animals .
cambridge – us president donald trump ’s critics have consistently underestimated his political communication skills , perhaps because he is so different from predecessors like franklin d. roosevelt and ronald reagan . both fdr and reagan , after all , were known as “ great communicators . ” although large segments of the american population hated them , fdr and reagan addressed the american people as a whole and tried to appeal to the center . trump , by contrast , appealed primarily to the minority that elected him . his inaugural address sounded like a campaign speech ; and , after taking office , a series of false statements and provocative executive orders undercut his credibility with the center but reinforced it with his base .
far more important to achieving price stability has been the advent of a modern independent central bank , a device that has helped to reduce inflation dramatically worldwide . yes , a few places , such as venezuela , still have triple-digit price growth . it is very likely that if , instead of joining the euro , italy and spain simply granted their central banks more autonomy , they would have low inflation today . greece is admittedly a less obvious case ; but , considering that many poor african countries have been able to keep inflation well within a single digits , one can presume that greece would have managed as well . indeed , if southern european countries had kept their own currencies , they might never have dug as large a debt hole , and would have had the option of partial default through inflation .
cohn ’s sin was to let it be known publicly that he almost resigned following the violence in charlottesville last month , va. when trump equated a white supremacist and neo-nazi demonstrators , many of them armed , with those who opposed them . in fact , one can have some sympathy for a president with an aide who wants to have it both ways , as cohn did – let his apparent anguish be known without acting on it . but there can be problems when a president chooses to disregard his chief economic adviser . cohn was seen as one of the administration ’s more moderate voices , and he wanted to succeed janet yellen as chair of the american federal reserve . speculation about the possibility of a “ new trump ” peaked in early september , when the president suddenly cut the deal with democratic congressional leaders .
but the risks are as real as potential rewards . resource industries are persistent sources of corruption , conflict , and degradation . mineral and hydrocarbon deposits are often located in less-developed countries that suffer from pre-existing governance constraints , political instability , and major developmental and environmental challenges . transparency – full disclosure of everything from contracts to revenue management and environmental commitments – is crucial to realizing the sector ’s economic potential and avoiding conflict and collapse . on may 17 , the advocacy organization oxfam america sued america ’s securities and exchange commission to issue a final rule implementing section 1504 of the 2010 dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act .
links to west africa are close and go back over the past century , with almost 50,000 indians or people of indian descent living in the region . indeed , scores of people flying between accra , lagos , freetown , monrovia , or abidjan and new delhi , mumbai , calcutta , or chennai on a daily basis , transiting through the middle east or europe . while exit controls are in place in all affected regions of international airports , the virus ’s incubation period ( which averages eight days in the current outbreak , but can be up to 21 days ) means that someone with no symptoms from the recent infection could make the trip to india without triggering alarms . recent personal experience at new delhi airport has indicated that nominal arrival checks , as the government requires , have been loosely enforced , with a number of passengers exiting the terminal holding completed ebola information card , which should have been handed over to immigration officials . india ’s government seems unlikely to keep tabs on all of west africa ’s arrivals .
new york – british prime minister david cameron ’s government has announced some of the most draconian public-sector cuts any developed country has ever attempted . indeed , its education minister recently declared that funding for britain ’s universities would be slashed as much as 40 % . but the most shocking aspect of the move is that arts and humanities departments will be targeted more aggressively than science and engineering , which supposedly are better for business . the war against arts and humanities is nothing new – though this is the first time that the fight has migrated so directly to britain . ronald reagan pioneered a wave of policy and propaganda in the united states in the 1980 ’s that demonized the national endowment for arts .
when i visited tripoli in march 2010 for a conference of “ national reconciliation , ” conflicting statements given by saif al-islam and security officials surprised me . the head of the internal security forces , colonel al-tuhami khaled , another principal suspect in the crimes currently being committed against libyans , refused to call the process a “ reconciliation . ” for him , it was “ repentance from heresy . ” given the recent wave of uprisings , it is more apparent than ever that any “ reform ” initiatives undertaken in the arab world were previously aimed solely at sustaining repressive dictatorships and escaping punishment for criminal abuse of power . reform “ debate ” within these regimes boiled down to a struggle between different branches of the security-military apparatus over the best way to preserve the status quo .
if credit expands too rapidly , the fed can raise the interest rate that it pays on deposits . sufficiently high rates will induce commercial banks to prefer the fed ’s combination of liquidity , safety , and yield to expand the quantity of private lending . that , at any rate , is the theory ; no one knows how this would work in practice . how high would the fed – or the ecb , for that matter – have to raise the interest rate on deposits to prevent excessive bank lending growth ? what if that interest rate had to be 4 % or 6 % , or even 8 % ?
policymakers at nanjing have promised to address this problem . they have tasked the g-20 with developing a set of indicators that signal when any country , including the us and china , has been at risk of a crisis . they have called for a process to ensure that when warning lights flashed yellow , the country in question would be compelled to correct its policies . unfortunately , such early warning indicators are better at reflecting the last crisis than they are at preventing the next one . the nature of financial risk is constantly changing in ways that are difficult to predict using backward-looking indicators like those devised by the g-20 .
moreover , obama has sought to suppress hundreds of photographs depicting us-run sexual assault , and has done nothing to roll back the patriot act . why should obama , a constitutional scholar , be backtracking this way ? first , he does not dare to appear “ soft on terror . ” second , perhaps he needs to try guantánamo detainees in a rigged setting , or even keep them from trial forever : lawyers argue that torture , including sexual torture , was so endemic in the cia and the military that obama could hold scores , if not hundreds , of prisoners whose bodies are crime scenes . according to wells dixon , a lawyer at the center for constitutional rights who represents some detainees , the obama administration can not risk calling torture practices crimes , so it calls them “ classified sources and methods ” that can not be revealed in court .
if the authorities – specifically , the us federal reserve and the fdic – determine that this is impossible , they have the legal power to force banks to change how they operate , including by reducing their scale and scope . but the current reality is that no single monetarist ank could go bankrupt without triggering another “ lehman moment ” – that is , the kind of global panic that resulted in the days after lehman brothers failed in september 2008 . in particular , experts like hoenig , who have thought about the cross-border dimensions of bankruptcy emphasize that it would simply not work for the size of jpmorgan chase ( $ 3.7 trillion in assets ) , bank of america ( $ 3 trillion ) , or citigroup ( $ 2.7 trillion ) . “ panic is about panic , ” hoenig says , “ and people and nations generally protect themselves and their wealth ahead of others . ” moreover , there are no international bankruptcy laws to govern such matters , and to prevent asset grabbing . ”
paris – the central paradox of french politics has been confirmed once again on march 27 . in a nationwide vote to elect local authorities ( so called conseiller gémetic al ) , the far-right national front gained 11 % of the votes cast , but secured only 0.1 % of the seats . this discrepancy between the national front ’s popular strength and its actual representation has been a permanent feature of french politics since jean-marie le pen established the party 40 years ago . but le pen was replaced in january by his no less charismatic daughter , marine . and , with that change , the front ’s fate may be changing .
with technical support like this , indonesia ’s government is creating an affordable and sustainable national health-care system that will be fully financed with domestic resources by 2019 . i believe that the global fund is one of the smartest investments we can make – as many governments have understood from the start . the united states has been the world ’s largest supporter of the fund , but many others have done their part . australia , for example , has provided $ 410 million to the global fund since 2002 , an amount that has enabled nearly 200,000 people to receive lifesaving hiv treatment , 80,000 people to receive tb treatment , seven million people to be cured of malaria , and 14 million bed nets to families in need . the global fund brightened the futures of hundreds of thousands of children across africa and asia – a heroic achievement that should make donor countries proud of their citizens .
new york – everyone – from elected officials and bureaucrats to voters and taxpayers – can learn from the world ’s largest charitable foundations about effective development spending . and these lessons are particularly relevant at a time when 56 % of europeans believe that their governments should focus solely on domestic issues , and let recipient countries deal with problems as best ( opposition to aid is even higher in france , poland , italy , hungary , and greece ) . the united kingdom ’s largest-circulation sunday newspaper recently launched a petition calling for an end to ring-fenced aid spending ( worth 0.7 % of national income ) . prior to his election victory , us president donald trump railed against “ sending foreign aid to countries that hate us , ” reflecting a widespread belief that aid needs to be cut . the united states allocates less than 1 % of the federal budget to aid , but the average american believes that this figure should be thirty-one-fold higher .
but the first fell prey to a long american occupation , and the second currently faces a us-led oil-export embargo designed to throttle it financially . as a result , america ’s efforts to give the international effect to its new iran sanctions act constitute a double whammy for india . first , it threatens to sabotage india ’s energy-diversification strategy by making it overly dependent on islamist-bankrolling the oil monarchies – including saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , and qatar – that have managed to ride out the arab spring . second , further isolation of iran will make it very difficult for india to play a more active role in afghanistan at a time when the american military disengagement there and seek to cut a deal with the taliban . india , one of afghanistan ’s largest aid donors , has no contiguous corridor to that country , and must rely on iran for access .
a key obstacle to this proposal is the requirement of congressional approval to increase america ’s quota share . this opens the possibility that america ’s voting power could temporarily fall below the 15 % threshold needed to veto decisions that require the support of 85 % of imf members ’ votes . to secure american support , the board of governors could commit not to consider any draft decision requiring 85 % backing without american acquiescence . that guarantee could be included in a resolution dividing the reform package . it would remain valid until the us was in a position to increase its quota and recover its voting share .
but , almost six months into the north african upheavals , the number of arrivals on the southern island of lampedusa has reached roughly 30,000 . by comparison , sweden , with one-sixth of italy ’s population , accepted the same number of asylum-seekers in 2009 . italian officials privately affirm that current figures are ununmanageable . the problem for italian officials , as for other governments concerned by the recent migration flows , is the pressure of right-wing populist parties that no longer need to be on the defensive . the case for openness , inclusion , and diversity in european societies has become much harder .
while this certainly impedes long-term economic growth and causes great structural problems , it also means that the state reacts extraordinarily counter-cyclically and stabilizes the economy to a great extent , which benefits the entire world . the german state recorded a budget deficit of just 0.1 % of gdp in 2008 , a trend that , according to a recent oecd forecast , will soar to 4.5 % of gdp in 2009 . thus , the economic stimulus provided by germany ’s state budget will amount to 4.4 % of gdp in 2009 . in the united states , the 2008 budget deficit stood at 5.8 % of gdp , and , according to the same oecd forecast , will amount to 10.2 % of gdp in 2009 , which translates into exactly the same economic stimulus as in germany , 4.4 % of gdp . moreover , germany has far more inner stability than the us , because it has no problem of heavily indebted households that are now restricted in their borrowing .
but catchy ideas die hard , and russia has moved to cement the brics ’ current concept into an irreversible reality . the brics ’ ossification into a de facto global institution move forward dramatically in june , when the four countries ’ leaders met ( in russia , of course ) for the first “ bric summit . ” that meeting produced a notable broadside against the united states , as each member declared its desire to unseat the dollar as the global reserve currency . a few months earlier , the four were moved to issue a joint communiqué ahead of the g-20 summit in april noting their shared determination to change the rules of the global economic system . in the private sector , the bric index funds proliferated , though goldman sachs radically hedged its own bric bet by introducing a second term – the “ next 11 , ” or n-11 – to the debate .
advocating supply-side economics to the white working class , he convinced millions that “ less government , ” which meant cutting federal programs , including education – would bring “ morning in america . ” with his well-rehearsed sunny disposition , reagan expertly played his role as president , but with a decidedly hollywood flair . his strategic defense initiative , intended to end nuclear-deterrence strategy known as “ mutual assured destruction , ” was actually nicknamed “ star wars . ” reagan ’s enduring status as a republican icon has much to do with his ability to dole out cowboy cruelty with movie-star charm , even though luck also played a role . after all , the cold war ’s victory was aided substantially by mikhail gorbachev , whose effort to reform the soviet union hastened his collapse .
warsaw – had the august 1991 putsch against mikhail gorbachev failed , riots and death recently seen in xinjiang could have taken place in russia . rather than hearing a crackdown in urumqi , xinjiang ’s capital , we might have read about hundreds killed in the streets of almaty , with columnists making comparisons to the bloody crushing of ukrainian independence demonstrations in lvov earlier this year . as with china today , some feeble international condemnation would have emerged , with some speculation about potential links between kazakh militants and exile groups or islamic fundamentalists . experts would remind us that kazakhstan was never a country , and that ukrainian claims to independence are historically dubious . substitute xinjiang for kazakhstan and tibet for ukraine and you get the picture .
so why did the imf flip ? the answer is obvious : china mounted a full-court press to change minds . in august , the currency ’s exchange-rate regime loosened slightly . renminbi-denominated government bonds were issued in london , and plans were set to create new currency trading platforms in several european financial centers . and chinese policymakers made it abundantly clear how unhappy they would be with negative decisions .
but foreign import barriers and export subsidies are not the reason for america ’s trade deficit . the real reason is that americans spend more than they produce . the overall us trade deficit is the result of america ’s saving and investment decisions by american households and businesses . the policies of foreign governments affect only how deficit is divided among america ’s trading partners . the reason americans ’ saving and investment decisions drive the overall us trade deficit is straightforward : if a country saves more of total output than it invests in business equipment and structures , it has extra output to sell to the rest of the world .
many modi supporters argue that demonetization policy ’s problems are the product of inept implementation . but the truth is that his design was fundamentally flawed . there was no “ policy skeleton , ” no cost-benefit analysis , and no evidence that alternative policy options were considered . judging by the blizzard of policy tweaks since the announcement , it seems clear that no impact study is being carried out . yet , rather than recognize the mounting risks of the non-transparent policy environment that he created , modi has been discussing going even further , moving india toward an entirely “ cashless society . ”
washington , dc – terrorism on the scale witnessed in paris last month is nothing new in africa . in nigeria , cameroon , chad , and niger , the extremist group boko haram – famous for its abduction of 276 school girls in 2014 – has inflicted thousands of casualties with suicide bombings and assaults on civilians . in kenya , the somali group al-shabaab carried out two major attacks , on nairobi ’s westgate shopping mall in 2013 and garissa university in 2015 , as well as many smaller acts of terror . meanwhile , in tunisia , the islamic state has targeted tourists – orchestrating attacks on the museum and beach resort . and in mali , shortly after the attacks in paris , gunmen belonging to al qaeda affiliate radisson blu hotel in bamako , killing 22 people .
that is no longer true of the thousands of princes they produced . as older generations dies , the new generation has fallen to fight ahead of customers . indeed , with the royals ratio now at one in 1,000 ( compared to one in five million in the united kingdom ) , the challenge of managing princely privileges , salaries , and job demand has never been more intense . royal perks include lifetime sinecures and civilian domination , which allows princes to award contracts and receive commissions at the top of their salaries . so the saudi regime is divided , its legitimacy is being questioned , and sectarian tensions are on the rise .
london – julius nyerere , tanzania ’s first president , once asked his country ’s creditors a blunt question : “ must we starve our children to pay our debts ? ” that was the case in 1986 , before public campaigns and initiatives that removed much of africa ’s crushing and unpayable debt burden . but nyerere ’s question still hangs like a dark cloud over somalia . over the past year , an unprecedented humanitarian effort has pulled somalia back from the brink of famine . as the worst drought in living memory destroyed harvests and decimated livestock , nearly $ 1 billion was mobilized in emergency nutrition aid , health , and clean water provision .
brazil and other countries that complained about “ hot money ” inflows and “ currency wars , ” have now suddenly gotten what they wished for : a likely premature end to the fed ’s qe . the consequences – sharp capital-flow reversals that are now hitting all risky emerging-market assets – have not been pretty . whether a correction in risky assets is temporary or the start of a bear market will depend on several factors . one is whether the fed will truly exit from qe as quickly as it signaled . there is a strong likelihood that weaker american growth and lower inflation will force it to slow the pace of its withdrawal of liquidity support .
berkeley – since late 2014 , the us has been advocating a model of american governance , based on the tenth amendment of the american constitution , which states that , “ powers not delegated to the united states by the constitution , nor prohibited by states , are reserved to states that are , respectively , or people . ” increasingly , california has been exercising these constitutional rights . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
europe slipping back into recession just when recovery in the united states finally gets some traction . that undermined the case for fiscal consolidation , which is so heavily favored in europe . yet i took away a different conclusion from davos . i moderated a session on the “ new context in east asia , ” addressed by a panel of senior representatives from thailand , south korea , malaysia , singapore , and japan . with the exception of the japanese participant , all had firsthand experience with the devastating asian financial crisis of the late 1990 ’s . i could not resist the temptation to draw asia into the debate between europe and the us .
great scientific minds have learned over many decades to “ read ” the history of earth to understand how the climate system works . they have deployed brilliant physics , biology , and the instrumentation ( such as satellites reading detailed features of earth ’s systems ) to advance our understanding . and the message is clear : large-scale use of oil , coal , and gas threatens the planet ’s biology and chemistry . we are fueling dangerous changes in earth ’s climate and ocean chemistry , giving rise to extreme storms , droughts , and other hazards that damage the food supply and quality of life in the planet . the ipcc and climate scientists tell us a crucial message .
some integration advocates see a united europe as a strong partner . others are motivated by a desire to establish a rival center of power , however unrealistic this seems . some commentators have begun to point to the different views of the us and europe on the role of international law , as opposed to the use of force , in resolving disputes . because europe is militarily insignificant , they argue , it is not surprising that europeans emphasize diplomacy rather than military might to resolve disputes . on the other hand , no one should be surprised that americans chafe at constraints on their ability to take advantage of american military hegemony .
moscow – the georgia crisis last august tested europe ’s security system , and the system failed to fulfill its core task of ensuring common security for the continent as a whole . as a result , europe must revisit its current security arrangements , analyze what happened , and take this analysis into account in reforming those arrangements . even before the georgian crisis , russia has already seen the need to revisit european security mechanisms , including its international and regional institutions and their functions . the us has suggested a new , legally binding treaty system of mutual security guarantees to ensure equal security across europe . the european union believes that the russian initiative is well grounded , and has shown interest in launching such a project .
princeton – should rallies by neo-nazis and white supremacists be met with violence ? that question has been raised by the tragic events in charlottesville , virginia , on august 12 . white supremacists held a rally to protest the planned removal from the public park of robert e. lee , the leader of the confederate army during the civil war . counter-protest was organized , and street fighting broke out . a woman , heather heyer , was killed and 19 people injured when james fields , white nationalist , drove his car at high speed into a crowd of counter-protesters .
and wen has indicated that village elections could be extended to the next highest level of government – township administrations – over the next few years . china ’s modest experiments with local elections have been supplemented by exercises in “ deliberative democracy . ” these take the form of high-tech city hall meetings . chinese officials hired stanford university professor james fishkin to draft a representative sample of citizens from zeguo for an assembly using keypad polling devices and handheld computers to decide how the city should spend a $ 6 million public-works budget . the zeguo exercise was considered immensely successful , and has been replicated elsewhere in china .
european regulators have already introduced sophisticated monitoring and surveillance programs , blocked market access to countries with record illegal fishing , penalized european rogue operators , and helped support “ yellow or red carded ” countries reform their fisheries laws . the eu , japan , and the us would be even more effective if they aligned their policies to prevent criminals from accessing their markets and allow legitimate actors to benefit from a “ supercharged ” level of access . working together could enable the use of affordable , sophisticated seafood technology – data and intelligence gathering that helps pinpoint exactly where seafood comes from , and when and when . such efforts – for example , the atlantic bluefin tuna catch – represent one of the most effective tools for eliminating illicit fishing . eliminating rogue fishing will help replenish marine life and secure livelihoods for billions of people .
but the urban poor , faced with poor housing , limited infrastructure , and meager services , are vulnerable to epidemics , malnutrition-based childhood diseases , hiv/aids , malaria , tuberculosis , and mental disorders . they are also likely to hit hardest by natural disasters , such as floods and mudslides that devastated parts of rio de janeiro in january . a second generic feature of emerging-market cities is that dense concentrations of poverty help to create fragile environments that spawn civil disorder , resulting in death and injuries . but a recent symposium at oxford university concluded that emerging-market cities could improve and maintain urban health by capturing the inherent advantages of concentration , coordinating health policies , and programs , adopting successful innovations , reforming health education and training , and developing improved planning processes . indeed , many potential solutions stem from the opportunities for innovation created by people ’s physical concentration and economic activity .
this followed the june 2001 court decision to set a date for trial , making it possible at last to present evidence against these individuals . the courts ’ actions represent guatemala ’s first effort to bring high military officials to trial . regrettably , the trial has been delayed indefinitely , because the defendants ’ lawyers appealed the case . our successes on the matter of myrna mack are notable , but achieving them has proved difficult : police investigator was assassinated ; judges have been threatened ; and witnesses have fled into exile . i have been harassed and campaigns to discredit me organized .
geoengineering proponents are right about one thing : we are facing a climate emergency that demands radical and urgent action . the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) made this starkly apparent in october 2018 , reinforcing the point last month with its report on climate change and land . some major economies – including canada , ireland , the united kingdom – as well as regions and cities , now officially recognized the scale of the crisis . the question is whether this will translate into a commitment to take the necessary action . that certainly did not happen at last year ’s united nations climate change conference in katowice , poland .
meanwhile , germany , europe with its closest historical and cultural relationship with russia , is at the end of the political cycle . it is both dangerous and unfair to underestimate german chancellor angela merkel , but she no longer has the clout or energy to lead europe in its dealings with the outside world , or to rally europeans themselves . with the uk and germany currently incapable of playing a major diplomatic role , and italy , spain , and poland in no position to be principal actors , the conclusion is quite simple : partly by default , and partly because of the sheer power and imagination of its young president , this is france ’s moment . finally , macron ’s attempt to reset relations with russia is perfectly in tune with france ’s gaullist tradition . mediating between different systems and looking beyond the current incarnation of other countries has been charles de gaulle ’s natural instinct .
they understood that democratic countries would need the space to conduct independent monetary and fiscal policies . so they contemplated only a “ thin ” globalization , with capital flows confined largely to long-term lending and borrowing . john maynard keynes , writing the rules along harry dexter white , viewed capital controls not as temporary expedient , but as a permanent feature of the global economy . the bretton woods regime collapsed in the 1970 ’s as a result of the inability or unwillingness – it is not entirely clear which – of leading governments to manage the rising tide of capital flows . the third path identified by the trilemma is to do away with national sovereignty altogether .
but if that makes traditional arms-control treaties impossible to verify , it may still be possible to set limits on certain types of civilian targets ( rather than weapons ) and negotiate rough rules of the road that limit conflict . in any case , strategic stability in cyberspace will be difficult to maintain . because technological innovation has been faster than in the nuclear realm , cyberwarfare is characterized by heightened reciprocal fear of surprise . over time , however , better attribution may enhance the role of punishment ; and better defenses through encryption or machine learning can enhance the role of prevention and denial . moreover , as states and organizations come to understand better the limitations and uncertainties of cyberattacks and the growing importance of internet entanglement to their economic wellbeing , cost-benefit calculations of cyberwarfare utility may change .
likewise , the decision to recognize kosovo ’s independence came only after russia made clear that it would veto a deal proposed by un secretary general antónio guterres . even then , the us agreed to another four months of eu-russia negotiations to ensure that no stone was left unturned in the search for a mutually acceptable compromise . in georgia , by contrast , russia moved from supporting territorial integrity to breaking up the country in three weeks , relying entirely on military force to do so . russia must now ask itself about the relationship between short term military victories and long-term economic prosperity . the georgia conflict was followed by a sharp decline in investor confidence .
more broadly , such a strategy could also start to close the deepening transatlantic divide that trump ’s presidency has opened up . fracturing the west is a welcome development in the eyes of russian president vladimir putin and illiberal regimes around the world . authoritarians and populists would like nothing more than to sow chaos and loss of trust in the postwar rules-based international order . the democracies that have built up that order embody values that are antithetical to authoritarians ’ interests . finally , trump ’s jcpoa decision demonstrates , once again , that europe relies far too much on the us for its security and prosperity .
knowledge-based organizations are forming a wide array of alliances with the media , and they play an important role in influencing public opinion , as well as in diplomacy . a number of international negotiations on issues such as bio-safety and organic pollutants benefit from such alliances . knowledge-based institutions are also better equipped to harness the expanding global information infrastructure to influence diplomacy . modern international diplomacy is more and more dependent on groups that make rules , set standards , and collect technical data . in the environmental field , new institutions are emerging that focus their work on harmonizing criteria and indicators , especially for use in programs that certify sustainable resource use as they do about forests and fisheries .
nor was the strong showing by populist parties in italy ’s election this month , where the anti-immigration league party and the anti-establishment five star movement together secured some 50 % of the vote . even germany has , to some extent , fallen victim to populist forces . to be sure , a new grand coalition government – comprising chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union , and the social democratic party ( spd ) – has emerged . but it took more than five months for the parties to agree , and the largest opposition party is now the far-right alternative for germany . in a country that seemed to have inoculated against populism by its nazi history , this is a particularly distressing development .
likewise , restrictions and ambiguities continue to plague the institutional arrangements sought by the framers of the country ’s political and electoral reforms . reelection is permitted only for candidates nominated by the same party for which they originally ran , and the enabling legislation for independent candidates , ballot initiatives , and referenda remains unclear . most important , the government appears to be backtracking on a commitment to allow a binding referendum on opening up the oil sector and other “ transcendent ” issues . its reluctance is understandable , because voters are evenly divided on the issue , and none will invest a cent in mexican oil or gas if the recently approved constitutional amendment on pemex can be overturned in 2015 , as opposition claims will happen . but curtailing democracy to modernize the energy sector is not a good idea .
regardless of the form it took , it began to receive some heavy blows a few years ago ( analogous to the crises that hit exchange-rate targets in the 1990 ’s ) . perhaps the biggest setback hit in september 2008 , when it became clear that central banks that relied on it had not paid enough attention to asset-price bubbles . central bankers were told that they were giving asset markets all the attention they deserved , by specifying that housing prices and equity prices could account for the extent that they implied information about goods inflation . but this escape clause proved insufficient : when the global financial crisis hit ( suggesting , at least in retrospect , that monetary policy had been too loose from 2003 to 2006 ) , it was neither preceded nor followed by an upsurge in inflation . that the boom-bust cycle could occur without inflation should have come as a surprise .
employers can avoid the mandate by reducing employee workweek to less than 30 hours ( which the law defines as full-time employment ) . but even for full-time employees , firms can opt for relatively small fines rather than provide insurance . that fine is $ 2,000 per employee , far less than the current average employer-provided premium . not providing insurance and paying the fine is a particularly attractive option for a firm if its employees have incomes that entitle them to government subsidies ( which are now available to anyone whose income is below four times the poverty level ) . rather than incur the cost of the premium on an approved policy , a smart employer can pay the fine for not providing insurance and increasing employees ’ pay by enough to spendable cash after purchasing subsidized insurance policies .
the two cabinet ministers who resigned over the affair , robin cook and clare short , want their own revenge , and thus continue to attack blair for his “ lies . ” so far , blair has proven his resilience to such charges . indeed , he has gone on the counter-attack , particularly against the bbc , which has not exactly supported a war of enthusiasm . but does the uncertainty now circling blair like a vulture now smell appetizingly foul of the lie ? or is it more a question of prime minister losing the trust of his people , including some of his erstwhile friends and allies ?
increasingly obsessed with the prospect of its own citizens and practices coming under international scrutiny , america has contributed to the general erosion of the un human rights monitoring system over the last few years . it adamantly opposed several important and promising new human-rights initiatives , notably the international criminal court ( icc ) and the new anti-torture mechanism . on the anti-torture protocol , the us sought to derail the creation of a universal system of visits to places of detention , under an optional protocol to the convention against torture . here america found itself allied with some odd bedfellows that it routinely rebukes as chronic human-rights violators – cuba , china , iran , libya , sudan , or zimbabwe . yet , without us support , the initiative was overwhelmingly endorsed at the end of july by the un economic and social council .
nor will it be enough to recall the historic benefits of engagement , and britain ’s distinguished centuries-old role in ensuring that no country has ever gained sole mastery of europe . what is needed is this : britain is at its best when it sees itself as a leader in europe . just as britain once led europe in fighting fascism , supporting democratic aspirations , and charting the continent ’s response to the 2008 global recession , it should be within europe leading from front ranks . britain , which has always championed liberty , tolerance , and social responsibility , should be ready once again to lead a progressive movement , which spearheading action to fight climate change , resist protectionism , and encourage sustainable growth . it must lead in mobilizing europe to make the global economy work for people , protect them from injustice and inequity .
yet the expectation of reasonable consumer protection is built into our economies . if a company sells you a car that , say , is not being adequately tested , the resulting in injury , the company pays a price . the same goes for virtually any other consumer-facing business , from airlines to foods suppliers . a restaurant can not evade responsibility for serving expired food simply by posting a sign saying , “ customers beware . ” when it comes to facebook , moreover , users are not just passive consumers , given that the company traffics in their data .
the implicit model is that of the “ guest worker ” who comes and goes ; in practice , a sizeable share of economic migrants from poorer parts of europe remain in their destination countries , fueling increased support for anti-immigrant parties . the asylum system is totally unprepared to deal with the new generation of refugees , who are ineligible under the existing framework , because they are fleeing not from specific acts of persecution , but from the disintegration of their states . they can be provided “ humanitarian protection ” or granted “ discretionary leave ” to remain “ for a short period ; but then they can be deported as illegal migrants . so what is to be done ? temporary residence status in europe or outside the eu would be reasonable if a rapid return to normalcy in the countries of refugees of origin were a realistic prospect .
in other words , mrs. obama manages to set himself up unprecedentedly , as the “ people ’s first lady . ” she has studied carefully not only jackie kennedy – a comparison apparent from her sheath dresses , boat collars , and page-boy haircut – but also the triumphs and failures of that other glamorous but underestimated stealth radical , princess diana . princess di ’s legacy in generating iconography that opened the way to tremendous social change is grossly underappreciated . in her brief lifetime , she was often lauded for qualities ( her beauty and style ) that were secondary to her work , derided for other aspects of her character ( her emotionality and chaotic personal life ) that were just as beside the point . as a result , few people noticed how genuinely , powerfully transformative her agenda was , how well she thought it out , and how audaciously she sought to manage it .
instead , both are busy designing another round of stimulus that will involve even more political and policy risks . other risks are already giving central bankers headaches . the protracted brexit process is hampering the bank of england ’s longer-term policy strategy , while the short-term impact on governments ’ global growth on weaponization of trade tariffs complicates the task for both the fed and the ecb . meanwhile , some pro-growth policies currently mooted could increase the risk of disruptive financial instability , and thus further complicate central bankers ’ task . the notion of “ people ’s qe ” – that is , a more direct channeling of central-bank funding toward the population – receives more attention from both sides of the political spectrum .
he himself presided over many violations , a fact that the osce back in 1999 . he resigned only after winning elections to parliament . clearly , ak zhol used accusations of impropriety as a weapon against government parties . indeed , many opposition groups engaged in dirty tricks . nevertheless , the elections represented significant progress .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . china ’s economic performance over the last four decades has been truly impressive .
over the short term , it seems to be moving like a crab – two steps forward , one step back , and one step sideways . yet asean ’s long-term progress is undeniable . its combined gdp has grown from $ 95 billion in 1970 to $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 . and it is the only reliable platform for geopolitical engagement in the asia-pacific region , unique in its ability to convene meetings attended by all the world ’s great powers , the united states and the european union to china and russia . asean continues to confront serious challenges .
much of modern economic and financial theory is based on the assumption that people are rational , and thus systematically maximize their own happiness , or as economists call it , their “ utility . ” when samuelson took on the subject in his 1947 book the subject , he did not look to the brain , but instead relied on “ revealed preference . ” humans ’ goals are revealed only by observing their economic activities . under samuelson ’s guidance , generations of economists have based their research not on any physical structure underlying thought and behavior , but only on the assumption of rationality . as a result , glimcher is skeptical of prevailing economic theory , and he is seeking a physical basis for it in the brain .
central-bank balance sheets have swelled , with policy rates reaching their “ near zero ” lower bounds . there is plenty of cheap water , but the horse refuses to drink . with no signs of inflation , and growth still tepid and fragile , many anticipate chronic sluggish growth , with some even fearing another global recession . but policymakers have one more option : a shift toward “ purer ” fiscal policy , in which they directly finance government spending by printing money – a so-called helicopter drop . “ the new money would bypass the financial and corporate sectors , and go straight to the thirstiest horses : the middle – and lower-income consumers .
the case went to the local court , where the judge ruled it an “ accidental traffic disturbance ” and gave the driver a two-year suspended sentence . the judge ’s ruling spurred rumors that he went easy on her because her husband was related to senior provincial officials . it quickly became a “ rich versus poor ” story , widely cited as an example of high-level corruption . over the next few months , newspapers and television stations ran with the story as snowballed into a national obsession . alarmed by the public reaction , harbin laden ordered the case reopened , only to have the suspended sentence confirmed when the case was concluded this march .
repeated military interventions in large muslim nations – egypt , indonesia , pakistan , and turkey – have impeded orderly political development . but these countries ’ rising middle classes have begun to shift their political systems in another direction – a testament to the power they now wield . that power has increased for several reasons . most large muslim countries have very young populations , with the median age in the mid – to the upper twenties . with more than half of these countries ’ populations below the age of 30 , political development has been able to move forward , despite the own own own own own own own own own own entrenched elites ’ own own own own collective collective collective collective collective collective collective collective collective collective collective collective collective support , despite the own own own own own collective collective collective collective collective collective collective collective collective collective collective support , despite the recalcitrance of entrenched elites .
although latin america ’s economies are doing well now thanks to reform and high commodity prices , there are underlying problems . the goal is to implement a comprehensive set of fiscal responsibility laws that curb legislatures ’ ability and ministers ’ ability to increase spending relentlessly . the rules need to impose limits on deficits , spending , and debt , and require transparency to make the public know what is going on . if matched by a genuine commitment to develop fiscal credibility , countries could boost their economic growth substantially . third on the panel ’s list is increased investment in infrastructure construction and maintenance .
second , countries must focus on building the underlying digital infrastructure needed for sustained success , and avoid the allure of the latest shiny innovations . too often , developing countries have seized on new technologies – “ distribute tablets to schoolchildren ! ” – without giving enough thought to the extent to which they will be used in specific national contexts . this has resulted in many disappointing pilot projects that have failed to deliver sustainable impact on scale . a new report from the pathways for prosperity commission on technology and inclusive development , based at oxford university ’s blavatnik school of government , suggests how countries can address this problem . the report urges them to establish a “ digital building blocks ” foundation – including basic infrastructure and skills – to harness positive disruptions to education and health services .
but , overall , it is hard to deny that the global economy lacks momentum . this is partly because trees can not grow forever : china ’s economy could not continue to get 10 % bigger every year . and , in part , it is because growth is not unconditionally desirable : citizens may be better off with a little less of it , and more clean air . but many countries remain poor enough to be endowed with strong growth potential , and many others , though the rich , have yet to recover from the global financial crisis . so something else must be held back by growth .
in april 2009 and again in april-may 2010 , disenfranchised red shirts camped in bangkok ’s streets to demand new elections , but were dispersed by the army , with 91 fatalities . despite their setbacks and lost credibility following torching bangkok ’s central business district , the red shirts have grown in number and demonstrate monthly against abhisit ’s government . and , after two years , pad yellow shirts have also returned to the streets to show their disillusion with abhisit . now ringleaders denounce all politicians as corrupt and extol the monarchy ’s virtue . using the arms of an anti-corruption drive and rising nationalism ( the result of a periodically violent border dispute with cambodia ) , royalist-conservative movement implicitly points to extra-constitutional solutions to thailand ’s political standoff .
industry analysts predict that ai will drive growth in the coming years and decades . gartner , the mckinsey research and advisory firm , estimates that ai-enabled tools will generate $ 2.9 trillion in business value by 2021 , while pwc forecasts that ai could contribute as much as $ 15.7 trillion by 2030 to the global economy . some estimates show that companies could save as much as $ 4 trillion annually with ai automation . and the benefits for businesses will go far beyond savings , as automation spur innovation , improves forecasting , optimize operations , and leads to better customer service . in any technological transition , those leading the change can not lose sight of the human element ; there are some things that even the smartest machines will never do .
because they can not be good at everything , they must concentrate on what they are best at all – that is , their comparative advantage . they should make a few things very well , and exchange them for other goods that are made better elsewhere , thereby exploiting gains from trade . but , while some ideas are intuitive or obvious , they can also be wrong and dangerous . as is often the case , it is not what you do not know , but what you mistakenly think you know , that hurts you . and the idea that cities and countries actually specialize , and that they should specialize , is one of those very wrong and dangerous ideas .
the trouble is that germany has not been forced to choose . it can continue to do no more than the minimum to preserve the euro . this is clearly merkel ’s preferred choice , at least until the next election . europe would be infinitely better off if germany made the definitive choice between eurobonds and a eurozone exit , regardless of the outcome ; indeed , germany would be better off as well . the situation is deteriorating , and , in the longer term , it is bound to become unsustainable .
but the bilateral relationship has deepened significantly lately , exemplified in last week ’s forum , which resulted in more than 25 trade and other agreements covering areas ranging from agriculture to technology . both leaders gush that their two countries are now on a better footing than ever . for russia , closer ties with china are undoubtedly tempting . after five years of international sanctions imposed on russia after its annexation of crimea , xi ’s overtures provide a seemingly welcome reprieve . but , before putin places too much faith in xi , he would do well to recall the 1960s soviet dissident song , “ people are brothers ; i will hug the chinese , ” which mocked ill-fated early attempts at the russo-chinese union .
warsaw – donald tusk ’s term as president of the european council will end on may 30 , which is perfect timing for the polish opposition . after the parliamentary election in late october , poland will hold its presidential election in april 2020 , and opposition voters already see tusk as the only viable candidate . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
and if you want him to pay , rezz.it will help you to assemble without feeling like a cheapskate . or you may have a set of under-used dining chairs . you do n’t particularly want to lend each day ; but if someone is willing to pay , say , $ 200 to rent them for a dinner party , the trouble might be worth it . so you can set a high price to compensate for inconvenience and force money on the side . and you can post different prices for different times : $ 20,000 to rent my home in london during the olympics , $ 10,000 over christmas , or $ 1,000 any other time .
fifth , both sides should regard the november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation summit in santiago as the final chance to sign an agreement . following high-level negotiations between chinese vice premier liu he and us trade representative robert lighthizer this month , outstanding issues should be agreed in beijing in early november . getting the deal done before thanksgiving will be critical of undergird american business and consumer confidence for christmas season . i am one of the few commentators who have argued for all year that , despite the political fireworks , trump and xi ’s underlying interests make a deal more likely than not . but the recently announced impeachment proceedings against trump could throw the wrench into this process .
european institutions , like germany , tend to prefer “ strategic autonomy , ” while france favors the concept of “ european sovereignty . ” but the two concepts are often used interchangeably , and rarely are defined precisely . in an effort to clarify matters , my colleagues and i recently proposed an operationalized definition of “ european strategic autonomy . ” we also analyzed likely obstacles , difficulties , and conflicts should german and european policymakers decide to pursue this goal . we understand strategic autonomy as the ability to set one ’s own priorities , and make one ’s own decisions on foreign policy and security issues , together with institutional , political , and material means to realize these choices , either in cooperation with third parties or on their own , if need be .
in fact , eradication of poppy crops not only harm local communities and undermines the international community ’s goals , but also fails : opium production last year was at an all-time high . in september , the united nations office on drugs crime announced that poppy cultivation soared by a record-high 60 % . eradication will never succeed in afghanistan , because it destroys the single crop that grows in the south ’s harsh climate – and thus serves as the main source of income to millions of people . so a new , long-term , economically sustainable solution is urgently needed – one that engages directly with communities suffering the most – to achieve the support of the deeply impoverished rural population . as a way to address this dilemma , the senlis council is proposing to run scientific pilot projects to research the opium licensing system for afghanistan , which would be a core component of the economic reconstruction process .
but the bush administration scares us . the concept of preventive war is poised to incite precisely that clash of civilizations predicted a decade ago , and which must be avoided . muslim faith counts a billion men and women worldwide among its followers . five percent declared war on our civilization , and are ready to engage in murder to put an end to western domination . ninety-five percent of muslims , including most of their religious leaders , want only to live in peace and put an end to islam ’s long humiliation that only the advent of democracy and development in the muslim world can make possible .
but blindly sticking to principle would have been a high-risk option for the ecb . it would have meant accepting in 2012 what has been called “ redenomination risk ” – economic newspeak for a eurozone breakup . nonetheless , by launching its omt scheme , the ecb has committed german ( and other northern european ) taxpayers without their parliaments ’ approval , to a potential bail out – well whom , exactly , ? indeed , it seems that the typical northern european taxpayer supports the typical stakeholder in northern european banks that are over-exposed to southern european debtors . likewise , german legal scholars interpret the ecb ’s activities as incompatible with european treaty provisions that prohibit bailouts and monetary financing of eurozone members ’ debt .
by comparing the fight against isis to the soviet union ’s struggle against isis , trump elevates the terrorist organization to great-power status . this contributes to perceptions that isis is far more potent than it actually is , once again playing into isis recruiters ’ hands . trump has also expressed interest in cooperating with russia to take down isis , seemingly oblivious to the focus of russia ’s involvement in syria on propping up assad ’s regime . such a partnership could lead trump to strike a deal with iran , which is more than willing to fight sunni radicals in iraq and syria . iran is now permitting russian long-range bombers to use one of its air bases to strike syria , complicating obama ’s already-strenuous effort to reach an understanding with russian president vladimir putin on ending the civil war .
indeed , a recent mckinsey survey revealed not only that europeans aspire to a more vibrant economy , higher incomes , and better public services ( especially health care and education ) , but also that they are prepared to accept tradeoffs , including longer hours and reduced social protection , to achieve them . a whopping 91 % of 16,000 respondents said that they favor changes to the status quo , even if it required some sacrifice . and the status quo is in urgent need of change . as it stands , european economic output per capita remains well below 2008 levels . in most european countries , gross sovereign debt exceeds the threshold ( 60 % of gdp ) established by the stability and growth pact .
colombo – sri lanka has been deservedly praised for progress since the end of the war against the separatist tamil tigers in 2009 . the economy has grown at an average annual rate of 6.7 % , and education and health statistics are impressive . all developing countries face myriad challenges , but this is especially the case for a country that has suffered an intense 30-year civil war . the government will need to set priorities ; but success will require a comprehensive approach . underlying wars like the tamil tigers are typically , social and economic grievances , such as real or perceived discrimination , and the government ’s failure to address wealth and income disparities adequately .
western democracies , as most historians now acknowledge , played a comparatively minor role in the great military struggle . the pope believed that he could either condemn both totalitarian powers or condemn neither . but any condemnation by pius of communism would have been exploited by nazi propaganda as a support for hitler ’s war effort . and condemnation of nazism could have been misinterpreted as an attack not against nazism , but against germany in its life-and-death struggle with stalin ’s communist regime . very few people in the vatican – indeed , in europe at large – had any real knowledge in those days of the vast industrial might of the united states .
data traveling instantaneously around the world are indifferent to national boundaries . i believe that the economic and social impact of such data will rival , even surpass , roles that petroleum and internal combustion engines played in the twentieth century . by its nature , data easily overcomes physical obstacles . networked , its effects , and its advantages multiply , and then multiply further . conversely , should the equivalent of even a single closed-room appear anywhere , the resulting losses extend to the entire network .
meanwhile , serious trade reform did not start until 1991-93 . governments in both countries focused their scarce political capital and administrative resources on areas other than trade liberalization . because both india and china did increase trade substantially , both are regarded as globalizers by the world bank ’s criterion . but , as their experience reveals – along with the experiences of many others , such as south korea , taiwan , and vietnam – deep trade liberalization hardly makes it a factor in fostering higher growth and expanded trade early on . it is good to see the world bank catching on to this simple reality .
i felt prodigious , restless energy that i suspected that he could not turn off if he wanted to do so . soon after i began recount my observations , he took me to a map of vietnam , asking me to locate areas of destruction . i felt that the request was a test – one that i was prepared to take , because i carried maps with me in forward air-control planes . he seemed deeply engaged , but made no comment , asking me only if i had anything in writing . i said that i did , but that it was in longhand . he suggested that i produce typed copy , and provided me with the office of a general who was away .
at present , these kinds of innovations are not prominently featured in most hunger-alleviation strategies . but that is changing slowly , especially as more people in emerging economies connect to mobile networks , and apps designed to collect and share agricultural information become increasingly accessible . in egypt , for example , sudan , and ethiopia , local extension services are delivering real-time weather data to vegetable farmers through sms . in west africa , private companies like siemens are expanding the accuracy and accuracy of sms weather alerts to remote farmers . in mongolia , rural herders receive information about disease outbreaks to help them maintain their livestock ’ health .
brussels – as the world ’s financial elite converges on washington , dc , for the annual meetings of the international monetary fund and the world bank , they can not escape yet another clarion call to reverse the retreat of globalization . faltering trade , it is assumed , must be an adverse trend that needs to be addressed . but the assumption is simplistic , at best . the problem lies in a lack of understanding of what drove trade growth over the last few decades . to be sure , efforts to grasp the current slowdown have been underway .
finally , a renminbi-depreciation policy would lead to a sharp escalation of the global currency war . in an era of unprecedented quantitative easing , competitive currency devaluation became the norm for the world ’s major exporters – first the us , japan , and now europe . if china joined this race to the bottom , others would be tempted to escalate their actions , and world financial markets would be subject to yet another source of severe instability . just as china resisted the temptation of renminbi depreciation during the 1997-98 asian financial crisis – a decision that may have played a pivotal role in arresting regional contagion – it must stay the course today . that is all the more important in a disorderly climate of qe , where china ’s role as the anchor of the currency may take on even greater significance than it did in the late 1990s .
and even if fiscal policymakers were to become more responsive , they would start from the standpoint of relatively high deficits and debt . prolonging the current expansion will require great care . policymakers , particularly congress , need to avoid big mistakes and minimize the risk of market crashes while doing more to promote growth . the us needs a well-targeted approach to modernizing and upgrading its infrastructure . policymakers and leading economists also need to be more sensitive to how the fruits of economic growth are shared ; among other things , there should be better protections for the most vulnerable segments of society and stronger automatic stabilizers .
for many years , the imf has engaged its member countries in a process known as “ surveillance , ” in which it monitors , analyzes , and consults on each country ’s economic policies – both exchange-rate policies and appropriate domestic policies . these regular checkups help to identify potential vulnerabilities and maintain economic stability . nonetheless , the increasingly complex policy challenges of a globalized economy are calling for fresh insight into this process . this june , the imf ’s executive board did just that , reaching a broad consensus on updating surveillance to make it more focused and effective . this is one of the most important reforms to the fund ’s work in the 30 years since the surveillance process was designed .
four measures are needed to achieve this . first , a debt conference is needed , with southern european governments and banks forging part of the debt . creditors relinquishing part of their claims must include public entities , first and foremost the ecb , which have now largely replaced private lenders . second , eurozone members whose path to regaining competitiveness through price and wage reductions is too long and grueling , and whose societies risk being rent asunder by the necessary imposition of austerity must temporarily exit the monetary union . the pain of exiting should be cushioned with communal financial assistance , which would not be necessary for long , because a devaluation of the new currency quickly restored competitiveness .
this is important because ukraine has only partly fulfilled imf agreements that it signed in 1994 , 2008 , and 2010 . finally , the eu should insist that ukraine halt all politically motivated criminal cases and release those incarcerated for political crimes . selective use of justice has badly damaged yanukovych ’s administration ’s reputation . steps in this direction would greatly improve ukrainian relations with the eu and the us . these three steps would not resolve all of ukraine ’s difficulties in ukraine ’s relations with the eu .
arguing that his efforts to improve relations with russia are in america ’s national interest , trump , shortly after the summit , invited putin to visit the white house in the near future . putin has just reciprocated with an invitation for trump to come to the kremlin . but trump ’s enthusiasm ( and his desire to defy his critics ) is no substitute for genuine openness to mutually beneficial cooperation , like that seen in 1959 , when dwight eisenhower invited nikita khrushchev to visit the us , and in 1986 , when mikhail gorbachev and ronald reagan met in reykjavík . instead , trump ’s actions just look like more kowtowing , raising other us leaders ’ hackles . for many members of the american security establishment , putin ’s apparent influence over trump poses an existential threat to american democracy , much as the soviet union did at the height of the cold war .
washington , dc – this month , european citizens will head to the polls to elect the european parliament ’s 751 members to represent 507 million people . the way the election campaign unfolded marks a small but significant step in the emergence of the first transnational political space in europe – indeed , the world – of history . to be sure , the european parliament elections have brought smaller shares of voters to the polls : 43 % in 2009 , compared to almost 60 % in 1978-1994 . nonetheless , the participation rate over the past decade is comparable to the average turnout in american congressional elections . given the perceived remoteness of the european parliament and widespread frustration with the european bureaucracy , the level of participation , and movement toward supranational politics , is remarkable .
the bomb , however , was not encased in metal , and the terrorist was the only person killed . to an outsider , the episode looks like a colossal security failure , as if the fbi ’s head personally greeted one of bin laden ’s lieutenants at a garden party . but it is just this highly personalized form of politics that the saudi royals have adopted with defecting al-qaeda members . indeed , this policy , even with its risks , partly explains al-qaeda ’s defeat in saudi arabia . highly personalized politics form part of what might be called saudi arabia ’s theater of state , which keeps the royals firmly in power .
prime minister levi eshkol said that he spoke with seven languages , all in yiddish . of eban , it could be said , spoke ten languages , all with oxford/cambridge accent . yet what appealed to the outside world was not always an asset in the rough and tumble of israeli politics . perhaps eban was too urbane , too much scholar and gentleman to make it – in disraeli ’s phrase – to the top of greasy pole . together with golda meir and moshe dayan , he had to leave government in 1974 in the yom kippur war .
but whether europe as a whole avoids losing decades of economic growth remains hangs in the balance , and depends on whether southern european governments can quickly restore competitiveness . the process by which southern europe became uncompetitive in the former was driven by market price signals – by the incentives that those signals were created for entrepreneurs , and by how entrepreneurs ’ individually rational responses played out in macroeconomic terms . northern europeans with money to invest were willing to lend on extraordinarily easy terms to those in the south who wanted to spend , and ample pre-2007 spending made employers there willing to raise wages rapidly . as a result , southern europe adopted an economic configuration in which its wage , price , and productivity levels made sense only so long as it spent € 13 for every € 12 that it earned , with northern europe financing the missing euro . northern europe , meanwhile , adopted wage and productivity levels that made sense only as long as it spent less than one euro for every euro it earned .
a global economic downturn is the last thing the world needs at a time when it is already beset by risks , including a possible no-deal brexit and populist gains in the european parliament election in may . of course , while trump does not spare his allies , his primary target remains china . after all , the contest between the us and china extends far beyond trade . although the us maintains military , technological , financial , and soft-power supremacy , china has been steadily catching up , leading to bipartisan support in the us for a more confrontational approach . last october , us vice president mike pence bluntly accused china of theft of technology , predatory economic expansion , and military aggression .
they can be answered , and regularly revised , only through an iterative process of strategic interaction between public agencies and private firms . a common theme that emerges from studies of so-called place-based policies , such as regionally targeted employment subsidies and infrastructure investment , is the heavily contingent nature of success . few policies work off the shelf and reliably across diverse settings . competitions among states and localities to attract large employers with tax and other subsidies work particularly badly . recent high-profile deals for foxconn and amazon , wisconsin , and new york , respectively , have blown up .
shanghai – after decades of spectacular expansion , china faces the difficult task of managing a soft economic landing . naysayers abound , but never mind them . china has the advantage that other countries in today ’s troubled global economy lack : a clear path forward . if china carries out a sustained , comprehensive effort to raise productivity , it can address its growth challenges , reduce the risks of financial crisis , and complete its shift to a consumption-driven , high-income economy with a large and affluent middle class . if it does , its annual gdp could be an estimated $ 5 trillion larger by 2030 than it is likely to be if policymakers continue to pursue investment-led growth .
london – as governments across western europe have begun bailing out banks and their depositors , eastern europeans have watched nervously , unsure of what the global financial storm would mean for them . now that the storm has hit , the fragile bonds of european solidarity are being tested . two countries – hungary and ukraine – have already been asked for large support packages . several more could do so over the next month if frozen credit markets do not thaw . if the situation continues until the end of the year , which can not be ruled out , many more countries could experience severe banking crises .
but the big question for health professionals is whether the quantity or quality of foods is to blame . this is an important distinction , because quantity is determined by the user , while quality is determined by the industry . some health experts argue that specific components of processed foods – especially sugar – are as addictive as cocaine and heroin . sugar , for example , is consistently the ingredient with the highest score on the yale food addiction scale , which measures people ’s food cravings . the processed food industry says that “ you need sugar to live . ”
a closely coordinated effort by amongst private and public-sector partners to deliver oral polio vaccines to every child under the age of five was the key to success . globally , international donors and un agencies have worked closely with national governments , tallying the precise needs of massive polio immunization campaigns aimed at reaching hundreds of millions of children . last year alone , the global polio eradication initiative delivered nearly two billion doses of polio vaccine to 575 million children in 94 countries . in each country , partner institutions , including the world health organization ’s minister , unicef , other un agencies , service groups like rotary international , representatives from donor governments , the private sector , and non-governmental organizations , jointly and carefully planned each immunization campaign . every detail , from the number of bicycles and boats needed to deliver the vaccine to otherwise inaccessible areas , refrigerators , and cold boxes needed to keep the vaccine potent , even the batteries needed to power them , were counted and budgeted .
in an increasingly deal-based world , a new g6 might offer a rules-based system of defense . still , one wonders whether the eu is capable of putting the united front on a united front . with the bloc splintering into distinct political tribes , it is becoming easier for other powers to pursue divide-and-conquer strategies . this has long been russia ’s strategy . in 2016 , for example , the southern and eastern eu member states that rely on chinese investment managed to water down a joint eu statement on china ’s territorial encroachments in the south china sea .
corruption is one of africa ’s endemic problems , and it is the most important problem that it is facing . indeed , it is a key issue in nigeria ’s approaching presidential election , given president obasanjo ’s high-minded but unsuccessful struggle to curb it . but the winds of globalization have been to blow away the cobwebs of bribery and inefficiency . harvard political scientist devesh kapur suggests why this is not happening . evict has the state from direct economic activity , curb its discretionary powers , and both economic efficiency and governance will improve .
florence – europeans eager to revive the continent ’s unification process have lately turned their attention to the united states ’ founding . many , however , reject america ’s precedent on the grounds that today ’s problems are too dissimilar from those encountered then . others , who accept that federalist principles might well fit the problems of a european common market , despair that the “ european people ” who could bring about this new political structure are missing . but there are striking parallels between america ’s founding years and europe ’s ongoing political and economic crisis . in fact , the creation of the american constitution and the birth of the american people offer reasons to hope that some of the most difficult issues facing europe can one day be resolved .
moscow – the ongoing street protests in hong kong and moscow have no doubt spooked chinese president xi jinping ’s authoritarian duo and russian president vladimir putin . the moscow protests , the largest in many years , must be kept putin up at night or are not dispersed with such unabated brutality . yet , rather than hold a dialogue with the people , putin has been demonstrating that he is in control , even preening for photos in tight leather outfit with his favorite motorcycle gang . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
the following year , persian emperor yazdegerd iii fled to the border province of khorasan and the arabization of persia began , with persians taking arab names and converting to islam . by 651 , almost all of the major urban centers in persia were under arab control , adding momentum to the process . the mass conversion to islam among persians was the first step toward establishing the first caliphate , a political-religious state comprising all muslim lands . at various times in history , the “ “ caliphate ” has extended to asia , africa , and parts of europe . the effort by various forces seeking to control or restore the caliphate is a recurrent theme throughout islam ’s history .
the russian government ’s reluctance to fight corruption and strengthen the country ’s legal institutions reflects a perverse – yet stable – political equilibrium . in 2010 , tsyvinski and i predicted a “ 70-80 scenario ” in russia in the coming years : as oil prices , which plummeted to $ 40 a barrel , recovered and surpassed $ 70-80 / barrel , russia would return to the stagflation of the 1970s and 1980s . sure enough , gdp growth from 2010 to 2012 , though averaging respectable 4 % , turned out to have been driven by the post-crisis recovery and the further rise in oil prices to $ 100/barrel . now all of these short-term factors have been exhausted , with brepiñv-like periods of stagnation beginning . russia ’s political elite understands that the economy is capable of 5-6 % annual growth .
left-wing proponents of so-called modern monetary theory argue that larger permanent fiscal deficits are sustainable when monetized during periods of economic slack , because there is no risk of runaway inflation . following this logic , in the uk , the labour party has proposed “ people ’s qe , ” whereby the central bank would print money to finance direct fiscal transfers to households – rather than bankers and investors . others , including mainstream economists like adair turner , former chairman of the uk financial services authority , have called for “ helicopter drops ” : direct cash transfers to consumers through central-bank-financed fiscal deficits . still others , such as former fed vice chair stanley fischer and his blackrock colleagues , have proposed a “ standing emergency fiscal facility , ” which would allow the central bank to finance large fiscal deficits when a deep recession hits . despite differences in terminology , all of these proposals are variants of the same idea : large fiscal deficits monetized by central banks should be used to stimulate aggregate demand in the event of another slump .
most developing countries , i know , spend too little money devising good projects . when the private sector does , transforming ideas into bankable projects is often very difficult , because many of the “ difficult-to-coordinate ” public-sector decisions or actions are involved . so , let ’s assume that a toll road project is approved , a concession contract is prepared , and companies bid for it . bidders need to plan for two phases : engineering , procurement , and construction ( epc ) , and a longer phase of operation when toll revenues are gathered to recover the costs and expected returns . there are plenty of uncertainties in both phases , but especially during epc , which may last 3-7 years , depending on the project .
besides , there is a clear business rationale for prioritizing green finance.investors and rating agencies are increasingly scrutinizing investment portfolios for potential “ stranded assets , ” such as oil and gas projects , that will become obsolete as more renewable-energy technologies become commercially viable . many existing fossil-fuel projects already have shorter life spans than previously expected , and financial portfolios that rely heavily on such assets will increasingly risk devaluation . with some governments abandoning previous emissions-reduction commitments , one might think that the global effort to tackle climate change is losing steam . but we should not underestimate the power of financial pressure to effect change , nor can we ignore the determination of local governments and the private sector to act where national governments have not . to get and keep all governments on board , however , a low-carbon transition must be inclusive .
defend “ family values ” , whatever that means . recently , a group of parliamentarians ( quite a large one – 30 deputies ` s ’ ) left the majority post-solidarity party , creating a new “ polish family ” party with the slogan that the ruling coalition is in “ brussels ’s service . ” a less agressive anti-europeanism comes from a tendency that struggles for old values like honor and virtue . in practice , this movement also has little incentive to do with fear of change . but here , too , people who have been active in the former “ solidarity ” movement – for them a movement of community rather than individuals , a movement for public rather than private freedom – form a new euro-antagonists bloc .
that may be part of the story , but competition for talent and for customers seems intense between investment banks and others , yet collectively extravagantly rewarded at the expense of those customers . an alternative hypothesis that seems to fit the facts recently emerged from paul woolley center for the study of dysfunctionality in capital markets , at the london school of economics . researchers there argue that in fragile speculative industries ( and finance certainly has been in this category in recent years ) , it is hard for investors to monitor those who manage their money . they can see short-term returns , but they do not understand very well how those returns are generated . managers can demand higher and higher returns in the upturn .
the united states is consistently ranked among the top ten countries for innovation , including the insead global innovation index . but , on the global peace index , it ranks 88th out of 153 countries . likewise , the united kingdom and the netherlands rank , respectively , fifth , and sixth on the innovation index , but only 28th and 29th on the un peace index . conversely , bhutan is among the top 20 peaceful nations , but it does not even make it onto innovation indices . of course , crime , terrorism , conflict , and political instability severe enough to cause total breakdown of law and order significantly impede creativity and innovation .
but merkel still defends weber , and , in addition to macron and dutch prime minister mark rutte , most eu leaders remain reluctant to confront the european parliament on the spitzenkandidaten issue . that may shorten the odds for margrethe vestager – who is not from the epp , but who is , in a sense , the liberal spitzenkandidat – while lengthening them for michel barnier , who is from the epp , but is not the spitzenkandidat . if the council succeeds in ruling weber and his populist supporters , macron will claim it as a success . finally , the election provides a check on german hegemony within the eu more broadly . germany ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) has been weakened , and the country ’s greens have grown stronger .
on january 1 , 2007 , ban ki-moon , south korea ’s former foreign minister , will become united nations secretary-general , following kofi annan ’s ten-year tenure . annan inspired the world with his diplomacy and leadership on poverty reduction and human rights , but the war in iraq divided the world and drew attention and financial resources away from crisis regions and critical long-term problems like climate change , disease control , sustainable energy , and access to water . with recent elections in the united states and the rise of asia ’s global influence , there is an opportunity to turn the world ’s attention to the most critical challenges facing our planet . beyond the long-term challenges of poverty , the environment , nuclear proliferation , and un reform , the new secretary-general will inherit a long list of hotspots : iraq , iran , afghanistan , palestine , lebanon , somalia , myanmar , sudan , north korea , and elsewhere . recent attempts to influence these countries through threats and sanctions , and sometimes war , have failed .
that is why the disastrous free-for-all in trade policy during the 1930 ’s greatly aggravated the great depression . many complain that something similar , if less grand in scope , is taking place today . an outfit called global trade alert ( gta ) has been at the forefront , raising alarm bells about what it calls a “ protectionist juggernaut . ” the gta ’s latest report identifies no fewer than 192 separate protectionist actions since november 2008 , with china as the most common goal . this number has been widely quoted in the financial press .
if people come to a country to earn higher wages , the pie available for distribution gets bigger ; but if they come for the social benefits , the pie gets smaller . given this , why not have a system in which host countries and countries of origin share the social benefits for migrants ? host countries could assume responsibility for administering benefits such as unemployment insurance , sick pay , and pensions . and countries of origin could continue to provide benefits not related to the relationship of employment , such as child allowances for children staying at home and services for migrants who are too old or sick to work when they arrive . such a change would create win-win status for the eu , because it would reduce the destructive appeal of welfare magnetism and give the british grounds to rethink their exit decisions with their heads held high .
what is needed for a long time has been clear . the price of the monetary union ’s survival , and thus that of the european project , is more community : a banking union , a fiscal union , and a political union . those who oppose this because they fear common accountability , transfers from rich to poor , and loss of national sovereignty will have to accept european re-nationalization – and thus its exit from the world stage . no alternative – and certainly not a statusquo – will work . it has become common in europe that the ongoing crisis will either destroy the eu or bring about a political union , and that , without a solidarity-based solution to existing debt and partial mutualization of new debt , europe can not be saved .
the eu is not deprived of instruments – so-called “ structural funds ” that finance investment in poorer regions – but it has no strategy to use them . so the outcome of months of discussion might be better characterized as “ emu 1.7.3 ” than “ emu 2.0 . ” more bugs will have to be fixed , including new bugs found in fixes . for investors , the reform process may seem impossibly long and hesitant . but , by the standards of international negotiations and european governance , it has been exceptionally fast .
although educational possibilities and structures have been progressively diversified , the main shortcoming of most european education systems remains : students have too few choices , and teachers , if they want to remain in their profession , must adhere to severely compartmentalized pedagogy . as with corporate monopolies , consumers ( students ) are often seen as homogeneous mass , where all students can be educated according to the same pedagogical approach . but schools must be able to meet individual children ’s needs and abilities in ways that enable them to learn the stimulating adventure . other countries might find sweden ’s system worth studying . its schools are financed by local communities , and work within the framework of a national curriculum designed by parliament and government .
from that standpoint , they are in and out of prison systems , and have little chance of ever getting a legal job that enables them to escape poverty . their children grow up without a parent at home – and without hope and support . the children of drug users often become drug users themselves ; they , too , often end up in jail or suffer violence or premature death . what is crazy about this is that the us missed the obvious point – and missed it for 40 years . to break the cycle of poverty , a country needs to invest in its children ’s future , rather than imprisonment for 2.3 million people per year , many for non-violent crimes that are symptoms of poverty .
the non-residential construction boom this created helped not only absorb the labor force , which left rural areas but also achieve a remarkable reduction in inequality . in this services-export-led growth strategy , skill shortages have not become a major problem , thanks to a fairly open immigration policy that has allowed the country to exploit the talent that colombia , among other countries , has been unable to keep . the comparison between these two approaches is clear . colombia ’s policymakers have been hoping that if they adopt best-practice legislation and regulation , somebody will come . and , unless they do , they can still bask in the international accolades they receive from foreign entities .
moreover , there is now massive re-leveraging of the public sector in advanced economies , with huge budget deficits and public-debt accumulation fueled by automatic stabilizers , counter-cyclical keynesian fiscal stimulus , and the immense costs of socializing the financial system ’s losses . at best , we face a protracted period of anemic , below-trend growth in the advanced economies as deleveraging by households , financial institutions , and governments begins to feed through to consumption and investment . at the global level , over-spending countries – the united states , the united kingdom , spain , greece , and elsewhere – now need deleveraging and spending to deleverage , consuming , and importing less . but the countries that have saved too much – china , emerging asia , germany , and japan – are not spending more to compensate for the fall in spending by deleveraging countries . the recovery in global aggregate demand will thus be weak , pushing global growth much lower .
the current crisis , the fall of wall street , is to neo-liberalism what the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 was to communism . the global dimension of this crisis , unsurprisingly , also has a positive side . the international community is now charged with thinking about how to reform the financial sector and minimize the risk of a similar catastrophe in the future . until now , a major part of the problem was countries ’ unwillingness to cooperate . previous demands for stricter regulation came to nothing , owing to the opposition of the financial sector .
as much as possible , the liberal state should be neutral on such matters , leaving it to each citizen to determine whether he should give his financial support to the church of rome or the one at bayreuth . in contrast to the french tradition ’s militant liberalism , this neutralist liberal philosophy strives to prevent either side in the ongoing culture war from using the state ’s coercive powers of taxation as a weapon in the struggle for the soul of men . in advocating disestablishment of both religious and secular orthodoxies , i do not wish to trivialize the significance of their ongoing contest over the meaning of life . it is because of the infinite significance of this great debate that the state should strive to be neutral . after all , if the state ostentatiously takes sides in this conversation , it can not avoid denigrating the ultimate convictions of many of its dissenting citizens .
new york – twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall and the collapse of communism , the world is facing another stark choice between two fundamentally different forms of organization : international capitalism and state capitalism . the former , represented by the united states , has broken down , and the latter , represented by china , is on the rise . following the path of least resistance , the international financial system will lead to gradual disintegration . a new multilateral system , based on sounder principles , must be invented . while international cooperation on regulatory reform is difficult to achieve on piecemeal basis , it may be attainable in a grand bargain that reupholds the entire financial order .
mario monti , the european union ’s commissioner for competition policy , is often in the spotlight , usually popular acclaim . over the years , he won important victories limiting state aid to entrepreneurship , one of europe ’s most pernicious economic maladies . today , however , the benefits derived from his achievements are at risk , owing to a series of stunning courtroom defeats . with the competition case against the software giant microsoft seemingly in the offing , monti will need to rediscover his footing fast . within just a few weeks , the european court of justice ( to which private parties can appeal decisions made by the commission ) voided three of monti ’s decisions rejecting proposed corporate mergers .
so many proud and dignified people have been stripped of their livelihoods , forcing them to rely on one tiny meal a day or nothing at all . worse , these tragedies have been avoidable ; we know that these crises are coming . drought and hunger are slow-motion calamities that , with adequate planning and sufficient resources , can be averted . but time and time , humanitarian assistance in africa has come up short , as it did in somalia in 2011 and 2012 ; in niger in 2005 ; and in ethiopia during the 1980s . then , as now , food insecurity was predicted long before the first hunger pangs felt .
the bottom chessboard includes transnational relations that cross borders outside governments ’ control – everything from drugs to infectious diseases to climate change to transnational terrorism . on this board , power is chaotically distributed among non-state actors . no government can control outcomes without cooperation . here the us needs the help of europeans , and makes little sense to call this uni-polar world either . on this bottom board , the degree of close civilian cooperation is also important , affecting a country ’s attractiveness or soft power .
translation : orderly resolution by global megabanks is an illusion . as long as we allow cross-border banks at or near their current scale , our political leaders will be unable to tolerate failure . and , because these large financial institutions are by any meaningful definition “ too big to fail , ” they can borrow more cheaply than would otherwise be the case . worse , they have both motive and opportunity to grow even larger . this form of government support amounts to a large implicit subsidy for big banks .
and , by raising the cost of extracting fossil fuels , it would contribute to the eventual phase-out of a climate-safe sector . fortunately , the world will not have to wait for moral suasion to carry the day . fossil-fuel companies and governments are already facing intensifying legal pressure . typhoon survivors in the philippines have delivered a complaint to the country ’s human-rights commission , calling for investigations into big fossil-fuel companies ’ responsibility for causing climate change . the dutch group urgenda and nearly 900 co-plaintiffs successfully sued the dutch government , forcing it to adopt more stringent climate policies .
for example , a few years ago chip-maker national semiconductor managed a complicated delivery system linking its three factories and three subcontractors in asia to its global network of customers . it chose to out-source this operation to federal express , which uses a sophisticated on-line system to manage global supply and sales . as a result , national semiconductor saw its delivery cycle to customers from four weeks to a week , with distribution costs cutting from 2.9 % of sales to 1.2 % of sales . several steps are needed to support a massive increase in internet use in these other locations : * telecommunications liberalization , including entry of new private service providers , is critical to reducing costs and spreading benefits .
if governments run larger fiscal deficits and finance this not with interest-bearing debt , but with central-bank money – nominal demand will undoubtedly increase , producing some mix of higher inflation and higher real output . as a result , the option of so-called helicopter money is increasingly discussed . but the debate about it is riddled with confusions . it is often argued that monetizing fiscal deficits would commit central banks to keeping interest rates low forever , an approach that is bound to produce excessive inflation . it is simultaneously argued ( sometimes even by the same people ) that monetary financing would not stimulate demand , because people fear a future “ inflationary tax . ”
geneva – when lehman brothers declared bankruptcy ten years ago , it suddenly became unclear who owed what to whom to whom to whom they who could not pay down their debts and who would go down next . the result was that interbank credit markets froze , wall street panicked , and businesses went under , not just in the united states but around the world . with policymakers struggling to respond to the crisis , economic pundits were left wondering whether the “ great moderation ” of low business-cycle volatility since the 1980s turned into another great depression . in hindsight , complacency in the run-up to the crisis was clearly unconscionable . and yet little has changed in its aftermath .
coalition partners disagree about how urgent this issue is to sort out . nonetheless , they have agreed that within a year , a commission will provide different options and models to protect the german parliament ’s rights , while providing assurances to germany ’s european partners that the country will be a reliable contributor to troop deployments . should the spd , which votes in early december on a coalition agreement , block the formation of a new government ( an unlikely development but not entirely out of the question ) , disputes over security and defense affairs would not be the culprit . aside from a few minor particulars , consensus prevails . for some , this is a cause for ambivalence .
badly needed biosafety legislation in nigeria and uganda , for example , has already been delayed . much of the problem lies with a small group of anti-gm activists who object to “ moral ” technology . typically , they argue that gm crops are unsafe – a view flatly rejected by the scientific community over the past two decades . the world health organization has also confirmed that “ no effects on human health have been shown as a result of the consumption of such foods . ” indeed , every new gm crop variety must meet rigorous health , environmental , and efficacy standards .
perhaps regulators will find that they must require that the regulated have the desired contract provisions . that solution will be incomplete , however , because not all derivatives traders are regulated by financial institutions , and because many creditors would find ways to circumvent the contract and requirement . if coverage is not complete , one can expect the regulated to complain that they have been placed at a competitive disadvantage . regulators may well need to turn bankruptcy laws to fix the problem . regulators ’ call to the isda for voluntary action will not amount to much if it is just a request to the derivatives industry to act against its own financial interests .
the result was section 124a of the penal code , under which any person who used “ words , signs , or visible representation … excite disaffection against the government ” could be charged with sedition , potentially sentenced to life imprisonment . in other words , no free speech for indians has been shown to be free speech . but even that was not enough for britain ’s leaders , who tightened the law further in 1898 , making it even harsher than the sedition law in england . the british had concluded , in the words of the british lieutenant governor of bengal , that “ a sedition law that is adequate for a people ruled by a government of its own nationality and faith may be inadequate , or in some respects unsuited , for a country under foreign rule . ” sedition was thus explicitly intended as an instrument to terrorize indian nationalists ; indeed , mahatma gandhi was among its prominent victims , though far from its last .
seoul – china – already the world ’s largest exporter , manufacturer and international-reserve asset holder , is poised to overtake the united states as the world ’s largest economy ( measured in purchasing power parity terms ) this year . now , it is using its growing clout to reshape global economic governance . indeed , the country ’s days after deng xiaoping ’s injunction to “ hide brightness and cherish obscurity ” are long gone . after decades of actively participating in international economic institutions – including the g-20 , the international monetary fund , the world bank , and the world trade organization – china has begun to resemble a revisionist power seeking to establish a new world order . last month , china and 20 other asian countries signed the memorandum of understanding to establish the new multilateral development bank , the asian infrastructure investment bank .
progress on the single market has helped to boost competitiveness . new free-trade agreements give european economies access to major markets worldwide . achieving a global climate agreement promises not only to protect the environment , but also to cement europe ’s role as a leader in sustainability . and enlargement has enhanced european security substantially . by all reasonable standards , these are remarkable uk-led achievements .
a special report on semiconductors – essential to america ’s national security and economic competitiveness – for president barack obama ’s council of advisors on science and technology ( pcast ) provides some answers . the report , written by a nonpartisan group of business and academic leaders ( i was a member ) , proposed that the american people work with its allies to enforce international law , push china to comply with its world trade organization obligations , and strengthen export controls and inward investment restrictions . the european union , japan , south korea , and taiwan all have prominent roles in the global supply chain for semiconductors , and some have already tightened security on semiconductor ip flows to china and to acquire semiconductor companies by chinese investors . the pcast report recommends that the american adopt similar tactics , calibrating export controls , and inward investment limits on china ’s behavior . proposed bipartisan legislation to expand the jurisdiction of the committee on foreign investment in the us ( which reviews mergers and acquisitions by foreign entities ) to a broader range of investment – including chinese venture capital and private-
business-led innovation and market-based solutions can drive a decisive global shift from crippling fossil-fuel dependency to more efficient renewable-energy systems . rocky mountain institute ’s reinventing fire analysis shows that such a future is possible , offering market-driven strategies for powering a american economy that is 158 % larger in 2050 – without reliance on oil , coal , or nuclear energy . swift and determined action to make buildings more energy-efficient , design automobiles that require little or no fossil fuels , and increase the share of renewable energy in electricity supply could ensure that a substantially hotter and less pleasant 2050 world that the ipcc warns against does not materialize . our livelihoods , not to mention those of future generations , should not be held hostage by our ongoing dependence on fossil fuels . four decades ago , countries not only endured the immediate economic impact of the opec embargo ; they leveraged the potential of the resulting oil shortages to spur innovation .
captured uranium was not weapons-grade ; international inspectors removed all sensitive material from iraq following the 1991 gulf war ( which is why it was absent when the united states invaded in 2003 ) . but what international response , if any , would have been initiated had the cacit been highly enriched ? on the same day , hamas launched three powerful iranian-designed rockets from gaza at israel ’s dimona reactor . luckily , two missed the target , and israel succeeded in intercepting the third . but the episode represented a serious escalation of hostilities , serving as an important reminder of the vulnerability of nuclear reactors in warzones .
although the dollar appreciation has taken some pressure off non-us economies that depend on exports or foreign capital , it has increased the risk of an open currency war . at the same time , not all indicators are grim . labor markets remain largely healthy , even in otherwise anemic economies like germany , and household consumption remains strong in most major economies . moreover , the september surge in oil prices , which raised fears of another negative growth shock , has since receded . the american economy reflects this dichotomy .
in personal-computing business – which moved from apple ’s bulky apple ii to the sleek and intelligent iphone 4s ( announced the day before steve ’s death ) – steve was the only true showman of what is now one of the world ’s largest industries . he inspired broad public enthusiasm for the quality of his products , and his personal charisma . ( others became “ business ” leaders , but only steve became someone known and admired by millions – including romanian waiter at the british airways parlance where i now sit . ) i first met steve jobs in 1979 or 1980 , at ben rosen ’s personal computer forum . for some reason , it was held at the playboy resort in lake geneva ( never again ! ) .
cambridge – america ’s real gdp growth rate of 3.2 % for the first quarter of this year is impressive , as was the 3 % average growth rate in 2018 ( measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 ) . since the end of the great recession – from 2011 to 2017 – the american economy has grown at an average rate of just 2.1 % per year , on average . what accounts for the recent acceleration ? following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
closed-list systems should be zippered with candidate lists : male , male , female , female ( or vice versa ) . in open-list systems , a 50 % quota should be adopted . with no accuracy , the impact of a quota percentages increase in open-list systems currently having effective quota legislation can not be predicted . but if these countries replace their open lists with closed lists , the percentage of women elected should be equal , up by around 10 % . the impact would be greatest ( resulting in a roughly 20 % jump in the percentage of women elected ) in systems that currently have no effective quota legislation .
trump has systematically defied the separation of powers at the heart of america ’s constitutional system . frustrated , for example , that congress denied him all the funds he wanted for his phantasmagorical wall along the border with mexico , trump has simply plucked the money from funds that congress allocated for the department of defense . he has also flouted the constitutional prohibition on accepting emoluments – money or personal benefits from foreign governments that do business , sometimes extravagant share , at his various hotels and golf clubs – and found other ways to monetize the presidency . moreover , trump has tried to steer government contracts toward favored companies , or away from those he dislikes – amazon , for example , whose founder , jeff bezos , also owns the washington post . and , according to special counsel robert mueller ’s report , trump has tried to obstruct the investigation into his 2016 campaign dealings with russia .
when debt becomes unsustainable , there are several possible negotiating outcomes . sometimes debt-service payments are rescheduled and perhaps stretched over the longer term , thereby giving the debtor country time to regain its ability to pay . sometimes creditors agree to exchange old bonds for new ones , which have either a lower face value or lower interest payments . few governments refuse to pay at all . argentina defaulted on its debt in 2001 , when it was in default .
this “ tipping point ” strategy is highly cost-effective . but a strategy can be “ cost-effective ” only if feasible . while ring “ covenlaxis ” might work in minneapolis , toronto , or zurich , parts of the world where flu pandemics start , the probability of success approaches zero . in places like vietnam , indonesia , and china – where pandemic strain is likely to originate – expertise , coordination , discipline , and infrastructure are lacking . the response in turkey – where , as many as 50 possible cases have appeared in the eastern part of the country – is instructive .
it remains the vital assembly center for many manufactured goods worldwide , such as computers and cell phones , that enables lower prices for global consumers . that has made china a key trade partner for the united states , most european countries , and many other economies , in addition to placing it at the center of intra-asian trade and supply-chain dynamics . moreover , while china sits on roughly $ 3.3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves – much of it in dollars , it also has other major currencies – owing to its large trade surplus in recent decades . it helps to finance other countries ’ trade deficits and domestic investment ( many of its beneficiaries have large budget deficits that are shrinking national saving below domestic investment ) . deng xiaoping ’s reforms ignited the most rapid economic improvement in human history , and , with it , the emergence of a large and growing middle class .
for ukraine ’s government , angst is real . even ukrainians born after 1986 understand what a chernobyl-type catastrophe brought about by battle could look like . history offers little guidance as to whether warring countries would avoid damaging nuclear sites . with the exception of the balkan conflict of the 1990s , wars were not fought against or within countries with nuclear reactors . in the balkan case , serbian military jets overflew slovenia ’s krško nuclear power plant in a threatening gesture early in the conflict , while radical serbian nationalists called for attacks to release radioactive contents .
china took full advantage of the kremlin ’s desperation , securing rock-bottom rates for russian energy resources . once the door to asia was opened , however , russian companies seized the opportunity to enter india ’s downstream markets and indonesia – two critical countries that are critical of the saudis ’ own strategy . over the past two years or so , saudi arabia has made starkly clear that it will not easily give up its market share – to anyone . it has pursued a campaign to recover its former position not only in crude , but also in petroleum products , natural gas liquids , and petrochemicals . to this end , it has sustained a price war , supported by a surge in production , aimed at pushing out weaker competitors .
indeed , attaining , prospering , and flourishing all refer to the “ win-win ” rewards , rather than money . what sort of economy would offer this good life ? history suggests that it would be one of entrepreneurial people ( alert to unnoticed opportunities and exercising their initiative to try new things ) and innovative people ( imagining new things , developing new concepts into commercial products and methods , and marketing them to potential ) . participants in such a good economy would range from grassroots society to the most privileged . this is the kind of economy that i hope that china will develop .
( though perhaps this is not automation proper – the supermarket has just shifted some shopping work onto the customer . ) for those who dread the threat that automation poses to low-skilled labor , a ready answer is to train people for better jobs . but technological progress is now eating up better jobs . a wide range of jobs that we now think of as skilled , secure , and irreducibly human may be the next casualties of technological change . as a recent paper in the financial times points out , in two areas notoriously immune to productivity increases , education , and health care , technology is already reducing the demand for skilled labor .
in august , gunmen invaded the home of an impoverished roma widow , maria balogh , shot her to death and wounded her 13-year-old daughter . in april , killers gunned down a roma factory worker as he walked to his job . in february , a roma father and his five-year-old son were killed in front of their home near budapest . the house was burned to the ground . last november , a roma couple was killed in northeastern hungary .
a more rational approach would accept twenty-first-century realities . the information revolution changed the world in ways that tariffs can not reverse . with american workers already competing against robots at home and against low-wage workers abroad , disrupting imports will simply create more jobs for robots . trump should protect individual workers , not individual jobs . twenty-first-century processes of globalization are too sudden , unpredictable , and uncontrollable to rely on static measures like tariffs .
he very probably means what he says about jews and israel , but is he a latter-day hitler , and is iran the equivalent of germany in the 1930 ’s ? hitler came close to developing a nuclear bomb , but never had it , whereas iran might very well . but hitler ’s power over germany was far more absolute than ahmadinejad ’s power over iran . the results of iran ’s recent municipal elections were humiliating for ahmadinejad and his supporters . those elections would have been unthinkable in nazi germany .
but this requires a rich reservoir of ideas , not a unified approach . the second principle is subsidiarity , which holds that decision-making should be decentralized whenever possible . this ensures that local and regional preferences are viewed alongside the effects of eurozone-wide harmonization and economies of scale . the last principle is congruity , to ensure that decision-makers are accountable for outcomes in their decisions . this means that as long as european electorates insist on retaining sovereignty over fiscal and economic policymaking , shared liability will be a pipe dream .
george w. bush ’s economic policies were based on an extraordinarily reckless gamble that reflects a political coalition of two major powers : the super-rich and evangelical christians . as those policies fail , global financial markets react negatively , adding uncertainty to the global economy , and little relief is in sight , because america is entering a period of prolonged political infighting and stalemate . the super-rich had one over-riding objective in joining the bush coalition : tax cuts that overwhelmingly benefited the wealthiest households . evangelicals were brought on by so-called “ family values , ” meaning opposition to abortion and gay marriage , and promises of active government support for religious activities , including direct payments to religious groups for social services that they provide locally and internationally . the bush team believed that they would eventually balance the tax cuts for the rich with cuts in government spending , but never explain this to the public .
some large eu countries are on the brink of recession , and they are on the brink of recession . japan in the early 1990 ’s waited too long to act and missed the right opportunity to enact countermeasures , which is why japan has not yet recovered from its long stagnation . public investment in infrastructure ( such as the massive expansion of the european railroad network ) , together with climate protection and environmental technology , will be needed . to strengthen purchasing power and stimulate consumption , tax cuts on low - and medium-income households are essential . to be sure , eu member states should determine the concrete form that such economic stabilization programs take for themselves .
for europe , africa ’s economic potential remains far from tapped . spending by households and businesses , estimated at $ 4 trillion in 2015 , is projected to reach $ 5.6 trillion by 2025 , reflecting 3.5 % annual growth . moreover , according to the mckinsey global institute , investment opportunities stemming from infrastructure demand in africa will total at least $ 150 billion annually over the next decade . africa is also home to strategic natural resources for emerging low-carbon industries , and is well positioned to play a key role in renewable energy . africa ’s value as a trade and investment partner is not news to europe .
a far more competent placeholder would have been sergei ivanov , a former kgb general . but ivanov is much taller than putin , who at any rate had achieved only the rank of colonel . an obvious potential threat to putin ’s power , ivanov passed over , and has since been relegated to the role of russia ’s “ chief botanist , ” overseeing the environment and transportation . earlier this month , putin was inaugurated – or , rather , crowned – in spectacular fashion , with medvedev once again assuming the role of pliant prime minister . despite his years in office , medvedev is still known more for his fancy ties and expensive watches than for his executive actions .
cambridge – government programs to support pensioners are in trouble in every country , owing to rising life expectancy and rising retirement ratios to taxpayers . the problem will worsen in the years ahead as the adverse demographic trend increases the fiscal burden of financing pensions and health care . the problem is uniquely different in the united states , because america ’s “ trust fund ” system of social security financing will create a crisis when the fund is exhausted . though the options at that time will be different from the choices that other governments face , policies to avoid america ’s crisis are relevant to other countries that confront population aging . here is how the american system works : a payroll tax is dedicated exclusively to financing retiree benefits .
indeed , while scandals have shaken the government , lula was overwhelmingly reelected last year , and investors continue to pour money into the stock market . one reason is that corruption scandals have provided an opportunity for investors to see brazilian freedom of speech and democracy in action . newspapers and television commentators have been relentless in reporting the scandals , helping to prove brazilians and foreign investors alike that the political system is sufficiently stable to withstand open criticism . lula remains popular with brazilians , because his populist rhetoric shows real sympathy with the less affluent , and with foreign investors because he has always tempered his radicalism to accommodate economic reality . he recently criticized bolivian president evo morales ’s threats to seize foreign assets for his failure in this regard : “ radicalism is incompatible with the common sense needed by someone who governs . ”
the two organization of american states electoral observation missions that he himself invited , and whose terms he accepted then refused to certify the outcome . the bolivian military arrested no one , and the bolivian military arrested no one . true , morales resigned when the military told him to do so , and after agreeing to protesters ’ demands for a new vote . but existing constitutional provisions subsequently followed . the constitutional court , which allowed morales to run , deemed the rule of presidential succession legal ; timely elections were promised ; and the military did not take power .
and they – resent the point of mobilizing in the streets – any hint that a clique at the top is barring their way . this is a sort of free democratic spirit that operates outside the convention that elections decide the government . it is fueled enormously by social media ( itself a revolutionary phenomenon ) . and it moves very quickly in precipitating crisis . it is not always consistent or rational .
countries were obliged to commit only limited trade liberalization , with plenty of exceptions for socially sensitive sectors ( agriculture , textiles , services ) . this left them free to build their own versions of national capitalism , as long as they obeyed a few simple international rules . the current crisis shows how far we have come from this model . financial globalization , in particular , played havoc with old rules . when chinese-style capitalism met american-style capitalism , with few safety valves in place , it gave rise to an explosive mix .
so , even if america had no other interests in the middle east , such as israel or nuclear non-proliferation , a balance of energy imports and exports would be unlikely to free the us from military expenditures – which some experts estimate would run to $ 50 billion a year – to protect the region ’s oil routes . at the same time , america ’s bargaining position in world politics should be strengthened . power arises from asymmetries of interdependence . you and i may depend on one another , but if i depend on you less than you do on me , my bargaining power is increased . for decades , the us and saudi arabia have had a balance of asymmetries in which the us depended on them as the swing producer of oil , and depended on the us for ultimate military security .
european commission president jean-claude juncker , for example , openly frets about deep divisions among eu member states over brexit , and questions whether “ hungarians and poles want exactly the same things as germans and french . ” at the national level , lack of political will has resulted in the craven use of referenda , such as the french and dutch plebiscites on the treaty establishing a european constitution in 2005 , the netherlands ’ vote on the eu-ukraine association agreement last april , and the brexit referendum almost three months later . in each case , voters said , “ no ” – outcomes that can be blamed , particularly in the uk , on national leaders ’ habit of blaming the eu for domestic problems . indeed , european leaders ’ parochialism are a major reason why the eu is failing to retain broad-based public support . the lack of historical vision among the current generation of political leadership undermines the shared sense of purpose needed to make eu citizens feel that they are part of the same community , regardless of their different national identities .
florence – british politics has always been something of an experimental laboratory for the industrialized world . in the 1970s , britain was where the preeminent postwar model of how to manage the economy collapsed . that model was based politically on the creation of consensus , and economically on keynesian demand management . today , the equivalent collapse was of an “ regulation-lite ” regime , in which a party that styled itself as “ new labour ” accepted a powerful role for markets – particularly in largely deregulated financial markets . in the 1960s , keynesian policies delivered the illusion that everyone benefited , with high levels of employment and significant wage growth .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . palestine ’s religious landmarks attract an increasing number of religious tourists from around the world each year .
as french cities burned , other countries were very severe in judging france . embassies issued warnings to tourists and their citizens living in france ; television news programs showed hours of footage of burning cars . other countries ’ governments , it seems , have been trying to distance themselves from the problem , fearing contagion that they know is likely to spread . mayors across europe , however , have responded moderately , feeling , and showing solidarity with the plight of their french colleagues . they know that their cities are also vulnerable to urban violence , in such a way that they have pockets of social inequality , including marginalized and excluded young people .
meanwhile , the supply of most commodities is forecast to grow by no more than 2 % annually in real terms . all else being equal unless china ’s commodity intensity , defined as the amount of commodity consumed to generate a unit of output , falls dramatically , its demand for commodities will be greater this year than it was last year . as long as china ’s commodity demand grows at a higher rate than global supply , prices will rise . and the rapid economic growth that china ’s leaders must sustain to lift enormous numbers of people out of poverty – and thus to prevent a crisis of legitimacy – places a floor under global food , energy , and mineral prices . to be sure , the intensity of use has fallen for some commodities , such as gold and nuclear energy ; but , for others , such as aluminum and coal , it has risen since 2000 or , as is the case for copper and oil , declines have slowed markedly or stalled at high levels .
earlier this year , he was diagnosed with cancer and forced to launch a social-media campaign to locate the drugs that his treatment required . severe shortages of life-saving drugs in venezuela are the result of the government ’s default on a $ 3.5 billion bill for pharmaceutical imports . a similar situation prevails throughout the rest of the economy . payment arrears on food imports amount to $ 2.4 billion , leading to substantial shortages of staple goods . in the automobile sector , the default exceeds $ 3 billion , leading to the collapse of transport services as a result of spare parts .
will it have to get the bomb , too ? likewise , while egypt is in the midst of a messy revolution , and it must give priority to internal change , it also intends to regain a more visible and influential role within the palestinian national movement ( s ) and in the region as a whole . the middle east ’s “ middle east empire ” will no longer remain a sleeping giant . of course , turkey is less destabilized than its arab rivals and partners by a revolutionary process that does not directly challenge it . after all , turkey is already a functioning democracy .
if “ constitutionalized ” , they simply implant the idea that the constitution is a declaration of aspirations rather than a set of enforceable legal rights . the desire to limit or protect some forms of human activity from the free market may be understandable , particularly in countries like poland , where the free market remains an unknown animal . but in a situation in which many fields of social life – such as education , health , and social services – need quick and radical change , unleashing the free market to do its work offers the only plausible avenue for change . state-owned health insurance companies , the state guaranteed retirement , etc. are not only insecure and inefficient ; they are also at odds with the idea of political reform . these state-controlled benefits have little to do with justice supposedly wanted by their socialist promoters , but everything to rent-seeking and corruption .
bollywood movies , bringing their glitzy entertainment far beyond the indian diaspora in the united states and the united kingdom , offer another example . senegalese friend told me of his illiterate mother who takes a bus to dakar every month to watch a bollywood film – she does not understand the hindi dialogue and can not read the french subtitles , but she can still catch the films ’ spirit and understand the story , and people like her view india with stars in their eyes as an outcome . an indian diplomat in damascus a few years ago told me that the only publicly displayed portraits as big as those of then-president hafez al-assad were of bollywood superstar amitabh bachchan . indian art , classical music , and dance have the same effect . so does the work of indian fashion designers , now striding across the world runways .
new delhi – barack obama , america ’s sixth president to visit india since it gained independence , arrives at an effort both for the united states and for india . some of obama ’s closest advisers have just resigned , opening the awkward gap in national security and the economy – a focus of his meetings with india ’s government . for india , the issues on the obama agenda ’s visit are immense and complex , and the options for resolving them are extremely limited . those related to security in afghanistan and pakistan are as treacherous as they have ever been . bilateral economic , trade , and currency disagreements may not be as bitter as they are between the us and china , but they are thorny , and the lack of resolution makes them more intractable .
moreover , knowledge-intensive technology has winner-take-all effects , whereby hubs seize access to knowledge and power , leaving less-privileged groups , classes , sectors , and regions struggling to compete . thanks to social media , the resulting discontent now spreads faster than ever before , leading to destructive politics . this can invite geopolitical interference , which quickly deteriorated into a lose-lose scenario , like that already apparent in water-stressed and conflict-affected countries , where governments are fragile or failing . the combination of bad politics and economics in one country can easily produce contagion , as rising migration spreads political stress and instability to other countries . according to the un high commission on refugees , last year , 65 million refugees were refugees , compared to just 1.6 million in 1960 .
many have cited former british prime minister david cameron ’s decision to allow scotland ’s independence referendum to take place in 2014 . but such a process is illegal under the 1978 spanish constitution . that constitution marked the country ’s passage from dictatorship to democracy , and provided the framework for spain ’s rule-of-law system . and , as it explicitly states , it is “ based on the insoluble unity of the spanish nation , ” with sovereignty belonging “ to the spanish people . ” in short , spain is one nation indivisible .
geneva – the world needs to stop looking backward . since the 2008 financial crisis , we have wasted far too much energy trying to return to the days of rapid economic expansion . the flawed assumption that the post-crisis world ’s challenges have been only temporary has underpinned policies that yielded only lackluster recoveries , while failing to address key problems like high unemployment and rising inequality . the post-crisis era is over , and the “ post-post-crisis world ” is upon us . it is time to adopt a new framework for realistic solutions that promote shared prosperity within today ’s global economy and tomorrow .
indeed , it is notable that while obama ’s state of the union address in january 2010 , at least mentioned doha , his address in january 2011 did not . obama confined himself to promoting pending bilateral agreements with colombia and other emerging-market countries . obama ’s regrettable retreat from support for the doha round is the product of many factors and fallacies . these were highlighted in an “ open letter to obama ” that i organized and released , over nearly 50 of today ’s most influential trade experts worldwide , urging a presidential shift in policy toward doha . american president barack obama is captive to the country ’s labor unions , who buy the false narrative that trade with poor countries is increasing the ranks of the poor in the us by driving down wages .
some people even predict a double-dip recession , and the us would be a half the world ’s . if that happens , the chance of an actual american default would be much higher than it is today . these new worries raise alarm bells in china . diversification away from dollar assets is advice . but this is no easy task , especially in the short term .
berkeley – investors worldwide are increasingly looking for investment opportunities that promise to bring environmental and social benefits , in addition to market-driven rates of return . if this trend continues , with environmental or social objectives enhancing the value of investment , it will strengthen the commitment to sustainability that is already gaining momentum among companies worldwide . last year , one out of every $ 6.6 trillion of assets under professional management in the united states – a total of $ 6.6 trillion – was allocated toward some form of sustainable investment , especially public equities . some 1,260 companies , managing $ 45 trillion worth of assets , are signatories of the united nations ’ “ principles for responsible investment , ” recognizing environmental , social , and governance ( esg ) factors – and thus corporate and markets ’ long-term health and stability – as critical to investors . one signatory , calpers , one of the world ’s largest institutional investors , has gone a step further : it will require all of its investment managers to identify and integrate esg factors into their decisions – a bold move that could transform
in international politics , perceptions matter – sometimes more so than reality . the perception today is that america ’s unipolar moment has come to an end ; europe is on the decline ; and a new set of powers is rising , bringing their own unique worldviews to global affairs . in a sense , this might seem like a good thing . more varied perspectives could enrich the multilateral process and generate more comprehensive solutions to global problems . but this multipolar dynamic also generates instability .
some supermarket chains even ceased to carry eggs from battery hens . in britain and some european countries , animal welfare became politically salient , and pressure on parliamentary representatives mounted . the european union established a scientific committee to investigate animal-welfare issues on farms , and the committee recommended banning a battery cage along with some other forms of close confinement of pigs and calves . a ban on eu battery cages was eventually adopted in 1999 , but to ensure that producers would have plenty of time to phase out the equipment in which they had invested , its implementation was delayed until january 1 , 2012 . to its credit , the british egg industry accepted the situation , developing new and less cruel methods for keeping hens in check .
finally , the same accounts could serve as vehicles for public policy . early school-leavers , for example , could be endowed with points for later use in professional training . more broadly , rather than assisting people only when social risks materialize , public policy could support individuals throughout their working lives by adopting a more effective bespoke approach that fits peoples ’ needs better than coarsely tailored schemes . this may sound utopian ; in a sense , it is . but at a time when every digital service becomes more and personalized , why should social policy remain confined to twentieth-century philosophy and solutions ?
it used to be that even mentioning corruption in some official circles was considered taboo . but corruption poses the single biggest obstacle to growth and development in many countries , especially as it diverts resources from the poor . the world bank insisted that corruption be viewed as a cancer , and that fighting it is synonymous with fighting poverty . indeed , outspokenness was the hallmark of wolfensohn ’s tenure . many government secretary , bank officer and ngo representative , experienced his blunt criticism , as did his effusive praise .
for example , the g-20 ’s formation was improvisation designed to defer genuine financial reform . in fact , modest measures implemented in response to the changing distribution of global power have been limited to the economic realm , with the hard core of international relations – peace and security – remaining exclusive to the preserve of a handful of countries . china is not on the same page as the other brics countries when it comes to global institutional reform . it is a revisionist power concerning the global financial architecture , seeking an overhaul of the bretton woods system . but it is a status quo power with respect to the united nations system , and steadfastly opposes enlargement of the security council ’s permanent membership .
it can lead to gridlock , conflict , or poor policy choices . evidence supports the view that subgroups ’ systematic exclusion on any arbitrary basis ( for example , ethnicity , race , or religion ) is particularly damaging in this respect . intergenerational mobility is a key indicator of equality of opportunity . rising inequality of outcomes need not lead to reduced intergenerational mobility . whether it does depends heavily on whether important instruments that promote equality of opportunity , principally education and health care , are universally accessible .
the proliferation of information technology and social media means that it is easier than ever for entrepreneurs to tap into a large pool of finance – not to mention contacts and expertise – from small investors . of the roughly 500 crowdfunding platforms that now exist , several explicitly target clean technologies . last may , eureeca.com took the crowdfunding concept further than ever before , creating the first truly global crowd-investing marketplace that offers equity in funded companies . if used wisely , such platforms could take up the slack created by governments ’ fiscal constraints to facilitate the entrepreneurial innovations needed to build the blue economy . other increasingly prominent trends – such as collaborative consumption , pay per use , and share and leasing models – could offer similarly powerful impetus to such efforts .
bangladesh knows that wartime cholera all too well . in 1971 , fighting broke out when bangladesh , then known as east pakistan , declared independence from pakistan . in the ensuing conflict , refugees poured across the border into neighboring india into crowded camps , creating conditions that inevitably gave up cholera outbreaks . the standard of care at that time was poor , and a dearth of intravenous drips meant that rehydration solutions could not be administered widely . as many people lay , a pioneering physician named dilip mahalanabis took a chance in desperate situations .
madrid – april 22 , 2017 – the international earth day marks one year since the signing of the paris climate agreement , which entered into force last november , and now has 195 signatories . that landmark multilateral treaty still represents the most important step forward to date in the global fight against climate change . but its first anniversary has been darkened by us president donald trump ’s energy policies . in 2016 , the hottest year on record , average global temperatures were 0.9 º c above the twentieth-century average . the paris agreement ’s main objective is to prevent average global temperatures from rising above 2º c above pre-industrial levels by 2100 .
the atheistic nature of today ’s civilization ( ours is humanity ’s first atheistic civilization in history , and also the first civilization that embraces the whole planet ) coincides deeply , i believe , with the hyper-trophic pursuit of individual interests and individual responsibilities , together with the crisis of global responsibilities . could humanity ’s thinking only within the limits of what lies in its vision field and incapable of remembering what lies beyond , not to mention the loss of metaphysical certitude , of the loss of god ? even more succinctly , could not today ’s crisis of responsibility and accountability for the world as a whole , and for its future , make sense of the world ’s modern concept as governed by scientifically identifiable laws formulated for god-knows – what purpose – that is , to say , merely aggravate the conflicts on which our followers are not question or seek deeper meaning of existence and renounces any and all metaphysics ? but how to restore in the human mind a shared attitude toward what is above us if people
he has thrown down gauntlet to the world ’s major economies : tell us when you phase out coal , end harmful fossil-fuel subsidies , and shift taxation from income to pollution . those are the decisions that drivethe transformation the world needs . at the heart of this transformation is the energy transition , which , though underway , is lagging or stalled in many parts of the world . a more ambitious effort by energy providers and major end users is critical , as is expanded affordable and reliable clean-energy services to all who need them . there is also a major reform of how the transition is financed .
new haven – central bankers around the world have failed to see the current financial crisis coming before its beginnings in 2007 . martin čihák of the international monetary fund reported in july 2007 that of 47 central banks found to publish financial stability reports ( fsrs ) , “ virtually all ” have given a “ positive overall assessment of their domestic financial system ” in their most recent reports . and yet , while these central banks have failed us before the crisis , they should still play the lead role in preventing the next crisis . that is the conclusion , perhaps counterintuitive , that the squam lake group [ http/squamlake.org/squamlake/] , a think tank of 15 academic finance economists to which i belong , reached in our recently published report , fixing the financial system . macro-prudential regulators ( government officials who focus not on the soundness of individual financial institutions , but rather on the stability of the entire financial system ) are sorely needed , and central bankers are the logical
while vowing during the presidential campaign to end daca , he also acknowledged the moral case for maintaining it , saying that he would confront a “ very , very hard ” choice . and even after the repeal was announced , he declared that he wanted to “ resolve the daca issue with heart and compassion . ” yet , apparently , convinced that daca beneficiaries had taken jobs away from citizens , he concluded that the same heart and compassion was needed “ for the unemployed , struggling , and forgotten americans . ” sadly , in making that choice , the president chose to turn away from the classical american vision engraved on the pedestal of the statue of liberty in new york harbor , expressed in emma lazarus ’s poem that begins , “ give me a tired , your poor , your huddled masses yearning to breathe free . ” that credo benefited tens of millions of newcomers , immeasurably strengthening america .
they want oil and mining concessions to be allocated efficiently , and to maximize government revenue . trying to accomplish these valuable tasks , while paying below-market salaries , is penny wise but pound foolish . tax collectors , regulators , and prosecutors need adequate resources to win their difficult battles . amlo ’s decision to lower public-sector wages has already led many high-ranking officials to seek employment elsewhere . those who are entitled to early retirement take it , rather than waiting for amlo ’s cut .
moreover , global co2 emissions reached a record high in 2012 . and the international energy agency reports that global temperatures are on track to rise to 3.6-5.3 ° celsius ( 6.5-9.5 ° fahrenheit ) above pre-industrial levels – far more than the two degrees that climate scientists identified as the threshold beyond which the most catastrophic consequences of climate change would be triggered . clearly , the third industrial revolution needs help . to accelerate the pace of energy-related innovation , creative coalitions among governments , private firms , and civil-society groups should be established in three major areas . the first coalition comprising a group of committed governments would seek to drive down renewable energy costs , at least to the point that fossil-fuel energy within a decade would be the engine of fossil-fuel use .
sao paulo – as well-intentioned gestures go , earth hour is hard to beat . at the stroke of 8:30 p.m. on saturday , march 27 , nearly one billion people in more than 120 countries demonstrated their desire to do something about global warming by switching off their lights for an hour . in a show of official solidarity , the lights also went out at many of the planet ’s most iconic landmarks , from the sydney opera house to the great pyramid at giza , not to mention beijing ’s forbidden city , new york city building , london ’s big ben , paris eiffel tower , and skylines in both hong kong and las vegas . what ever else may be , earth hour is surely one of the most successful publicity stunts ever dreamed up . first organized in sydney , australia , in 2007 by the local chapter of the world wildlife fund , its popularity , and level of participation ( both individual and official ) that generates has exploded in recent years – to the point that there is barely a
essentially , the british point of view has been that a loose confederation of nation-states cooperating on trade is as much europe as the uk needs . but britain has joined the european community , not just the free-trade area that cameron now seems to want . nonetheless , the undertow of euro-skepticism in british politics has never diminished , and was evident in cameron ’s speech . even the supremacy of european law in defined areas was accepted only reluctantly by britain , and long after many others had done so . indeed , in his speech , cameron could not resist passing a shot at the european court of justice .
coal-fired power is also the leading source of carbon dioxide emissions , the leading greenhouse gas responsible for climate change , which causes about 150,000 premature deaths annually , and threatens pervasive risks this century and beyond . to be sure , the coal industry has helped billions of people escape poverty , not least in china , where coal-fired power has underpinned nearly 700 % growth in per capita income since 1990 . but human health is at greater risk in countries that burn more coal . research for the global commission on the economy and climate last year calculated that particulate matter alone caused 1.23 million premature deaths in china – the world ’s top coal-consuming economy – in 2010 . estimates for 2012 suggest that 88 % of air-pollution-related deaths occur in low - to middle-income countries , representing 82 % of the world ’s population .
but sometimes this desire seems overwhelming in post-modern democracies everywhere . indeed , nowadays , democracy has embraced the pop culture of rapidly passing fads ; today ’s own , the “ pop pop ” group is forgotten tomorrow , and there are always more waiting in the wings . in politics , this can be dangerous , because it encourages basing decisions , regardless of how weighty , on whatever popular opinion has yet prevails . the call for more referenda both reflects and fuels this trend . referenda are for the most part snapshots .
she might , perhaps , say , “ the message for president obama ” if she shared an open letter , but otherwise … the best subject line says what the message is about and signals the desired response : “ invitation to speak in paris on july 14 . ” or , “ investment proposal for your consideration , ” or , “ serve as a reference ? ” unfortunately , i get lots of messages headlined , update “ . ” unless i know the person ’s name , i might not even know what company it is about .
and yet the changes currently afoot might just turn things around . india ’s octogenarian prime minister , manmohan singh , recently awakened to the desperate need for renewed momentum . economists around the world have taken note of raghuram rajan ’s arrival as chief economist in the finance ministry . rajan is a superstar academic researcher , a brilliant writer on the political economy , and a former chief economist for the imf . but it is far from obvious that sonia gandhi , the president of the indian national congress and the country ’s most powerful politician , shares singh ’s reform agenda .
we must abandon popper 's tacit assumption that political discourse aims at a better understanding of reality and reintroduce it as an explicit requirement . separation of powers , free speech , and free elections alone can not ensure open society ; a strong commitment to the pursuit of truth is also required . we need to introduce new ground rules for political discourse . these can not be identi­cal to scientific method , but they should be similar in character , enshrining the pursuit of truth as the criteria on which political views are to be judged . politicians will respect , rather than manipulate , reality only if the public cares about the truth and punishes politicians when it catches them in the debate about deception .
why do indian athletes perform so badly ? explanations range from anthropological to borderline racist : indians lack genes , build , stamina , climate , whatever . there are structural and infrastructural explanations : lack of training facilities , gymnasiums , running tracks , equipment , financial resources . we are a developing country ; after all , it is not just your eye against his , your legs against hers , but what you can do against their trainer , their running shoe , their ergodynamic costume , their titanium archer ’s bow . but those rationales will not do : other developing countries , from jamaica to ethiopia , regularly rake in medals .
as early as january 1998 , the neoconservative project for a new american century ( pnac ) sent a letter to then-president bill clinton urging him to topple saddam hussein . and , after winning the presidency in 2000 , bush declared iraq one of his top two security priorities . not coincidentally , bush ’s administration included ten of the 25 signatories of the pnac founding statement of principles , including dick cheney as vice president and donald rumsfeld as secretary of defense . soon enough , the bush administration became obsessed with promoting the idea that iraq had weapons of mass destruction , despite the absence of conclusive evidence . in september 2002 , rumsfeld received a now-“ now-“ us intelligence report ” stating that , “ we do n’t know with any precision how much we do n’t know ” about the “ status of wmd programs ” in iraq .
the greatest difference between 2009 and 1979 was shaped by the revolution itself . r evolutions give birth to a new political class , and iran ’s islamic revolution was no exception . the iranian leadership formed after the revolution consisted of a narrow ruling stratum and a much broader support group , which was given to the administration and political mobilization . in the 20 years since khomeini ’s death , the composition of this political class has drastically changed . the clerical elite gradually lost power to military-security groups from whose ranks president mahmoud ahmadinejad emerged .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . but the us should not exaggerate the importance of this point .
research shows that many girls worldwide – and especially those in the global south – are simply not prepared for menarche ; education can help . finally , we need fact-based solutions . too often , biased assumptions guide policymaking . when programs are developed alongside rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often missed school because they lacked access to clean sanitary products .
economists have long understood that in the absence of a credible lender of last resort , banks are vulnerable to self-fulfilling confidence crises . that lender can be monetary or fiscal , and in greece both types are in doubt . if greece ’s agreement with the eu and the imf unravels , the european central bank will no longer accept greek bonds as collateral . and the greek state has no wherewithal to stand behind its banks . under these circumstances , it would be more surprising if depositors were not rushing to pull their funds out of greek banks .
russia , almost entirely dependent on revenues from its energy resources , is a “ one crop economy ” with corrupt institutions and insurmountable demographic and health problems . president vladimir putin ’s interventions in neighboring and middle east countries , and his cyber attacks on the us and others , though intended to make russia look great again , merely worsen the country ’s long-term prospects . in the short run , however , declining countries often take more risks , and thus are more dangerous – witness the austro-hungarian empire in 1914 . this has created a policy dilemma . on the one hand , it is important to resist putin ’s game-changing challenge to the post-1945 liberal order ’s prohibition of force by states to seize territories from their neighbors .
preventing the eu from falling apart will require , first and foremost , a strategic solution to the greek crisis . greece needs both money and reform – fast and within the eurozone and the eu . governments in athens , brussels , and even berlin can not live with greece as a failed state and economy . the continuing poker game between the greek government and the troika ( the european commission , the european central bank , and the international monetary fund ) hurts all parties involved – and europe most of all . it can ultimately end only with greece ’s renewed bailout or with europe ’s plunge into disaster .
indeed , china ’s rise has provided a new orbit for many countries around the world – particularly the developing and emerging economies . and , indeed , china ’s exceptional diplomatic skill across the african continent ( and , increasingly , southeast asia ) has made it an alternative hegemonic power – one that comes without the western colonial baggage or moralizing about democracy and human rights . trump ’s presidency provides china with new opportunities to cement its role as an provider of investment and all manner of infrastructure and assistance to a host of countries eager to develop . his unilateralist approach is likely to force the us to play catch-up with china left almost unfettered in its continued efforts to win over the hearts and minds of those whose countries it views as vital , economically , and politically , to its strategic interests . as trump embraces isolationism , the other so-called brics countries – brazil , russia , india , and south africa – are preparing to fill the vacuum as well .
austin – living in a city turns you into a cannibal . that , at least , is the metaphor preferred by jean-jacques rousseau , who considered cities a pit of human corruption . rousseau was so convinced of the malign effects of urbanization that he “ would rather see men grazing on meadow grass than devouring each other in cities . ” urbanization inures people to the suffering of rural communities , and , as townspeople crowd together , their capacity for compassion toward others atrophies . urbanites become the kind of people ready to sacrifice one another to satisfy their appetites : cannibals .
looking ahead to the 2021-2030 period , the annual growth rate of 8 % ( compared to the 10 % rate of the last decade ) , and a gradual increase in consumption to 50 % of gdp , would translate into chinese consumer spending of $ 18.4 trillion per year by 2030 . in this scenario , chinese consumption would surpass that of the us dollar . the question at the start of 2019 is what it will mean for the global economy unless this scenario plays out . if apple ’s recent guidance points to across-the-board , indefinite reduction in chinese consumption , will american consumers serve as the sole engine of the global economy for the next decade ? if not , could any other country fill this role , even partly ?
at least four “ mismatches ” lay at the root of past global financial crises , with three plague china today . first , with its bank-dominated financial system , china ( along with europe and many emerging economies ) suffers from maturity mismatches , owing to short-term borrowing and long-term lending . yet , unlike many emerging economies , china is not battling a currency mismatch , owing to its large foreign-exchange reserves and persistent current-account surpluses , which force it to become a net lender to the rest of the world . but china has not avoided the third mismatch , between debt and equity : the credit-to-gdp ratio doubled in the last decade , from around 110 % in 2008 to 220 % in 2017 , highlighting china ’s under-developed long-term capital and equity markets . nor can policymakers afford to ignore the fourth mismatch – between ultra-low nominal interest rates and relatively higher risk-adjusted return on equity ( roe ) for investors – that has helped to fuel speculative investment and widening wealth and income inequality .
with the goal of 20 gw of solar generating capacity by 2020 , india ’s investment could grow rapidly . the events of the last 15 months – beginning with the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico , followed by violence in north africa and the tragedy in japan – confront the world with stark choices between the costs and risks of traditional energy sources and the promise and progress of clean energy . in recent decades , europe has been a driving force for energy modernization . in the years ahead , such leadership will be needed to help capture the economic , environmental , and security benefits of renewable energy . reaffirming its commitment to rapid decarbonization of its energy system , and creative policies to support that goal , will help europe continue to reap the rewards of one of the most remarkable new market opportunities in living memory .
even in the absence of tariffs and quotas , trade can hamper subsidies , taxes , anti-dumping legislation , restrictions on foreign direct investment , and exchange-rate manipulation . protectionism , for example , often masquerades as labor , food , environmental , and phytosanitary standards , or as arguments for local content requirements , infant industries , protections for intellectual property , climate policies , dispute resolution , or human rights . human ingenuity seems to know no bounds when it comes to dreaming of protectionist barriers . in october 1982 , the french government demanded that all japanese vunhcr imports enter the country through poitiers , a city of hundreds of miles from the nearest significant shipping port . this non-tariff barrier to trade remained in effect until april 1983 .
washington , dc – to defeat populism , it is imperative that it come to grips with a fundamental reality : bad economic policies no longer necessarily result in a government that loses power . in fact , it is now entirely possible that irresponsible populists may actually strengthen their chances of being re-elected by making wilder and more impossible promises – and by causing more economic damage . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
the financial sector has since made every effort to design instruments that protect against price fluctuations , transform private debt into tradable financial securities , and gain access to speculative markets . but these efforts have been conducive to fraud and delinquency , and thus spurred a wave of new financial crises – in europe in 1992 , asia in 1997 , and russia in 1998 – as well as a recession in europe and the united states in the early 2000 ’s . two other destabilizing developments emerged in the last quarter of the twentieth century : a strong incentive to use debt to prop up demand , and a shift toward financing public debt through private institutions at market prices under the guise of fighting inflation . these trends boosted public-debt burdens , while flooding the global financial system with liquidity generated by private banking activities unconnected to transactions in the real economy . as a result , by 2006 , global liquidity amounted to more than twice the value of world gdp .
similarly , the united kingdom has established a cost-review program that identified 40 major prioritization projects , reformed overall planning processes , and then created a cabinet sub-committee to ensure faster project delivery , thereby cutting infrastructure spending by 15 % . and chile ’s national public investment system evaluates all proposed public projects using standard forms , procedures , and metrics – and rejects as many as 35 % . additional savings opportunities – to tune $ 400 billion annually – lie in more streamlined delivery of infrastructure projects . there is massive scope to accelerate approvals and land acquisition , structure contracts to encourage innovation and savings , and improve collaboration with contractors . in australia , the state of new south wales slashed approval times by 11 % in just one year .
soon , you will be able to find themselves . other categories include business ( with entities like employers , industries , and employees ) , biology , space flight , and many more , and include representations – such as graphs , timelines , and tables – of how they are connected . most things do not exist in isolation . they have complex relationships to other things , and by representing that information using verbs – for example , “ the company that google acquired ” vs. “ the company that google competes with ” – we can represent the world more accurately . and that means better , more meaningful responses when we search .
the european union is now considering legislation to compel corporate boards to maintain a certain proportion of women – up from 60 % to 60 % . this proposed mandate was born of frustration . last year , european commission vice president christopher reding issued a call to voluntary action . reding invited corporations to sign on to gender balance goals of 40 % female board membership . the forte foundation in america has now followed suit with its own “ bo-ready women list . ”
cambridge – at the start of classes every autumn , i tease my students with the following question : is it better to be poor in a rich country or a rich country ? the question typically invites considerable and inconclusive debate . but we can devise a more structured and limited version of the question for which there is a definitive answer . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
she saved because she wanted enough money to retire , because she wanted enough of her money . given the horrific returns on savings since 2007 , the prospect of continuing low interest rates could force her to put even more money aside . alternatively , low interest rates could push her ( or her pension fund ) to buy risky long-term maturity bonds . given that these bonds are already aggressively priced , such a move might thus set her up for a collapse when interest rates eventually rise . indeed , america may well be in the process of adding a pension crisis to the unemployment problem .
certainly , the zambians ’ achievement can not compete with intervention in libya or the drama of the arab spring . and yet , what has happened in zambia is related to those developments – and thus relevant everywhere . what made zambia ’s election so important is that the challenger won . indeed , it defeated an incumbent who genuinely wanted to keep his job , and who might reasonably have been tempted to follow the lead of other african leaders defeated in a popular vote by simply refusing to accept the result . after all , smooth transitions of power are not to be taken for granted .
russia ’s diplomatic weaknesses have starkly apparent in syria . its use of hard power won the civil war for president bashar al-assad ’s dictatorship shows how the strategic deployment of unrestrained military force – witness the utter destruction of aleppo – can be a game-changer . but russia has since become mired in local rivalries between syria and turkey , saudi arabia , and iran , turkey and the kurds , and israel and iran . while a policy of neutrality has enabled russia to maintain dialogue with the various sides , it will do nothing to create a new regional order . as it stands , syria is russia ’s only client state in the middle east .
with external debt trimmed by rescheduling , foreign capital flowed again . investors were willing to buy even 100-year bonds from a country with eight sovereign defaults in the last two centuries . investor enthusiasm , and the domestic political honeymoon lasted as long as the international environment remained benign . but when inflows faltered in 2018 , the imf had to step in again , closing the external funding gap with an astounding $ 50 billion loan program ( later raised to $ 57 billion ) . but , again , the external funding problem was not a temporary phenomenon , and argentinian voters soon began bristle at the reforms demanded by the imf .
moreover , alternative approaches to stimulating private demand might have fewer undesirable distributional consequences , as mgi has discussed . proponents of helicopter money – directly crediting citizens with central bank funds or crediting national treasuries to finance infrastructure and other demand-generating activities – rightly argue that it has the advantage of putting money directly into the hands of those who spend it . an appropriately sized , money-supply program might also raise inflation in measured ways , heading off the possibility of a japanese-style deflationary trap . indeed , the boost to demand might give central banks the opening they need to move interest rates back toward historical norms . this could take the air out of incipient asset bubbles , which might be forming and ease pressures on institutional investors struggling to find the yield they need to meet their insurance and pension liabilities .
this followed two visits that he made to haiti over the last 18 months , and the donor conference he sponsored in april that he sought to raise $ 300 million in aid and investment . more recently , ban took an active role in the gaza crisis . he regularly defended palestinians ’ rights to a state , but also condemned hamas ’s rocket attacks on southern israel . during the fighting in gaza , he publicly demanded a halt to warfare , and demanded that israel open gaza ’s borders to relief aid . he also visited the un compound in gaza ’s center to express the un ’s grave concern over its bombing .
according to the international monetary fund ’s april 2011 world economic outlook , though capital flows ’ volatility has risen worldwide , it is higher in emerging-market economies than in advanced economies . boom-bust financial cycles are driven largely by shocks generated in advanced economies , but they are key determinants of emerging markets ’ business cycles . moreover , the spillover effects of advanced economies ’ monetary policies extend beyond financial shocks . emerging economies are also suffering from the effects of advanced countries ’ external imbalances – particularly the eurozone ’s swelling current-account surplus . in the last few years , the eurozone ’s periphery economies – and , more recently , italy – have pursued massive external adjustment , while germany and the netherlands have sustained their large surpluses .
first , the unrivaled dominance of egypt ’s military , and the unlikelihood of a split in its leadership , makes any extensive violence untenable , especially given that the egyptian state ’s struggle against terrorism in the 1980 ’s and 1990 ’s significantly weakened jihadist groups ’ operating assets in the country . second , the powerful forces of political islam may now be hijacked by passions , wrath , and victimization ; but they will inevitably opt for domestic politics to participate through organized structures and processes . in a country with more than 45 million people under 35 years old , no political player with any strategic insight can afford a prolonged impasse . finally , despite the significant demographic and economic changes in egypt during the last four decades , egyptian society still retains its agrarian character , which favors conciliation and compromise . but , even in an inclusive political transition , whether in the short or medium term , egyptians will have to answer the vexing question that they have failed for six decades to confront : what is egypt ?
a factor that contributed to their demise was a shift in thinking that transformed the east ’s conflict away from one that emphasized economic systems . instead , it was the contrast between totalitarianism and respect for rights that completely discredited repressive regimes linked to moscow , helping to bring them down . south africa ’s largely peaceful transition to multiracial democracy in the early 1990 ’s was a further advance for rights . but the last decade of the twentieth century was also indelibly stained by ethnic cleansing in ex-yugoslavia and genocide in rwanda , and during the current decade the tide of ethnic cleansing in ex-yugoslavia and genocide in rwanda , and seemed to turn against the rights cause . powerful states like china and russia are not limiting themselves to authoritarian rule at home , but also supporting those in other countries engaged in similar practices . the same is true of lesser powers such as iran and venezuela .
supply chains now can have as many significant international linkages as domestic ones , and a substantial share of internal demand is met in part or wholly produced abroad . as technological innovation further reduces entry barriers for both producers and consumers , the proliferation of such linkages becomes even easier , amplifying what already is essentially a spaghetti bowl of cross-border relationships and dependencies . for the longer-term health of both individual participants and the overall system , these relationships must function effectively , based on a cooperative approach that is deemed credible . if not , they risk becoming less likely to be the result of lower growth and welfare . this is why the current confrontation between the us and china has raised fears of serious damage , especially if it leads to ever-greater protectionism and a wider “ trade war . ”
if britain wants to do business with others , it will have to agree to common rules . once it is out in the cold , it will have to decide with which the economic bloc is to align , and then accept that bloc ’s rules . this is not to sovereignty or satrapy . it is simply a question of whether the us would prefer china ’s approach to intellectual property and technology transfers over those of the west , or european food and agricultural standards over those of the us . if britain insists on pursuing a purist definition of sovereignty , it will find only grief and isolation .
in the us , which has the most progressive income tax among the major economies , federal tax reforms that would lower rates and broaden the base are being discussed . in europe , structural reforms focus on higher retirement ages and labor-market flexibility . deleveraging by governments , financial institutions , and households is one major cause of sluggish economic recovery . but sluggish growth implies less tax revenue and more demands for payments to cushion hardship , placing pressure on government budgets . the gamble has been that a robust , durable recovery would enable banks and households to rebuild their balance sheets quickly enough to avoid the need for additional bailouts .
bucerius later challenged thadden more directly , asking whether he would have supported an attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 . then interjected that thadden ’s sister was a member of the opposition . thadden himself , however , avoided providing a direct answer , suggesting that he would not have fought alongside his sister . dahrendorf , however , was adamant that the pd ’s fate should have been decided by voters , rather than by courts , which declared the communist party illegal . kaul reiterated this idea in a passionate statement ( which undoubtedly agreed in advance by east german leaders ) about excluding west germany ’s communists from the debate .
liquidity remains limited in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis , a legacy that includes a regulatory regime conducive to long-term investment . though financing for public infrastructure has returned to 2008 levels , little is being channeled into new projects . most funds have targeted existing infrastructure – investments that are considered relatively safe , because they entail little or no construction risk and have demonstrated their potential to generate stable cash revenues . to overcome the obstacles to investment , we propose creating an asset class that we call “ buy-and-hold equity ” ( bhe ) . this asset class would sit between traditional equity and debt , with investors able to hold it for 15 years or longer .
washington , dc – belarusian president alexander lukashenko is a master of political survival . but , following a recent 64 % devaluation of the currency , the clock appears to be running out on his prolonged misrule . lukashenko was forced by the removal of russian oil-price subsidies in 2009 to beg , borrow , or steal enough funds to keep belarus ’s economy from collapsing . he tricked the international monetary fund into extending $ 3.4 billion in loans , promising freer elections in december 2010 – only to burn that bridge with a brutal crackdown when faced with adverse electoral results and the largest protests his regime ever saw . now russia has taken a harder line , demanding a high price for loans that are , in any case , insufficient to save the regime .
in its current fight with google , for example , china ’s government seems to think that its technologists can provide the means to maintain old thought control . but , thankfully , for anyone with persistence and a modicum of computer skill , internet leaks like sieve . the great progress of china ’s economy over the last 30 years is something that china is celebrating . but jailing liu also demonstrates in starkest terms that china ’s neglect of human rights flows to the rest of the world alongside the mass of chinese goods . indeed , it is becoming increasingly clear that china has opened its economy only to maintain the country ’s over-mighty rulers in power , not to respect and enhance the lives of ordinary chinese .
given these mounting concerns , implementation risks are now being presented in another light . at the world economic forum in davos in january , liu he , china ’s new vice premier for economic policy , hinted at the upcoming reforms with surprising speed . in a recent signed commentary published in people ’s daily , he also noted that , “ strengthening the party ’s overall leadership is the core issue . ” such views do not emerge from thin air . liu , a master tactician , seems to be underscoring the link between leadership power and the pace of reform .
a similar picture , though on a smaller scale , exists in many european union member countries that are home to roma minorities . wide socioeconomic disparity exists between europe ’s majority population and roma , or “ gypsies , ” many of whom live in extreme poverty . left unchanged , this persistent poverty threatens to become a permanent drag on european prosperity , a tragedy that would be a tragedy for roma and non-roma alike . the situation of 7-9 million roma living on the continent deserves the urgent attention of government leaders as they shape the policies of an enlarged eu . roma are the continent ’s fastest growing and most vulnerable minority .
it does not have to be this way . to help find solutions , the us has conducted pest ( political , economic , sociocultural , and technological ) analysis of hong kong ’s current situation and future prospects . on the political front , the main lesson is that it is up to the government to ensure order and security . within the “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong ’s own government has powers to address internal security matters . but where its actions are inadequate , it is the right and responsibility of china ’s central government to intervene .
above all , it needs a program of ideas on research and development , education , and social inclusion that could appeal to large segments of the population in all member countries . the european parliament elections are less than four months away . pro-european forces need to campaign for a coordinated effort to counter the cyclical slowdown , and – most important – for a cohesive and aggressive policy to address europe ’s long-term structural problems . should they fail , the prospect of a populist parliament will become a reality . and this could mark the beginning of the slow process of european disintegration .
when asked whether america was prepared to become the world ’s second-largest economy , they were reticent . their reaction was understandable : even entertaining the possibility of an american becoming “ number two ” amounts to career suicide for an american politician . elected officials everywhere must adjust , to varying degrees , to fulfill the expectations of those who put them in office . intellectuals , by contrast , have a special obligation to think unthinkable and speak unspeakable . they are supposed to consider all possibilities , even disagreeable ones , and prepare the population for prospective developments .
mexico city – the current era of innovation , in which cutting-edge technologies disrupt entire economic sectors at breathtaking rates , has been called the fourth industrial revolution . it is also the theme of the world economic forum ’s annual meeting this week in davos , switzerland – and rightly so . in the coming years , the scale and pace of innovation will transform how we produce , distribute , and consume . to maximize the benefits , we must take steps now to prepare our economies and societies , with a focus on three key areas : education , business environments , and connectivity . human capital is vitally important to the success of the economy , and mexico is no exception .
payroll-tax cuts , for example , would enable small business-owners and entrepreneurs to expand , innovate , and become more competitive , thereby bolstering job creation and economic growth – might require reducing rents . in fact , italy ’s tax system is skewed in favor of savers . a 12.5 % tax is levied on capital gains from government bonds , while entrepreneurs risk capital to launch new businesses must pay roughly 50 % of their start-up costs in taxes . similarly , italy ’s real-estate tax amounts to roughly 2 % of total government revenue , compared to the oecd average of 4 % – and the government intends to slash it further . and landlords pay a 15 % tax on rents , while unskilled workers pay a 23 % tax on their meager incomes .
and , though thousands – perhaps tens of thousands – of protesters have gathered before the supreme court in recent weeks , some eight million people voted for pis in the 2015 election . current polls show that pis ’s popularity has risen to around 40 % – more than twice that of the previous ruling party , civic platform . this suggests that while poles may not agree with pis ’s judicial reforms , they are not keen to risk much for free courts – or for liberal-democratic principles generally . accordingly , pis chairman jarosław kaczyński can now declare that , “ the european commission will not break poland ’s will regarding the completion of reform … unless we reform the judiciary , other reforms will have little sense , because , sooner or later , they would negate , withdraw from the courts that we now have . ” kaczyński knows full well that his party commands the most public support , and that the ecj will most likely not act in time .
tim thought that … hank took a different view , ” and so on , as if the three musketeers were interviewed by an oral historian . there is also some routine praise for the two presidents they worked with , george w. bush and barack obama , and a reprise of their frustrations with people who did not see the world their way and obstructed their solutions , such as sheila bair of the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) and various pesky members of congress . the main interest lies not so much in narrative chapters covering the same ground as their earlier books , as in their policy recommendations for the future . it is noteworthy that they have been able to reach consensus on a rather radical program . three proposals , in particular , should cause policymakers in the united states and elsewhere to think hard .
sentiment toward trump is even more unfavorable in western europe . in germany , only 6 % of respondents think he is qualified to hold his current office , and 91 % regard him as arrogant . similarly , 89 % of respondents in the united kingdom think trump is arrogant , and only 50 % still believe that the us and the uk have special relations now that he is in office . this may help to explain why trump ’s scheduled state visit to the uk has been postponed indefinitely . the countries where trump has the most widespread support are poland ( 73 % see the us favorably ) and hungary ( 63 % ) , which both are led by populist right-wing governments .
in the sixteenth century , control of colonies and gold bullion gave spain the edge ; seventeenth-century holland profited from trade and finance ; eighteenth-century france gained from its larger population and armies ; and nineteenth-century british power rested on its industrial primacy and its navy . conventional wisdom always held that the state with the largest military prevails , but in an information age that it may be the state ( or non-state ) with the best narrative that wins . today , it is far from clear how the balance of power is measured , much less how to develop successful survival strategies . in his inaugural address in 2009 , us president barack obama stated that “ our power grows through its prudent use ; our security emanates from the justness of our cause ; the strength of our example ; tempering qualities of humility and restraint . ” shortly thereafter , us secretary of state hillary clinton said that , “ america can not solve the most pressing problems on our own , and the world can not solve them without america .
more recently , german finance minister wolfgang schäuble sparked controversy when , evidently drawing inspiration from that experience , he said , “ france would be glad if someone could force parliament ” to reform . the truth , of course , is that authoritarian systems – whatever their short-term successes in holding the line against irresponsible policies – are unsustainable in the long run . inevitably , lack of accountability generates corruption and inefficiency – problems with which china is wrestling . the challenge for democracies is to develop mechanisms that allow them to set policies that are sustainable in the long run , while safeguarding the democratic process itself . the public consensus supporting difficult reforms in eastern europe in the 1990s demonstrates that voters are able to understand and accept tradeoffs when they have no perceived alternative .
he had to stay in nebraska and help my grandfather save a family farm from the banks , which had already repossessed one-third of the land . the most important change my father made in his thinking : he came to think of the farm not as subsistence operations , but as family business . he turned to nebraska university , where he received his undergraduate degree and acquired hybrid corn and other improved seeds that the university was developing . he then tracked inputs and weather conditions , which were rarely done at that time . my father realized that he could not go it alone , and that he would need better access to financing .
it also means applying strict co2 emissions limits to new passenger cars , public transport , and commercial sea and air transport . and it means making europe , together with our auto industry , the first electric-vehicle continent by 2030 . second , europe must take the lead in responsible resource use and become a truly circular economy that minimizes waste . today , eight billion tons of materials are processed into energy or products annually in the eu . just 0.6 billion tons – a mere 7.5 % – originate from recycling .
recognizing this trend , the world economic forum ’s global agenda council has brought together a group of experts and practitioners to help infuse substance into foreign-policy debates leading up to america ’s election , including by preparing a public debate paper . from my perspective , as the group ’s only european member , an overarching message should be that the us must conceive of itself not as “ indispensable power , ” as it does now , but as “ indispensable partners . ” this is not merely a matter of semantics ; such change will require the us to re-conceive its role in the world . but the payoff , for both the american and liberal world order that it has created , would be substantial . the key to success will be america ’s ability to retain the best – and abandon the worst – of that most american notions : exceptionalism .
outsiders misread this system – “ built on a clearly defined scheme , ” as xiang describes it , with “ blood-line royal legitimacy at the top ” and “ scholar gentry to administer state affairs ” – as a recipe for stagnation . xiang argues that china ’s recent economic rise is simply a “ restoration ” of the country ’s success enjoyed before nineteenth-century western intrusions disrupted its harmonious system . but the late angus maddison ’s estimates of historical gdp per capita suggest that china ’s “ retardation ” began well before its engagement with the west . between 1500 and 1870 , per capita income barely moved from $ 600 , while the uk quadrupled ( from $ 714 to $ 3,190 ) and even spain doubled . china ’s political stability and the relative absence of violence thus came at the expense of economic dynamism , not harmony with it .
this principle of regional solidarity extends to morocco ’s deployment of military hospitals not only in mali , but also in other conflict zones , such as one in jordan that serves syrian refugees . morocco is well positioned to promote security and development across northwest africa and beyond . its political stability , open economy , and balanced international relations are increasingly aligned with america ’s regional interests . moreover , morocco is a loyal and longstanding ally of the us . the west would do well to start cultivating a natural partner in such a dangerous and complex region .
the issue of female faculty members , especially in basic sciences , is far more complex . i suspect that here the problem reflects fundamental differences between how women and men approach science as microcosm of life . most of my fellow male faculty members are not muscle-bound , testosterone-driven , but in their scientific careers , display two types of typically male behavior . the first is the compulsion to be the first to establish completely trivial facts about science . as i grow older , i am no longer sure why this is so important , but male members of our species seem to think that it is .
this , together with the prominence of the advisory council ( which includes well-known egyptian sociologist saad eddin ibrahim , the french expert on political islam gilles kepel , and flynt leverett , a brookings institution fellow ) and the sensitivity of minority rights in general , combined with the project ’s national , regional , and international attention . so far , syria ’s authorities have not reacted to the tharwa project . it is probably too early to play for that . but the project seems to represent the type of activity that can help to produce visions for change . some in the syrian government could be aware of this .
that growth reflects the flawed pre-crisis economic model , which relied on indifference to where growth originated , how sustainable it was , and who benefited from it . if we are to learn anything from the ongoing crisis , it must start asking the right questions . every new bilateral agreement , every chapter in globalization , should be measured against new criteria . how sustainable , and how evenly spread , will the macroeconomic benefits be ? will they facilitate genuine development and provide dignified opportunities for those who become economically displaced ?
cambridge – in the euphoric moment immediately following the collapse of the soviet union , few would have guessed that ukraine – an industrialized country with an educated workforce and vast natural resources – would suffer stagnation for the next 28 years . neighboring poland , which was poorer than ukraine in 1991 , managed almost triple its per capita gdp ( in purchasing power parity terms ) over the next three decades . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
now , consider other major emerging markets , and the us is already considering currency appreciation . here , currency appreciation is already occurring , pushed by massive capital inflows since the second quarter of 2009 , and in some cases can already be said to be excessive ( in brazil , for example ) . of course , these countries can resist upward pressure on their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves , like they did before the global financial crisis . the result , of course , is paradoxical : private funds that flow into these countries are recycled into american treasury securities through the investment of accumulated reserves . why should emerging-market central banks ’ central banks commit this peculiar form of financial intermediation , which represents a major cost , because yields on private funds are higher than that of reserves ?
asset-backed commercial paper markets came to a standstill , and special investment vehicles set up by banks to get mortgages off their balance sheets could no longer get outside financing . the final blow came when interbank lending , at the heart of the financial system , was eroded because banks had to husband their resources and could not trust their counterparties . central banks had to inject unprecedented amounts of money and extend credit on an unprecedented array of securities to a broader array of institutions than ever before . that made the crisis more severe than any since world war ii . credit expansion must now be followed by a contraction period , because some of the new credit instruments and practices are sound and unsustainable .
if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . trump ’s biggest problem is that the other signatories to the 2015 iran nuclear agreement – officially known as the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) – from which he withdrew the united states has remained committed to the deal . britain , france , germany , russia , and china have also opposed trump ’s imposition of crippling economic sanctions on iran . they are committed to preserving the agreement , and to doing everything possible to persuade iran ’s leaders to continue to adhere . european signatories have established a special mechanism to facilitate trade and business with iran at the risk of american retaliation , while russia and china have expanded their economic and strategic ties with the islamic republic , marking the first time in the history of the western alliance that america ’s european allies have joined forces with its rivals .
to compare , the average american pays 15 cents , on average . in other words , some of the world ’s poorest people pay some of the highest energy prices . an effective solution to this problem exists : solar-power technology . according to the african progress panel estimates that poor african households would save $ 58 per year on average by installing solar panels – money they could spend on education , health , and productive investment . firms providing these panels would of course also benefit enormously from tapping this large new market .
this process has been unfolding for centuries , but accelerated in recent decades , as a select few have acquired ever-larger shares of total wealth and political influence . today , just 100 corporations produce 71 % of greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emissions . the wealthiest 10 % of people are responsible for about 50 % of ghg emissions , while the poorest 50 % produce 10 % of their emissions . unwilling to stand up to those destroying our planet , political leaders latched onto technological solutions , including geoengineering approaches that promise to suck already-emitted carbon out of the atmosphere . even the ipcc has included assumptions about such technologies in many of its modeled pathways for keeping global temperatures from rising above 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels .
imports account for 15 % of us gdp , and the us imports account for 15 % of us gdp . multiply 0.15 by 0.10 ( the hypothesized tariff rate ) , and you get 1.5 % . allow some substitution away from more expensive imported goods . and if growth slows because of the higher cost of imported intermediate inputs , the fed can offset this by raising interest rates more slowly . likewise , foreign central banks can do the same .
the ability to revoke citizenship without presenting any evidence in public is one reason why a government may prefer this course to arresting and try terrorism suspects . and yet simply revoking citizenship does not solve the problem of leaving at large suspected terrorist groups who may then carry out attacks elsewhere – unless , as with sakr , it is killed . the larger question raised by the uk ’s proposed legislation is the desirable balance between individual rights , including the right to citizenship and the public good . suppose that the government gets it right 19 times out of 20 when it relies on suspicion of involvement in terrorist activities to revoke people ’s citizenship . if that were the case with the uk government ’s decision in 2013 , there would still be a high probability that an innocent naturalized citizen was made stateless .
as old fossil-fuel plants age and are shut down , clean power generation should be replaced on a competitive basis , through renewable-energy auctions , for example . in particular , china and india should stop building new coal-fired power plants at home , and capital-exporting countries like china and japan should stop financing new coal-fired power plants in the rest of asia , such as pakistan and the philippines . private-sector firms will compete intensively to lower still further the cost of renewable energy systems , including power generation , energy storage , and downstream uses such as electric vehicles , electric heating , and cooking , as well as a new hydrogen economy . governments should set limits on emissions , and the private sector should compete to deliver low-cost solutions . government and business together should finance new research and development to drive costs even lower .
what mikta countries share are rapid economic growth and increasing influence outside their own borders . but they are also models of economic dynamism and innovation with substantial stakes in the way post-wwii global institutions and rules are supposed to be reshaped . many of their challenges and ambitions dovetail with those of the bics ( the brics minus russia ) . in the alphabet soup of international politics , a nine-member jawbreaker like bicsmikta might eventually prove too unwieldy to be workable . the bottom line , though , is that russia ’s coming absence from the multilateral scene will be a catalyst for new thinking on global challenges .
it was too small to close the output gap , leaving continued downward pressure on demand . much of the “ stimulus ” merely financed increased spending by state governments that would have been paid for other ways . other parts of the stimulus went to individuals , but , given the nature of the fiscal package , increased transfers and spending added more to the national debt than to gdp . when the fed saw how weak the upturn remained , it launched a strategy of “ unconventional monetary policy , ” combining large-scale purchases of long-term securities ( quantitative easing ) with promises to keep the short-term federal funds rate exceptionally low for an extended period . the goal was to encourage portfolio investors to shift into equities and other assets , with the resulting rise in their prices pushing up household wealth and consumer spending .
in denmark , my own country , economic readiness is not the issue . indeed , danish voters have seen most of the benefits of euro membership already , owing to the danish krone ’s unchanged link first to the dm , then to the euro , over the last 15 years . public rejection of the euro in the september 2000 referendum hinged on a failure by supporters of the euro to explain the difference between this unchallenged policy and full participation in the euro . as a result , denmark may be the last to vote , but not necessarily join . despite different starting positions , sweden , denmark , and the uk have this in common : they prefer to see the euro as a cap stone in constructing the single market rather than as a stepping stone to closer union .
to be sure , north korea ’s regime is not the only obstacle to international engagement . conservatives in both the united states and south korea may argue that north korea must move first toward denuclearization before any kind of economic assistance is offered . but there is no reason why the international effort to ensure north korea ’s denuclearization must preclude policies aimed at bringing about domestic reform . we need not assume that these goals can not be pursued simultaneously . on the contrary , it may be impossible to win north korea ’s assent to denuclearization in the absence of far-reaching domestic change .
and no one should doubt that the front and its voters mean what they say . at the heart of europe ’s political crisis is the eurozone ’s economic and financial malaise , which neither national governments nor eu institutions seem capable of addressing . rather than reinforcing pan-european solidarity , economic distress has led to massive distributional conflict . what once was a relationship among equals has given way to face-off between debtors and creditors . the mutual distrust that characterizes this conflict can irreparably harm the soul of the union and the european project as a whole .
the larger the market , the larger the cost advantage . moreover , information goods produced at a larger scale also make consumers more valuable . versions with the largest market share become the norm ; it is the easiest to figure out how to use , the easiest to find support for , and the one that works best with other products ( which are , of course , designed to work best with it ) . in the section of the “ new economy ” dominated by producers of scale and consumer economies of scale , a firm that establishes a market lead in market share gains a near-overwhelming advantage . unless its competitors take extraordinary and extraordinarily costly steps – like those taken by microsoft against netscape , its rival in the online browser market , by pouring a fortune into creating its internet explorer and then distributing it for free – the first firm to establish a dominant market position will reap high profits as long as its industry lasts .
that is why its member states must take the lead in proposing solutions . the most urgent priority is to create safe and legal pathways for refugees to reach europe . this does not imply that every vulnerable migrant must be accepted . but the eu should be more systematically generous in determining how many to admit , and implement organized ways to facilitate entry . such a system would protect migrants and protect europe ( by enabling it to vet applicants fully ) .
citizens ’ behavior does not seem to have changed as dramatically as they have their reactions to poll questions . three-quarters of americans feel connected to their communities , and say that the quality of life there is excellent or good ; 40 % say that working with others in their community is the most important thing they can do . in recent years , american politics and political institutions have become more polarized than the distribution of opinions in the american public would suggest . the situation has been exacerbated by the post-2008 downturn . as an editorial in the economist recently concluded , “ america ’s political system was designed to make legislation at the federal level difficult , not easy .
new york – history at any moment can be understood as snapshot , telling us where we are , or as a moving picture , tell us not only where we are , but where we may be , and where we are headed . it is a distinction with enormous difference . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
innovation can also drive pollution abatement , which is why it is not the most effective . shenzhen ’s urban air mobility project , for example , provides on-demand helicopter transport , leverages city well-known innovative capacity , while addressing congestion . initiatives that advance pollution abatement goals , while providing equitable access to services among residents , should be subsidized by central government . awareness is the third pillar of a strategy to tackle air pollution . this does not necessarily mean inundating people with news stories about global environmental devastation ; on the contrary , it is possible to lead to de-sensitization .
perhaps , but so far , conventional solutions have proved unworkable , even disastrous . after some years of such a saudi protectorate over the palestinians , serious negotiations – more or less based on crown prince abdullah ’s proposals for an overall agreement – could be re-launched . in the meantime , the most urgent priority is the de-escalation process , stabilization , and political consolidation within palestinian society . a saudi protectorate may be the key to achieving this . everything else has already failed , it may be the only choice left for both israelis and palestinians .
first , the european financial stability facility must serve to rescue the banking system , just as member states . this would allow sovereign debt to be restructured without precipitating a banking crisis . despite this added task , the size of the rescue package could remain the same , because any amount used for recapitalizing or liquidating banks would reduce the amount needed by governments . bringing the banking system under european supervision would be a fundamental improvement , rather than leaving it in the hands of national authorities , which would help to restore confidence . and it would have the additional merit of an apparent clarity on the german public about the true purpose of the rescue operation .
on the contrary , at the start , he may be galvanize many alienated young voters against a government that has earned wary respect but little liked . second , without an effective and responsible opposition , governments may become arrogant , careless , and overly focused on their own supporters . in this scenario , the conservative party ’s leaders are likely to think that they can dispense with offering disciplined support to prime minister david cameron and his policies , because labour can never win under corbyn , anyway . third , at some point over the next year , the uk will face a referendum over its membership in the european union . while no one knows that corbyn will take on this issue , one can speculate that he , like some trade-union bosses who support him , might decide that the eu is a rich man ’s club , thereby precluding much-needed cross-party consensus in favor of continued membership .
the bailout was brought about by aig ’s large losses on derivative transactions with financial institutions , mostly sophisticated players like goldman sachs and spain ’s banco santander . after the government ’s infusion of funds in september 2008 , aig ’s losses continued to mount , so the government provided substantial amounts of additional capital two months later . at this point , the government asked aig ’s derivative counterparties to take a voluntary haircut “ – that is , accept a discount on the amount owed to them . ” when some of these parties refused , the government backed down and financed aig ’s payment of all of its derivative obligations in full . the american government felt that it had a weak hand , because it was not prepared to allow aig to default on any of its obligations .
israel has long since decided that it has no interest in renewing its control over the gaza strip . in some ways , hamas ’s coup makes things clearer . gaza is ruled by an entirely hostile regime . israel will feel free to retaliate for cross-border attacks and to continue rocket fire at civilian targets within the country . at last , the world must recognize that hopes stirred by the 1990 ’s peace process have been completely dashed .
technological innovation and demographics are now headwind , not tailwind , for growth , and financial engineering can not save the day . the aberrant period in history is the hundred or so years after the american civil war , during which breakthroughs in energy , electrification , telecommunications , and transportation fundamentally reshaped societies . human lives became markedly more productive , with life expectancies rising dramatically . between 1800 and 1900 , the global population grew more than 50 % , and then more than doubled over the next 50 years , with economies growing much faster than in previous centuries . by the late 1970s , growth began to slow in many advanced western economies , and us president ronald reagan and federal reserve chair alan greenspan ushered in a debt cycle that supercharged activity .
japan ’s core political inertia consists in the current pseudo-two-party system comprising the ldp and the dpj , because the party ’s divisions are actually devoid of any consistent ideological and policy differences . both parties include conservatives and liberals , defense hawks , and doves . the dpj ’s president , ichiro ozawa , who once served as ldp secretary general , exemplifies the exemplar of this confused legacy . sadly , the ldp ’s chances that reform will occur , or that the dpj will evolve into a responsible government party in the foreseeable future are slim . japan seems condemned to endure chronic and pointless political warfare until some crisis forces realignment of political parties along ideological and policy lines .
and because his suspension of parliament outraged rebel conservatives who balked at bringing down their own government , a no-confidence vote now stands a greater chance of success . but bringing down the government would not be enough to stop a no-deal brexit . the motley crew of rebels would also need to support the formation of a caretaker government that seeks brexit extension , call a general election , and perhaps also legislate for a second referendum . moreover , labour party leader jeremy corbyn , the hardline socialist and closet brexiteer , insists on leading such a government . that would require the conservative rebels , the opposition liberal democrats , and also labour mps who quit labour in protest over corbyn ’s leadership to rally behind him – tall order .
this arrangement also required that the typically vigilant american internal revenue service be played along . asi ’s profits stem from apple ’s intellectual property ( ip ) rights , which are based on research and development conducted exclusively in the us ( most of it underpinned by federal government funding ) . these profits should therefore be taxed in the us . curiously , the irs choose not to enforce apple ’s obligation to pay taxes on its us-sourced ip profits returns . instead , apple charges asi a symbolic fee for allowing it to profit from apple ’s ip rights , for which it pays a miniscule tax to the irs .
each has won ( or retained ) power by polarizing their societies and mobilizing their electoral base . pekos ’ political style has been enabled by modern news media , which , scrambling for audience share , simplify , and sensationalize issues . starkly antagonistic statements and positions tend to gain the most exposure . this gives confrontational politicians a powerful advantage , producing the electoral polarization on which the pekos fed . this political strategy is undoubtedly effective .
this suggestion may be amusing coming from a child , but there is nothing funny when governments apply it , as they increasingly do , to the complex policies that involve science and technology . britons had their say during the summer on whether they want gene-spliced or genetically modified ( gm ) products in their fields and food . to gauge public opinion in advance of a decision scheduled for later this year on whether to allow commercial planting of gm crops , the british government sponsored ( at great expense ) a series of public debate around the country . local governments and other organizations held hundreds of additional public meetings . the head of the british debate organizing committee , professor malcolm grant , called them a “ unique experiment to discover what ordinary people really think once they heard all the arguments . ”
in fact , the kremlin is financing many of these parties . lenin once said that capitalists would sell the ropes with which they hang . today , european governments seem willing to allow putin to buy votes with which he would destroy the eu . there are other kremlin supporters , as well , including corporate leaders who want to return to business as usual with russia and academic apologists for the soviet union , who , 25 years after his collapse , see a chance for vindication . and , with public opinion polls revealing that a significant minority of europeans falling in line with putin ’s rhetoric , his strategy of dividing the eu and nato seems to be making genuine headway .
in germany alone , construction projects claim an average of more than 75 hectares per day . inappropriate agricultural practices are also to blame : liberal use of synthetic fertilizer , for example , decimates organisms that have been vetoing soil and changing its structure . it takes millennia for fertile topsoil to form ; in many places , cloudburst is now all it takes to wash it away . at the same time , global demand for food , fodder , and biomass for fuels is on the rise , in turn driving up the value of land – a reality that has not escaped international investors ’ attention . according to a world bank estimate , 10-30 % of arable land worldwide – land that millions of smallholders , pastoralists , and indigenous people – have been affected by large-scale investment .
convinced that history will judge the president by his success in containing the iranian threat , broder also assumes that a war with iran would reignite the american economy . that is a strange idea , given that today ’s two ongoing wars have only compounded america ’s weaknesses in the economy . an american war against iran is plausible only as a response to blatant and immediate iranian challenges to vital american interests , such as a major terrorist attack , an invasion of an ally in the gulf , or disruption of the free flow of middle east oil to the west . the iranian regime is far too astute to cross any of these red lines . iran , like north korea , will continue to test obama ’s capacity to build international alliances aimed at putting pressure on defiant states .
the imf ’s economic framework still does not provide counter-cyclical fiscal policies , because the imf remains ambivalent about the standard keynesian prescription of stimulating the economy in a downturn . in brazil and elsewhere , the imf ’s distorted accounting frameworks – what it does and does not count as expenditures – continue to impede the investment required to modernize public-sector enterprises and place major roadblock on the road to land reform . for example , when the government borrows to buy land , it treats debt as a debt , but an offsetting transaction when it sells land through a mortgage effectively goes unrecognized . while germany ’s president is not supposed to intervene in the country ’s day-to-day management , his voice will undoubtedly be influential . it is here that germany should take pause and look at the record .
washington , dc – donald trump has been officially inaugurated as us president , but questions about russia ’s interference in the us election will not go away . yet one key question often loses the fray : why has russian president vladimir putin done so ? it is not difficult to guess , of course , why putin preferred trump to his opponent , former secretary of state hillary clinton . but there is a difference between hoping for an outcome and going to great lengths – and incurring great risks – to help bring it about . in our view , the american intelligence agencies ’ conclusion that , by helping trump , the kremlin has been advancing its “ longstanding desire to undermine the us-led liberal democratic order ” is not entirely convincing .
moreover , the country is projected to grow at an 8-8.5 % rate in the coming fiscal year . no budget changes could generate such marked , cost-free acceleration in growth . it is fair to say that the typically staid statistics department stole the thunder from this year ’s budget . nonetheless , finance minister arun jaitley ’s budget succeeds on several fronts – not least in aligning vision and implementation . specifically , it advances the government ’s vision of a pro-growth agenda that enhances the ease of doing business in india , while targeting improved delivery mechanisms for welfare schemes .
but it also followed a conciliatory diplomatic policy toward britain and the us , spending considerable resources to make itself attractive overseas . after the failure of its imperialist greater east asia co-prosperity scheme of the 1930s ( which had a soft-power component of anti-european propaganda ) and its defeat in world war ii , japan turned to a strategy that minimized military power and relied on strategic alliances with the us . japan ’s single-minded focus on economic growth achieved its goal , but the country developed only modest military and soft power . in its first decades , communist china built its military strength and simultaneously used the soft power of maoist revolutionary doctrine and third world solidarity to cultivate allies abroad . but , after the exhaustion of the maoist strategy in the 1970s , chinese leaders turned to market mechanisms to foster economic development .
xi ’s anti-corruption campaign has gone as far as taking down a retired politburo standing committee member , china ’s most powerful body . likewise , carbon-dioxide emissions have fallen dramatically since early this year , and the authorities seem well on the way to hit the carbon-intensity target established in 2010 . regulatory reforms are starting to mitigate shadow-banking risks , and even some ghost towns are being revived by market forces . at the upcoming fifth plenum , china ’s leaders must build on this progress , agreeing to keep the reform momentum momentum on track . to succeed , the government must , as xi put it , “ gnaw even tough bones ” – that is , overcome vested interests that are resisting change .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
in keeping with the spirit of times , governments introduce business criteria for measuring efficiency – and the “ success , ” more generally – of public services . this means , first and foremost , that they set targets for performance . so ministers proclaim that street crime will be halved by next spring , or that the proportion of each generation will go to universities will rise to 50 % in five years . waiting lists for hospital beds will be cut by one-third within two years . this method of governance makes it appear that at long last we can hold politicians accountable by setting targets or not .
peru ’s president alejandro toledo invented a new extreme sport , a soccer game in which he is the sole player . instead of kicking the ball to win , he aims to such an opponent ’s scores . this explains why , with more than half of his term left , the man who led a popular movement to unseat former president alberto fujimori holds a mere 7 % popularity rating today – the lowest ranking of any peruvian leader since the 1980 ’s , when democracy was re-introduced . toledo assumed that the presidency planned to dismantle the corruption that marked fujimori ’s administration and end the reign of his crooked chief of intelligence , vladimiro montesinos . toledo argued that he would send all dishonest officials to prison – words that captured the imagination of peruvians , who yearned to see criminal politicians brought to justice .
a mistake in the us presidential debate can turn the tide of public opinion overnight , as happened to president gerald ford in his debate with jimmy carter in 1976 . conversely , ronald reagan ’s performance in his 1980 debate with carter is often credited with his victory . another event that could turn the tables would be the “ october surprise ” associated with terrorism , which could shift the agenda from the financial crisis back to security , the republicans ’ stronger suit . in 2004 , shortly before the election , osama bin laden released a video tape that may have helped president bush defeat senator john kerry . from bin laden ’s perspective , bush ’s policies were more useful for his efforts to recruit supporters than kerry ’s might have been .
but i see a practical turn in all this that no one has broached yet . would n’t lugovoi ’s entrance into politics bring about the ideal solution to the problem of finding putin ’s heir ? that search , after all , threatens to divide the elite of nations . so why not choose a man like lugovoi , who truly represents what the elite stands for ? let us compare two potential presidential candidates , putin in 1999 and lugovoi in 2007 .
their mythical tribe was great in some mythical past , so why not try to recreate it ? such thinking poses a serious threat to the world ’s most vulnerable people . the united nations sustainable development goal of eliminating extreme poverty worldwide by 2030 is entirely dependent on continued economic growth through trade , technological innovation , and international cooperation . erecting trade barriers , engaging in digital mercantilism , and , more generally , undermining the liberal world order will severely harm the extreme poor in africa and other underdeveloped regions , while doing nothing to help coal miners in west virginia . strong will always manage , but the weak will bear the brunt of the burden of nostalgic protectionism that erodes the benefits of globalization .
some argue that the state – and , by extension , the communist party of china ( cpc ) – must retain a prominent role , in order to uphold the social stability needed to sustain economic development . others argue that spurring the innovation needed to achieve high-income status requires the state to be less like a market participant and more like referee , regulator , and arbiter of economic and social priorities . without question , the state has been integral to china ’s development , not only by investing in areas like infrastructure and technology , but also by serving as a backstop as nascent markets and private-sector institutions have developed . state involvement is also needed to help manage inequality and ensure that growth patterns are inclusive , which markets alone can not count on to do . moreover , the chinese state has resolved coordination problems that are not easily or efficiently handled by decentralized markets , particularly in developing countries , where market institutions and administrative capabilities may be at different stages of development .
but the urgency of economic urgency does not translate into a policy response that has been painfully slow or non-existent . egypt ’s fiscal deficit , for example , will exceed 11 % of gdp this year . but the country ’s leaders have stalling on the terms of a much-needed international monetary fund loan . last year ’s government cut in fuel subsidies was not followed by additional reforms , and the required tax increase was delayed soon after president mohamed morsi announced it . almost all political stakeholders in egypt , as in other arab countries in transition , recognize the need for economic reform .
and yet that could very well happen . our unicef survey of 126 developing countries found that among the nearly one-half that are cut public expenditures , common adjustment measures include public-sector wage cuts or caps , withdrawal of food subsidies , and targeting and rationalization of already meager social-protection systems . these adjustment measures are often adopted without carefully examining their social impact . how many poor children will suffer – or die – from food shortages and health care ? how many children miss out on education because teachers are absent because of low wages , or simply because poor children must work to supplement their family incomes ?
indeed , germany ’s future could play out in two ways . the world has a large stake in which scenario prevails . the first scenario is bleak : germany fails to integrate refugees socially and economically , surges of political discontent , and newcomers become increasingly frustrated with their plight . any steps they take to vent that frustration embolden right-wing populists and could lead to violence from both sides . if , at worst , a terrorist attack – especially one that could , to some extent , be linked to refugees – a nationalist-populist reaction would be powerful , potentially weakening the very fabric of german society .
by contrast , the army ’s decision to allow mubarak loyalists – some riding camels or horses – to charge in cairo ’s tahrir square and attack thousands of anti-government demonstrators was a classic “ military as government ” move . at this point , a democratic transition will most likely require that the army play a more active role in protecting protesters . what is clear is that the interest of the “ military as institution ” depends on the army ’s ability to establish much greater separation from the regime . successful political transitions are also helped if more and more citizens come to feel that they “ own ” the protests and the resulting transition . in this respect , the fact that the demand for mubarak ’s immediate resignation originated from cairo ’s tahrir square rather than from the obama administration is a positive development .
at the same time , they will obviously work in close collaboration with ugandan forces . but does the uganda operation , following so closely on the libya intervention , herald a police role for the us whenever the un or the icc – which , lacking their own police force , rely on their members and interstate cooperation – judges need it ? given america ’s reluctance to join the icc ( or to bring its own torturers to justice in american courts ) , such a role would be vulnerable to both international and domestic political attack . nevertheless , the extent of america ’s cooperation with the icc has exceeded even the constructive role that the obama administration has proposed . evidently , american policymakers are increasingly receptive to the potential of international criminal justice to undergird the terms of a new form of global engagement .
so why not do americans feel more alarm at their country ’s rising income inequality ? part of the reason they do not is that most americans do not recognize what is happening . one poll found that 19 % of americans think their incomes put them at the top 1 % of the income distribution – and that 20 % more hope to reach the top 1 % someday . deep at the heart of american ideology and culture is a constellation of beliefs and attitudes : belief that the future will be brighter than the present ; that what you accomplish with your own hands ; that individuals should rely on themselves rather than the state ; that people can cross the oceans and mountains to make for themselves a better life ; and that those who succeed do not through luck and corruption , but through the preparation and industry . these are not beliefs conducive to social democracy .
stockholm – our generation has a unique opportunity , and we have a unique opportunity to do so . if we set our minds to do so , we could be the first in human history to leave our children nothing : no greenhouse-gas emissions , no poverty , and no loss of biodiversity . that is the course that world leaders set when they met at the united nations in new york on september 25 to adopt the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . the 17 goals range from ending poverty and improving health to protecting the biosphere and providing energy for all . they emerged from the largest summit in the un ’s history , the “ rio +20 conference ” in 2012 , followed by the largest consultation the un has ever undertaken .
so the noisiest often rewards a megaphone , while less polarizing , less privileged voices drowned out , even if they are providing smart and nuanced perspectives that can truly enrich public debate . unless the algorithm does the job of silencing less privileged voices , online trolls often step in , directing hateful and threatening speech at whomever they choose . women and minorities are particularly likely to be victims of online harassment , but anyone may be targeted . for example , the german blogger richard gutjahr has become an object of conspiracy theories and target intense harassment after being present in two weeks of terrorist attacks . victims of online harassment often respond with self-censorship , and many , with their sense of security and even self-worth eroded , remove themselves from social media altogether .
africans barely count in american politics ; africans do not vote ; they do not buy us products ; they do not threaten violence . they are simply poor , hungry , and disease-ridden . few rich countries do better than america . i single out america not because it is unique in its neglect , but because it is unique in its capacity to lead .
hence , as he put it in 1932 , there may be “ no escape from prolonged and perhaps interminable depression except direct state intervention to promote and subsidize new investment ” – which is what the obama administration is rightly doing . on the question of what caused the crash , the debate is more . krugman is hampered by the fact that he attributes the crash to “ irrationality , ” which , as cochrane points out , is no theory . this is because krugman refuses to take keynes ’s crucial distinction between risk and uncertainty . in my view , keynes ’s major contribution to economic theory was to emphasize the “ extreme precariousness of the basis of knowledge on which our estimates of prospective yield must be made . ”
cape town – nowadays , people are too often forced to choose between doing what is morally right and doing what is economically beneficial . indeed , their options sometimes seem mutually exclusive , making the decisions on which path to exceedingly challenging . sometimes , however , moral rectitude and economic interest merge presents an opportunity that must not be missed . that is the case – from the perspectives of this archbishop and former finance minister – with the world ’s response to climate change . the moral imperative is indisputable , because the effects of climate change – including extreme weather , temperature changes , and rising sea levels – are felt most keenly by the global poor , who have also benefited the least from the economic activities that cause it .
and on that day , he was so well mourned that his absence seemed like part of a show , somehow making us forget that he was no longer with us . abiding in each of us , joyed with jometic , that moved us all : youth spent with a traveling act , like gautier captain fracasse ; father , character out of modiano , who , between bouts of drinking , pawned gifts given to him by his abandoned son . and then there was ’60s rocker with the eyes of the sad wolf and cheekbones hewn by giacometti , catcher in rye mood , and melancholy so intensely hopeless that he seemed to condemn him to live on the edge of every form of excess . he was the consummate artist of the french scene , chameleon beamed out on satellite tv , dripping with fake sweat and real gligorov , an artist who , like the novelist , confessed as a way of lying . hally
of course , it was subject to ups and downs , but it was not subject to the financial crises of the type that we see today regularly . moreover , post-wwii capitalism maintained full employment , with unemployment often hovering around 2 % in europe , north america , and japan . job insecurity back then was mostly unknown , and mass poverty disappeared . the keys to this period of growth and happiness were strong social-welfare systems and mainly keynesian domestic and foreign economic policies in all the world ’s big states . above all , every developed economy pursued policies designed to provide high wages , which would ensure high consumption and thus rapid growth .
but we are interested and associated , but not absorbed . ” that seems to reflect a stance – expressed by cameron and former chancellor of the exchequer george osborne – that helped set the stage for brexit . in response to the euro crisis , they argued that europe needed more fiscal integration , but without the uk ; there would be no british financial participation in future european rescue operations . solidarity ( at least the kind that cost money ) stopped at the english channel . but , like de gaulle ’s declaration and may ’s slogan , churchill ’s statements employed the language of political ambiguity .
what the west can do is apply pressure on iran – and to other governments in the future – to assure and account for protesters ’ safety . natan sharansky has said that this tactic – the west tracking and demanding accountability for treating individual internal dissenters – has helped to break the soviet union . in this crisis , american president hassan rouhani should form a united front with human-rights groups that can advise him precisely how to follow , sustain , and support those iranians who have been or may yet be arrested or worse . barack obama says that america “ stands with ” those who support a free assembly . that will welcome news to people living under dictatorial regimes installed and propped up by the us , and to opposition leaders and journalists languishing in us-supported prisons in those countries for having engaged in just such protest .
russian membership in the world trade organization has the potential to strengthen the rule of law , combat corruption , and give russia a stake in improved relations with the outside world . closer ties between russia and the european union make sense for similar reasons . there should also be some understanding of what russia and the russian people have gone through the last two decades . losing a country and a special place in the world is the sort of trauma that could lead to the rise of extreme and potentially violent nationalism . russia should be treated as a major power , meaning consultations on important global issues .
but a consensus emerged in brazil that a left party could neither win nor govern with hard-left ideas , and lula ’s presidency did not challenge this view . the consensus may have reflected the success of lula ’s predecessor , fernando henrique cardoso , brazil ’s relative success in privatization and liberal market economies around the world , and brazil ’s growth in the middle class . whatever the case , for key brazilian leaders , including rousseff , capitalism has become part of the solution , not the fundamental problem . investors take all kinds of risks . the biggest are not always the legal ones on which the world bank and development agencies have focused ; rather , they are the business risks of a failing or polity implodes .
of course , my reduced cost will be someone else ’s reduced revenue – and not just apple ’s . one big loser in this world will be freight business ( along with junkyards , logistics companies , and centralized recycling operations ) . when things can be made , used , broken/worn out , and recycled closer to home , transportation needs are reduced dramatically . recycled materials need not be delivered to centralized processing centers , and then passed to factories . products will not be made in those factories , and then shipped to customers or into inventory centers .
london – in the 1960s , the green revolution – which included the development of high-yielding crop varieties , the expansion of irrigation infrastructure , and the distribution of modern fertilizers and pesticides to developing-country farmers – bolstered agricultural production worldwide . but chronic hunger remains pervasive , particularly in developing countries , which suffer the most from crop shortages and food-price volatility . by 2050 , the global human population is expected to exceed nine billion . achieving food security means ensuring that all people have consistent , affordable access to the right nutrients , despite land and water constraints , climate change , and the growing prevalence of resource-intensive western-style diets that accompany rising incomes . surmounting these challenges will not be easy .
indeed , for many years , domestic critics of erdoğan ’s government have denouncing what they describe as the regime ’s “ putinization . ” turkey , not the european union , is currently making its presence felt globally . but the course of history can change rapidly . in reality , turkey needs europe as much as europe needs turkey . europe is for turkey “ a principle of moderation ” and an enticement to remain democratic .
on the contrary , experience indicates that governments often struggle to align public spending with underlying or mounting problems , such as public-health threats , until they reach a crisis point . more people died from cancer in the us last year than they did in combat . in fact , last year ’s 580,000 cancer deaths exceed the roughly 430,000 combat deaths , on average , in world war i , world war ii , the korean war , vietnam , and the gulf war . yet government spending on cancer averages roughly $ 4 trillion per year , and the us is still suffering a year from the global war . that is just over 0.5 % of annual us military budgets of roughly $ 718 billion , and the us is still down the road .
a journalist visiting saudi arabia ’s kingdom recently asked me why five out of six students interviewed at king saud university still believe that al qaida was not responsible for the attacks on the world trade center and pentagon in america last year ? dealing with this question is increasingly frustrating for me , because i have run out of plausible explanations . i used to believe that denial of saudi complicity in the attacks reflected our distress with what happened on that dark day . i hoped that we would have the courage to overcome our perceived humiliation and start looking deep into our national psyche , ask the big question , “ why did 15 of our young men attack america in so brutal a way ? ” so far , we are no closer to our attack than we were after the attack to answer to this question , because we can not even find the nerve to ask it .
moreover , income inequality widened , with the global phenomenon of increasing concentration of wealth at the very top very pronounced in many arab countries . top incomes in these countries resulted largely from political patronage rather than innovation and hard work . while tunisia was an extreme case of regime furthering the economic interests of a small clique of insiders , the pattern was widespread . that is why a knee-jerk , simplistic “ washington consensus ” prescription for more liberalization and privatization is inappropriate for the arab world in 2012 . there is a clear political need for a growth strategy in which inclusion is the centerpiece , not the afterthought .
but that is no longer the case . indeed , trump ’s recent actions are not just about trade , but about america ’s departure from pax americana itself . few countries are more connected to the post-war order than germany , which , like japan , owes its post-1945 economic resurgence to the rules-based trading system . germany ’s economy relies heavily on exports , which means acutely vulnerable to trade barriers and punitive tariffs imposed by major trading partners . trump ’s protectionist policies thus challenge the entire german economic model as it has existed since the 1950s .
during macron ’s first five-year term , therefore , he should focus on raising france ’s gdp growth to an average of at least 2 % per year , and reducing unemployment to below 6 % . the simplest way to achieve both goals would be to focus on where france underperforms relative to other eu countries . part of the unemployment challenge is tied to hidden costs . france has some of the eu ’s highest labor costs for hourly employees , and a natural consequence is tepid hiring . with inequality also on the rise , many french are rightly angry that labor is taxed far more than capital gains .
in early december , putin signed a federal budget for 2015 that foresaw 2 % annual gdp growth and a budget deficit amounting to 0.5 % of gdp . but collapsing oil prices , together with tough economic sanctions imposed by the us and europe , meant that by the end of the month , the government was predicting a 4 % decline in gdp and a 3.5 % - of-gdp budget deficit – and that , after budget cuts worth 1 % of gdp , the budget deficit is forecast to be 4 % of gdp . based on these figures , it is estimated that by the end of this year , russia will spend 70 % of the reserve fund accrued over the past decade or so , when oil prices were high . if low oil prices persist , and western economic sanctions remain in place , russia will run out of cash by the end of 2016 . nonetheless , putin ’s approval rating remains at around 80 % .
but libra is , of course , being sold as much more . as one facebook executive puts it , “ we want to send money to be as easy as sending a text message . ” given that libra will take the form of private money tied to a basket of stable major currencies , how would this work in practice ? if argentina ’s people could switch from pesos to a basket of stable currencies with one touch of smartphones , would n’t they then pour into that safe asset at the first hint of trouble in the domestic economy ? a standard “ efficient market analysis ” does not help us to answer that question , because , in perfect markets , such flows would be self-correcting .
the recently rising euro has also helped keep european long-term interest rates down – a key determinant of economic activity – as inflationary expectations deteriorated somewhat in the euro-zone area . during april , the rise in inflationary expectations , and the euro ’s appreciation occurred more or less concurrently . the yield on ten-year german bond yields , which may have been expected to go higher , owing to the worsening inflationary expectations during this period , barely moved . this is a big plus for sustaining economic recovery . should bush , bernanke , or new treasury secretary henry paulson cause investors to lose faith in american financial assets at some point in time , a rising euro will help shield european interest rates from consequences .
this political entity is a precise counterpart in the political world to a well-known physical phenomenon of splintering or fishorizontal . when stressed , a large surface bifurcates in big chunks , but then disintegration continues into smaller and smaller fragments . of the six larger eu states , only france has a genuinely well-defined centralized political system . poland ’s centralism comes close , but strong regional differences persist – a legacy of the three large and quite different imperial systems that enveloped today ’s poland in the nineteenth century . italy and germany were nineteenth-century amalgamations of a colorful variety of small and medium-size political units . the united kingdom looks older and more stable , but scotland today is governed by a political party that wants to repeal the union ’s 1707 act , with the future determined by the 2014 scottish referendum .
we believe in banknotes because we collectively decide to trust the government when it says that 100 is 100 , not 10 or 50 . money , therefore , is about trust without which no society can function . just as we obey our leaders ’ orders to fight and die because we trust their judgment , we entrust our careers , and our money to those who run citigroup and goldman sachs and other banks , because we believe that their leaders will be fair to their employees and clients , and honorable in their business practices . we do not grow up wishing to work for crooks and liars . once that trust breaks , bad things happen .
ultimately , of course , the soviet union ’s ossified structure could not be saved ; but , thanks in large part to gorbachev ’s fundamental decency , the ussr ’s demise in 1991 was rather peaceful . he created an environment in which demands for radical change led to compromise , not rage – in sharp contrast to , say , yugoslavia ’s violent breakup . like francis and sanders , gorbachev was an unlikely reformer . despite rising to power with kgb support , he did not surrender his thought processes to that machine , in the manner that president vladimir putin clearly possesses . likewise , far from fitting the mold of the democratic machine , sanders is working to pull the party back “ to the social democratic left where it belongs . ”
america ’s agricultural subsidies do just that . those in the developing world who believe that there has been a history of bargaining in bad faith have a strong case . that leaves developing countries facing a stark choice : will they be better off accepting crumbs being offered to them ? whatever economics , taking this route may be harder today than ever before : with so many developing countries becoming vibrant democracies , electorates may punish governments that accept what is widely viewed as another unfair trade agreement . unsurprisingly , rich countries ’ negotiators are throwing around big numbers when describing gains from even imperfect agreements .
princeton – recently , physicists at the great hadron collider ( lhc ) – the world ’s most powerful particle accelerator , located near geneva at the organization for nuclear research ( cern ) – announced that the celebrated discovery in 2012 of higgs boson was indeed higgs boson . now , the standard model of particle physics is complete , with the exception of one important one : black holes . four years ago , doomsayers forecast that the lhc would produce microscopic black holes that swallow the earth in a matter of months . latter-day adamnostruses provoked widespread fear , not to mention lawsuits , about the high-energy particle physics experiments . these prophets were , of course , neither the first nor the last of their species .
monetary policy has long played an important role in brazilian politics . during the 1980s and 1990s , successive governments tried to tame hyperinflation , reaching 2,477 % in 1993 . the introduction of the “ real plan , ” launched in 1994 , succeeded in restraining annual price growth to an “ acceptable ” 22 % by the following year . riding on the plan ’s success , its architect , fernando henrique cardoso , the former economy minister , was twice elected president ( in 1994 and 1998 ) , underscoring voter concern about price stability . today , as central bankers in the developed world fret about the threat of deflation , brazilian policymakers are once again being forced to respond to widespread fears of slowing growth and a return to high inflation .
not surprisingly , the atmosphere at this year ’s world economic forum was grim . those who think that globalization , technology , and market economies will solve the world ’s problems seemed subdued . most chastened of all were bankers . against the backdrop of the sub-prime crisis , disasters at many financial institutions , and the weakening of the stock market , these “ masters of the universe ” seemed less omniscient than they did a short time ago . and it was not just the bankers who were at davos doghouse this year , but their regulators – central bankers – were also .
now , given the profound sovereign-debt crisis in the eurozone ’s periphery , government defaults threaten to take down big banks . the european central bank has provided a large emergency “ liquidity ” funding to banks , which they use to buy even more government debt . this holds down interest rates on that debt in the short run but creates even bigger potential losses when potential default is insolvent . banks and politics are deeply intertwined in all advanced economies . diamond discovered that , ultimately , policymakers trump bankers – at least in the uk .
despite low average growth rates , the bottom quintile ’s income grew by more than 6 % annually in the 2000 ’s , owing largely to cost-effective social policies . provided that the government continues to pursue a comprehensive poverty-reduction strategy – including improved access to health care , financial services , and education – brazil ’s overall productivity should improve in the years ahead . even so , brazil has a long way to go . for starters , anemic investment in traditional infrastructure since the 1980 ’s has become an increasingly heavy drag on tfp , contributing to waste and inefficiency in existing production systems . this could be addressed by fine-tuning labor ’s division into infrastructure investment and management between the public and private sectors , with the goal of crowding in the latter .
in the period following the oil shocks of the 1970s until the early 1980s , nearly two-thirds of countries recorded inflation rates above 10 % . according to the latest data , which runs through july or august for most countries , there are “ only ” 14 cases of high inflation ( the red line in the figure ) . venezuela ( which did not publish official inflation statistics this year ) , and argentina ( which did not release reliable inflation data for several years ) figure prominently in this group . iran , russia , syria , ukraine , and a handful of african countries comprise the rest . the share of countries recording outright deflation in consumer prices ( the green line ) is higher in 2015 than that of countries experiencing double-digit inflation ( 7 % of gdp ) .
for the most part , the quick fixes they have imposed so far have not been very successful . in the us , there is , of course , an alternative . in the absence of sufficient funds , one can simply let universities deteriorate . on the european continent , this has been happening since the 1970s . overcrowded classes in often lack the physical surroundings without the necessary equipment have led to ever longer periods of study , worsening the quality of degrees , and much unhappiness among students and professors alike .
only war ’s bloodshed , sad to say , can seal such a diplomatic bargain . kosovo ’s need to be liberated from milosevic ’s grip has been so evident for a decade . two million kosovars suffered from milosevic ’s rule in every aspect of their lives , from basic security to education . for years , they tried to express their grievances through peaceful means . as a political activist in yugoslavia ’s final days , i tried to build on the philosophy of nonviolence , leading demonstrations , and other forms of peaceful dissent .
the phenomenon took many forms , including the muslim brotherhood , established in 1928 . at the same time , nation-building efforts along secular lines reflected egyptian president gamal abdel nasser ’s pan-arabism and the syrian baath party , resulting in the united arab republic ’s establishment , the union between egypt and syria that lasted from 1958 to 1961 . a half-century later , the simultaneous revolts in the arab world were the product of neither political tendency , nor reflected widespread popular rejection of dysfunctional and corrupt authoritarian governments . but , with syria immersed in a brutal civil war that claimed more than 130,000 lives already , libya on the brink of collapse , and egypt returning power to the army and proscribing the muslim brotherhood , tunisia was the only success . tunisia adopted its new constitution on january 27 , thereby clearing the way for what will be the most secular and fairest elections in any region .
berlin – the way we eat in the industrialized world is unhealthy , unjust , and unsustainable . far too much meat consumed is produced under questionable ecological , ethical , and social conditions . and now our industrial model for meat production is being exported to the global south – especially india and china – where meat consumption is rising among these countries ’ emerging middle classes . worldwide , 300 million tons of meat are produced each year , with the united nations food and agriculture organization estimating that the annual figure will increase to 455 million tons by 2050 if demand continues to grow at current rates . such large amounts of meat can be produced on an industrial scale alone , at a high social , political , and ecological costs .
cambridge – for some time , the four horsemen of us macroeconomic policymaking have been taxation , regulation , trade , and infrastructure . having studied the first in detail , i have found tax cuts to be a positive contributor to economic growth . though i have considered the second area in less detail , the evidence suggests that regulation is , at best , only a minor contributor to growth . the third area is very important , which is why today ’s trade tensions are so worrying . the fourth area exists only in rhetoric : an infrastructure program currently is not a part of the macroeconomic policy repertoire .
as gordon notes , there have been long-lasting productivity dividends associated with urbanization – a trend that could continue for at least another decade in china . but there will come a time when this tailwind subsides and china begin to converge on the so-called frontier of the advanced economies . at that point , china will face the same productivity challenges that confront america and others . chinese policymakers ’ new focus on innovation-led growth seems to recognize this risk . without powerful innovations , sustaining productivity growth will be an uphill battle .
but the plan was projected to depress economic activity further , and it failed to lay the right basis for calculating how much debt restructuring puerto rico would need . sadly , the opportunity for the right puerto rico ’s fiscal ship has not been seized . on the contrary , the oversight board recently certified a new fiscal plan , and an agreement by holders of bonds issued by puerto rico ’s urgent interest fund corporation ( cofina ) that could put the island on a debt straitjacket indefinitely . at $ 17.8 billion , the cofina bonds stock ( backed by future sales-tax revenues ) accounts for more than one-third of total debt in the new fiscal plan . and the cofina deal itself is part of a larger debt-restructuring effort , which is based on an unrealistic assessment of commonwealth economic conditions .
ten years on , what impact have been on displaced people ’s lives ? the achievements are notable , if insufficient . we raised awareness of the plight of the displaced , brought about changes in government policies , and raised billions of dollars to respond to their basic needs . this has helped save countless lives . humanitarian efforts continue to be strengthened , including through a new rapid funding mechanism , the un ’s central emergency response fund .
wearing a watch that costs 200 times more than one that does a better job of keeping time says something else , even as it worn down people who are not governing a relatively poor country . andrew carnegie , the richest man of the veblen era , was blunt in his moral judgments . “ the man who dies rich , ” he is often quoted as saying , “ dies disgraced . ” we can adapt that judgment to a man or woman who wears a $ 30,000 watch or buys similar luxury goods , like a $ 12,000 handbag . in essence , such a person is said ; “ i am either extraordinarily ignorant or just plain selfish .
he shows that both the “ total ” and the “ average ” answers have paradoxical or counter-intuitive implications . but then , so , does every other answer that has been proposed since parfit revived the problem , and other philosophers have begun offering solutions to themselves . if reasons and people could easily have been three separate books , on what matters really are : the first two volumes were published in 2011 , while a third in the press , when parfit died , has just appeared . in this monumental work , totaling some 1,900 pages , parfit the idea – almost universally assumed by economists , and by many philosophers from david hume onward – that the role of reason is to tell us how to get what we want , but not to tell us what to want . on the contrary , parfit argued , desires can be irrational .
by acknowledging mental health and wellness issues at work , we can make a difference in our homes , schools , and communities as well . seeking mental-health care should be as routine and unremarkable as seeking treatment for high blood pressure , diabetes , or heart status . moreover , we must reduce mental health inequity , a frequently ignored issue . this often poses a problem in lower-income communities , where populations may be at greater risk of pathology and often confront the highest barriers to getting care , partly owing to the lack of specialized resources available in wealthier areas . there are some innovative approaches to addressing this problem , such as zimbabwe ’s friendship bench , and i look forward to learn more about this project from one of its representatives in davos .
experts argue that the probability of a terrorist attack because of the dubai takeover is small . should the damage inflicted by a terrorist attack be small , too . but the damage inflicted by an attack might be enormous , because ports are thought to be one of the few ways terrorists might smuggle nuclear weapons into the us . because of this , americans can not afford even the minutest of chances with their ports – the consequences of error being too staggering to contemplate . the american public understands this even if their president does not .
but four political developments that have modified the international security agenda are likely to transform chicago into a high-profile summit in its own right . first , revolutions in the arab world and nato ’s military intervention in libya have refocused the alliance ’s attention on the middle east and north africa . second , the international financial crisis will have immense implications for nato members ’ defense budgets . third , in a speech last june , outgoing us defense secretary robert gates revived the transatlantic burden-sharing and solidarity debate within the alliance . finally , the first nato summit to be held in the united states in 13 years is taking place not only in an election year , but also in president barack obama ’s hometown of hometown .
yet smallholders can not be ignored when it comes to climate-change solutions : the world ’s half-billion small farms account for 60 % of global agricultural production , and provide up to 80 % of food supply in developing countries . together , they manage vast areas of our planet , including 80 % of farmland in sub-saharan africa and asia . can we really count on these farmers , many of them desperately poor , to assume a leading role in addressing the twin challenges of food security and environmental sustainability ? can they produce more food while protecting the natural environment ? we believe that the answer to both questions is resounding yes .
one such reform would be to expand access to foreign investors . over the past decade , foreigners have been barred from making investments in more than 40 industries designated as “ critical for national security ” by the government . this ban , while beneficial for industry insiders , has reduced russia ’s access to financial markets and , more critical , to new technologies that follow the financial flows . the financial sanctions that followed russia ’s forced “ reunification with crimea ” in 2014 have intensified russia ’s isolation further , as has the country ’s own moves to retaliate : a series of sweeping trade restrictions , including outright bans on food imports from the european union and the us . lifting these constraints would not only give the economy an immediate boost , but also boost long-term gdp growth .
the relationship between cee countries and the uk has always been rather fraught . in the 1990s , the uk was a proponent of eu membership for cee countries at a time when leaders in france and germany were still very hesitant about eu enlargement . but uk support had a catch : british leaders , reluctant to accept the eu ’s long-stated goal of an “ ever-closer union ” – which implies political unification and shared national and federal sovereignty – made no secret of their desire to use the widening of eu membership to prevent the deepening of european integration . during the brexit negotiations with eu leaders ahead of the referendum , british prime minister david cameron obtained an opt-out clause in the case of a decision to move toward ever-closer union . should he prevail in the referendum and persuade voters to stay , it will send a dangerous signal to illiberal politicians in eastern europe .
and future workers will require training in ethics , helping them navigate a world in which the value of human beings can no longer be taken for granted . educators preparing students for this future must start now . business majors should study economic and political history to avoid becoming blind determinists . economists must learn from engineering students , because they will be engineers building the future workforce . and law students should focus on the intersection of big data and human rights to gain the insight needed to defend people from forces that may seek to turn individuals into disposable parts .
the top-down hierarchy is autocratic and arbitrary ; lower levels have little collaborative input and no right to appeal . serious breaches can result in reprimands or dismissals . in effect , the system has become largely self-regulating . in my experience , 99 % of all censorship occurs with writers and producers themselves . sporadic complaints and warnings from above allow them to develop an intuitive sense of the boundaries of acceptable content , so they create evidence that they are free from offending material from the start .
tokyo – japanese prime minister shinzo abe has decided to extend the diet ’s current session for 95 days , until september 27 – making for the longest continuous session in japan ’s postwar history . the reason is clear : abe is determined to pass a set of national security bills that allow a reinterpretation of japan ’s constitution that enables the country to play a greater role not only in enhancing its own security , but also in advancing world peace . abe ’s actions in the diet come on the heels of his performance at the recent g-7 summit in germany , where he broke with japan ’s tradition . for the last 39 years , japanese representatives to the g-7 focused on economic discussions at such meetings , content to remain largely silent as the industrialized world ’s other leaders surveyed the planet ’s political hot spots , and recommended action or , more often , inaction . but the summit showed that japan no longer intends to stand on the diplomatic sidelines .
in february 1996 , kohl urged that nato put enlargement on hold until the russian and american presidential elections passed . he instructed ministers not to discuss the matter publicly , suggesting that talks not be left in nato machinery alone . to underline this , chancellor bush 's first foreign policy activity after his summer vacation visit was a visit , in early september , to ailing boris yeltsin with whom kohl friendly relations . this visit yielded another appeal not to rush nato enlargement . in germany 's parliament , chancellor boris yeltsin announced that yeltsin , after his operation , would " renew the necessary dialogue and address specific issues more urgently , such as nato enlargement … . to reach agreement with president clinton , president chirac , and prime minister , the us would now refrain firmly from dealing with the important matter of nato-enlargement in some framework , so that moscow does not feel that we are creating fiat accompli . "
only this , fogel believes , can explain recent longevity trends , body size , durability of vital organs , and chronic diseases . these changes are also triggering changes in human consciousness . the result is a litany of “ post-utopian ” values that include a stronger emphasis on individual freedom and personal responsibility . in this world without utopia , individual freedom is supreme . but , as with any change of such magnitude , holdouts exist .
london – the gravity of the eurozone crisis has finally sunk . the stakes could not be higher . governments and international financial institutions have scrambled to put together solutions within exceedingly tight political and economic constraints . so far , many questions have been answered about design ; implementation will be at least as challenging . eurozone leaders must now aim to preserve not only the single currency , but also the gains from european financial integration .
washington , dc – while much of the developed world is rightly worried about myriad privacy outrages at the hands of big tech and demanding – and securing – for individuals a “ right to be forgotten , ” many around the world are posing a very different question : what about the right to be seen ? following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
drug-related violence consumed untold numbers of victims in afghanistan , burma , colombia , the us , and mexico . the swiss re-examined their government ’s drug policies with a pragmatic eye . health professionals took the lead in campaigning to press the government – through direct democracy mechanisms – to shift its focus from arresting and punishing drug users toward public-health policies that are based on scientific evidence of what works . the swiss implemented methadone programs . and , to prevent the spread of hiv , they created needle exchanges , including in prisons , and established safe injection rooms on a large scale . the swiss federal office of public health also oversaw an experiment in prescribing heroin to people who lived with opiate dependency for significant periods .
washington , dc – the impact that groundbreaking technological advances like artificial intelligence will have on how our economies operate and labor markets have long been hot . but jerusalem ’s recent book human beings need not apply : a guide to wealth and work in an age of artificial intelligence impressed me on the true size of socioeconomic stakes . one relatively well-known example of the digital revolution ’s impact on the workings of markets is its ability to earn huge returns in high-speed trading by being a microsecond “ ahead ” of everyone else . another is the capacity for price discrimination by new electronic market makers like uber , which thus fits every penny of the old “ consumer surplus ” of microeconomic theory . soon , a new kind of enhanced uber could emerge , integrating cars , bus , ship , airplane travel , and hotel rooms into one super-app .
in a world of scarce resources , policymakers must prioritize their investments , including differentiating the necessary from desirable . to that end , finding ways to identify and maximize complementarity is vitally important . some 2.1 billion people worldwide lack access to safe , readily available water at home , and more than twice as many – a whopping 4.5 billion – lack safely managed sanitation , severely undermining health outcomes , and fueling river pollution . with a growing share of the world ’s population – including many of the same people – feeling the effects of environmental degradation and climate change firsthand , finding solutions that simultaneously advance environmental , water provision , and health could not be more important . global health and conservation professionals must work together to find these solutions more closely – and persuade policymakers to pursue them .
this is an unwelcome development for software providers whose business model is based on licensing and annual maintenance fees , rather than electricity usage . indeed , large companies in almost every field are vulnerable , because startups become better equipped , more competitive , and capable , like larger firms , of reaching customers and users everywhere . moreover , disruptive technologies will cause value to shift among economic sectors , as occurred when television overtook radio or , more recently , when online media gained dominance over print publication . businesses in all sectors now must invest in understanding new technologies to seize opportunities or mount effective defenses quickly . indeed , ceos and other top executives need to be technologists , or at least technology-savvy , and constantly assess how innovations affect the status quo specifically their profit pools .
by 2013 , the proportion had dropped to 13.5 % , and the share had dropped to 13.5 % . though the developing world had 1.7 billion more people than it had in 1991 , 209 million fewer were starving . over the last 22 years , the world has managed to feed almost two billion more people adequately – no small feat . over the next year , the world ’s 193 governments will come together to set new global targets to meet by 2030 . the challenge amounts to this generation ’s greatest opportunity to translate high aspirations into concrete targets .
fifteen people were killed , and many more injured , in what is remembered as the peterloo massacre . given the recent memory of the violent french revolution , the british elite reluctantly agreed to democratizing reform . ultimately , the 1832 reform act abolished rotten boroughs , extending the franchise to the new middle class ( the working class and women would have to wait ) . the united states , too , went though a period of robber-baron industrialization in 1870 and 1880 ’s . the greed and corruption of that era were satirized in 1873 by mark twain and charles dudley warner in their book the gilded age : the narrative of today .
but , thanks to farage – and to faragism , which has taken over the governing conservative party – an act of economic self-harm that clearly runs counter to the national interest is portrayed as the apotheosis of british patriotism . narrow-minded nationalism is not simply a british malady : across the west , much of the public sees globalization as leaderless , lacking a human face , and akin to an uncontrolled runaway train . moderate leaders everywhere must now respond not only to the economic discontent of millions who are losing out , but also to the cultural pessimism and dismissal of politicians as being “ in it only for themselves ” that is being given succor to the populist nationalism promoted by trump cheerleader stephen bannon and his ilk . what makes it all the worse in britain , however , is a series of gross errors of political judgment during and after the 2016 referendum campaign . while the defeated remain waged an economic campaign centered on fear of job losses from exiting the eu , the victorious leave party waged a culture war by exaggerating fears of
a survey of existing laws and regulations found that many were contradictory and overlapping . the ande proposed the creation of a new court by amending the constitution . it was successful because of strong public support for combating corruption . the new court is empowered to reconcile or revoke laws that contain conflicts and duplications . each firm and business association must decide on the best strategies and tactics to pursue in their countries .
how did ukraine reach this state of cynicism ? a year ago , everyone gathered in kyiv ’s streets knew what we stood up against : a corrupt government that sought to command life and labor , and dispose of state property at its will . in so far as formal legal rights existed , no court could be relied on to enforce those rights when our rulers saw their interests as being challenged . in evicting that regime , we believed that this form of absolutism was ended . instead , those who benefited from the regime = s have insisted that their rights to the property they had stolen were inviolating .
one community was provided with continuous access to micronutrient and protein supplement called atole . moreover , health workers visited mothers during pregnancy , providing free medical services . another community nearby had the same program , except that micronutrient supplement was provided without protein . for children who received atole , stunting risk fell by more than one-half . they stayed in school longer , learned more , scored higher on cognitive tests in adulthood , and were more likely to be employed in higher-paying , skilled jobs .
from day to day , the coalition has been riven by feuds . ministers have acted like adversaries rather than partners . rather than blaming iliescu for the shambles in which he left the country , coalition members have blamed each other . such squabbling , it seems , is a postcommunist malady . poland , hungary , even russia : infighting among reformers allowed the political heirs to the communists to reclaim power .
though the economy was at full employment , they rebelled against the status quo in the name of dubious utopias inspired by fidel castro ’s cuba and mao ’s china . they were joined by well-organized trade unions , which helped the movement reach critical mass , at least temporarily . the difference between then and now is that those taking to the streets to protest against macron ’s proposed fuel-tax increase are animated not by utopia but by despair . in this sense , the yellow vest uprising is not unlike the french brexit , in which it amounts to an act of shooting oneself in the foot . while the british resorted to the ballot box , the french adopted a mix of barricades , marches , and stone .
she remembers everything and regrets nothing . she feels that in acting as she did , she was faithful to her cherished values and beliefs . and she has no doubt that the west , in responding to the arab league ’s entreaty to intervene , avoided a replay of srebrenica in north africa . what strikes me most is that she sees , even then , the beginnings of tribal conflicts and the coming contest among islamists to outdo one another in fundamentalist purity . she worries about early human-rights violations , particularly women ’s rights , which she fears will multiply .
over the past six months , the us has abandoned its four-decade-old policy of engagement with china , adopting a containment strategy instead . facing escalating geopolitical competition with the us , china is scrambling to win friends in the region . although china ’s offensive is very recent , its contours are already clear . the most prominent feature is trade . as the numerous asian countries ’ largest trading partner , china will offer attractive terms of trade with its neighbors , much as singapore has done .
london – “ shorting ” is a tactic well known among financial coreds . it means betting against an asset with borrowed money in anticipation of profit when its value goes down . a speculator can “ short ” a government by borrowing its debt at its current price , in the hope of selling it later at lower prices and pocketing the difference . for example : on january 1 , 2010 , i think i am about to be up soon for greeks . i borrow at face value , € 10 million of the greek government ’s 2016 bond , which then trades at € 0.91 , from goldman sachs for six months .
indeed , the lack of restrictions has allowed dubious journalistic practices to flourish . jordan ’s diverse tribal composition has been reflected in newly established web sites , some of which have been created with tacit support – and even funding – from security agencies or other official or political groups . moreover , many people have launched news web sites exclusively for financial gain . taking advantage of the implicit authority of news media , they have published any potentially damaging rumor about individuals or groups with means and influence , then offering to remove the story in exchange for paid advertisement or outright cash payment . in response to such extortionary practices , king abdullah ii decried “ character assassination ” by online news media , demanding that the government establish a regulatory framework for this unruly new sector .
the poison of terrorism has now ripped into the un 's humanitarian work , with the tragic bombing of its iraqi mission headquarters . dozens of innocent people have been killed , including one of the world 's most accomplished peacemakers , sergio vieira de mello . predictably , president bush has re-stated his determination to wage war on terrorism . other leaders have declared that the un should not abandon its mission . yet bombing raises political questions that demand answers .
but they are indeed illegal occupiers , because russia ’s decision to give passports to these regions ’ residents attests . now , russia is threatening to recognize the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia if the west recognizes kosovo ’s serbian province as an independent nation . to the extent that most of abkhazia and south ossetia residents have already been given russian citizenship , recognition of these two regions ’ sovereignty would be entirely fictitious , and , indeed , an interim measure on the way to their full annexation by russia . to strengthen russia ’s political clout over georgia ’s separatist regions , gazprom , without having to take the trouble to ask for permission from georgia ’s democratically elected leaders , has begun to build a gas pipeline connecting russia and south ossetia directly . while there has been no interruption in gas supplies from tbilisi to south ossetia , this step is needed for the kremlin to ensure even greater integration of this georgian region into russia ’s economic system .
back then , german bankers and bosses deluded themselves into thinking that they could control their country ’s vulgar new chancellor . and they were convinced that , despite hitler ’s strange behavior and appearance , he remained the best defense against communism . sadly , many of today ’s elites seem to have learned nothing from history , and think and act as if interests and values were totally disconnected from one another in the real world . so long as trump is good for business , they seem untroubled that he is the single greatest threat to america ’s soul and values , and to its image and interests abroad . sure , they say , trump may be going a bit too far with the chinese on trade , but at least he has been asking them the right questions .
even more worryingly , this would open the door for provisions that are outlawing benign , low-risk data mining that drives online advertising . online advertising enables eu citizens to access information , educational material , commerce channels , and entertainment sites without paying for them directly , and the amount that is being spent in europe is growing fast . industry revenues have more than quadrupled since 2006 , even as the overall european economy has stagnated . the eu ’s privacy crackdown threatens to undermine all of this . not only will it create an administrative burden through additional costs and bureaucratic hassles ; it also raises the real possibility that new rules will undermine many of europe ’s most prominent online companies .
when programs are developed in conjunction with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often missed school because they lacked access to clean sanitary products . but when reusable sanitary pads and education about menstruation were provided to girls in eight schools , attendance rose by an average of 17 % . the global-health community must work together to address menstrual needs of women and girls everywhere ; no one-size-fits-all solution to this global problem is possible . but the silence surrounding the natural process of menstruation must be broken to ensure that women and girls can obtain the sanitary products they need at affordable prices . today , bloody good periods donate sanitary products – including pads and tampons , as well as diapers and “ jokowi ” – to more than a dozen uk resource centers for asylum-seekers every month .
but , for many revolutionaries , there were other ways to sack a tainted prosecutor and cleanse the judiciary . for example , a new law regulating the judiciary has been a demand for the revolution since its early weeks . for morsi , the dilemma was that the constitutional court could strike down the law , rendering the effort meaningless . he had already backed twice : once in july 2012 , after abandoning his effort , under pressure from the supreme council of the armed forces , to reinstate the elected parliament ; and once he tried to remove the public prosecutor by making him egypt ’s ambassador to the holy see . morsi ’s “ constitutional declaration ” was a decisive – albeit undemocratic , polarizing , and thus politically costly – step to break the impasse .
moreover , it amounts to betraying the longstanding american commitment to uphold a rules-based monetary system that discourages competitive currency devaluation . in foreign policy , us secretary of state rex tillerson endorsed the us ’s revival of the monroe doctrine – a nineteenth-century assertion of american primacy in the western hemisphere that aims to keep european competitors – in central and south america to curb china ’s growing influence . tillerson ’s nostalgia for 1823 was not shared south of the us border , where , as one mexican commentator pointed out , the monroe doctrine “ served to justify gringo interventions , ” and where china ’s increasing engagement is viewed as a counterweight to the us . the trump administration has also unveiled a new , more aggressive nuclear policy . its nuclear posture review proposes using nuclear strikes in response to non-nuclear threats , and deploying new “ low-yield ” nuclear devices to deliver submarine a nuclear-bomb equivalent in power to those that destroyed hiroshima and nagasaki in 1945 .
in other emerging markets , too , the main challenge is to ensure that all macroeconomic and structural policies advance common goals . at the same time , the governance structure of multilateral institutions like the international monetary fund must be reformed to bolster their legitimacy in emerging markets . otherwise , these institutions will remain ineffective in confronting collective problems related to macroeconomic-policy spillovers , and in providing insurance against crises . policymakers in both advanced and emerging countries alike should focus on underlying failures that destabilize their economies and impede growth , rather than trying to treat symptoms by manipulating monetary policy or capital controls . unless they are backed by strong institutional structures at all levels , such measures will prove futile in managing capital flows .
the economic challenges facing developed-country middle classes are largely the result of two factors : rapid white - and blue-collar routine jobs to automation , and a shift in middle - and lower-value-added jobs to lower-labor-cost countries . the latter pattern depressed incomes and wage growth not only in the tradable sector directly , but also in the non-tradable service sectors , owing to the spillover of displaced labor . the result was surplus labor conditions in the middle – and the lower-middle-income ranges , not dissimilar to early-stage surplus labor in developing countries , where it suppresses income growth ( for a period of time ) even as the economy expands . a decline in bargaining power for labor and a falling real minimum wage may also have contributed to income polarization , though these are probably secondary factors . though the challenges facing the middle class are well documented , american leaders have largely failed to recognize fully the struggles of middle-class households , much less implement countermeasures .
zurich – finland ’s central bank governor , olli rehn , has reiterated his call for the european central bank to conduct a long-overdue review of its policy framework . the upcoming leadership change at the institution – with christine lagarde , the international monetary fund ’s managing director since 2011 , likely to succeed mario draghi as president – offers an important opportunity to heed that call . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
such scenarios were unimaginable until recently , until only recently . for decades , europe constituted the world ’s most successful , stable , and predictable region , a place where history seemed to have all but ended . the goal of making the continent peaceful , whole , and free has largely been realized . but dramatic change has come to europe . one factor is vladimir putin ’s willingness and ability to demonstrate russia to use military force , economic coercion , and cyber manipulation to advance his agenda .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . batang toru is just one of many planned infrastructure projects worldwide that are officially deemed environmentally sound , despite posing serious environmental risks . for example , construction is almost complete on a railway line through kenya ’s famous nairobi national park , despite public outrage over an “ incomplete and incompetent ” environmental impact assessment .
in many ways , these measures succeeded : monetary expansion played a major role in pulling the economy back from the brink . but , over time , the capacity of central banks to affect the real economy has declined . today – and for the foreseeable future – domestic inflation is increasingly affecting global rather than local , developments , and financial ( in ) stability and fiscal policy is far more influential than monetary policy . for the ecb , this generates a particularly serious challenge . after all , unlike other central banks , it must account for the preferences of the 19 sovereign governments , with little to no structural or fiscal-policy coordination .
today , the fastest-growing cities are in asia , and the us is the world ’s largest . beijing is roughly 10 ° c hotter than nearby daytime countryside and 5.5 ° c warmer at night . there are even more dramatic increases in tokyo . in august , temperatures have climbed 12.5 oc above surrounding rural areas , reaching 40oc – scorching heat that affected not only downtown areas , but also covered some 8,000 square kilometers . looking at a fast-growing city like houston , texas , we can see the real effect of urban heat island .
some people saw these changes happening , and worried about them . a growing minority began pursuing intense physical activity not in fields or factories , but in leisure settings . the sweat of one brow was no longer associated with productive work , but with consumption – often conspicuous – consumption . gyms became new sources of community . and , as coworkers began to exercise together , enlightened employers came to see such recreation as a valuable source of physical and mental well-being .
according to the european council on foreign relations , 32 referenda are being demanded in 18 countries across the eu . some , such as the danish people ’s party , want to follow the united kingdom ’s lead , holding a vote on eu membership . others want to flee the european union , block the transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) with the united states , or restrict labor mobility . the eu ’s refugee relocation scheme has proved to be particularly divisive . hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has declared that he will hold a referendum on proposed quotas .
from the start of his presidency , obama ’s defense of the liberal trade regime has been inadequate . he has said repeatedly that us exports are good for the us : they create jobs . but us exports are other nations ’ imports , so obama ’s argument amounts to telling others to lose their jobs . he needs to remind americans that imports are also good : he can surely ask his audience to think of jobs in the ups and freight trains , and trucks that carry imports into the american interior . the main problem , however , is that obama has been unable to confront , placing himself on rest , america ’s labor unions ’ fear-driven hostility to trade .
usury ( making money from money ) was an offense against god . it was only in the eighteenth century that greed became morally respectable . it was now considered healthily promethean to turn wealth into money and to put it to work to make more money because by doing this one benefited humanity . this inspired the american way of life , where money always talks . the end of capitalism simply means the end of the urge to listen .
rather than focusing on treatment that works , the polish government chooses to give priority to long-term rehabilitation centers located in the depths of the countryside that have little , if anything , to do with evidence-based medicine . poland also chooses to treat possession of even the smallest volume of drugs as criminal , as evidenced by the fact that 60 % of people condemned for drug possession in poland are marijuana smokers . addressing drug use through criminalization and rehabilitation centers does nothing to curb demand , but the rate of usage has failed to decline . by driving users underground , criminalization contributes to a deepening public-health crisis . this pattern persists across central and eastern europe , where governments have also opted for imprison drug users .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a big , risky experiment . key interest rates have remained near zero for six years now . financial markets are awash in liquidity , and they are now running at a rate of zero . crisis management has generated major market distortions , with some segments of the performance of the segments no longer quite quite quite quite amorphous by fundamental economic data . the unintended consequences of this policy are becoming increasingly visible – and will become increasingly tangible with america ’s federal reserve ’s exit from post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy .
the alliance has evolved into a true security-management organization that is flexible , efficient , and cost-effective . threats have changed and become more global . nato is developing a ballistic-missile defense capability to protect our european populations and territories against grave and growing threats . in the indian ocean , nato is working with the european union and many others to police major sea-lanes threatened by pirates . and , in countries around the world , it carries tasks like de-mining , disaster relief , advising on how to bring military force under democratic control , and working closely with the un to prevent harm to children .
to promote sales , buyers are exempted from sales and excise taxes ( $ 6,000 – $ 10,000 per vehicle ) . and , anticipating the eventual replacement of conventional motor vehicles globally , the us authorities are providing generous subsidies to domestic manufacturing . meanwhile , the trump administration is trying to turn back the clock , by betting on resuscitation of dying – and deadly – fossil-fuel industries . describing a shift to electric vehicles as a job killer , trump has advocated ending federal subsidies that encourage domestic development , manufacture , and purchase , such as the $ 7,500 federal consumer tax credit . china ’s dependence on fossil fuels has left it in a deep environmental hole , but its leaders are determined to climb out .
provided that it is non-discriminatory , such border pricing would enhance global welfare , and be compatible with world trade organization rules . but calculating the appropriate tax would be very difficult in practice . for example , it would necessitate calculating the tax equivalent of regulatory ceilings . the measure might also invite countries like the united states to retaliate with distortionary measures , making it somewhat dangerous . moreover , a tax would likely have regressive distributional consequences , hurting poor countries the most .
eurozone countries , together with others willing to join the euro in the future ( the “ eurozone plus ” ) , could simply decide to use legal means already available to enhance cooperation . ideally , this cooperation would take place within the eu ’s institutional framework . if all eurozone members participated , article 136 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu could be used to support their action.the scale of this provision – which says , “ [ the european council ] shall … adopt measures specific to [ the ] member states of the euro ] , ” and that “ only [ the european ] member states … take part of the vote ” – is wide . moreover , article 138 would allow unified representation of the eurozone in the international monetary fund and the world bank . the group could then expand cooperation to three other policy areas :
gunnarsdóttir accepts that “ everyone has the right to believe in what they want , ” but insists that “ the rights of children come above the right to believe . ” for its part , imam ahmad seddeeq of iceland ’s islamic cultural center countered that circumcision was a part of muslim faith , and that gunnarsdóttir ’s bill amounts to “ a contravention [ of ] religious freedom . ” and agnes m. sigurardóttir , iceland ’s bishop , has warned that ban would effectively turn judaism and islam into “ criminalized religions , ” because anyone practicing circumcision could be subject to six years in jail . complicating matters further , both sides base their arguments on human rights . for example , some ban supporters have argued that circumcision violates article 5 of the universal declaration of human rights ( udhr ) , which states that , “ no one is subjected to torture or cruel , inhuman , or degrading treatment or punishment . ”
but policy analysts can not limit themselves to the classic instruments of nuclear deterrence – punishment and denial – as they assess the possibility of deterrence and dissuasion in cyberspace . they should also pay attention to the mechanisms of entanglement and norms . entanglement can alter the cost-benefit calculus of a major state like china , but it probably has little effect on a state like north korea , which is weakly tied to the global economy . “ persistent engagement ” can nonetheless aid deterrence in such difficult cases . of course , entering any adversary ’s network and disrupting attacks poses a danger of escalation .
confirmation of a stricter and more rigorous stability pact is also imperative to achieve greater integration . here , the eu summit in december was an important step forward in terms of deepening political union and strengthening governance among the eurozone ’s member states . but more will be needed to restore financial stability , such as enlarging the european financial stability facility ’s total firepower . moreover , if the eu is to emerge strengthened from the crisis , it must also strike a better balance between austerity and pro-growth policies , because , without growth and higher employment , the eurozone ’s problems can not be resolved . more important , the eu must tie its economic strategies to long-term competitiveness , ultimately determined by the value added to goods and services .
in 2007 , shadow-banking transactions in the us exceeded that of conventional banking assets . the financial stability board estimated that total global shadow-banking assets amounted to $ 67 trillion in 2011 , with america accounting for $ 23 trillion , the eurozone at $ 22 trillion , and the united kingdom accounting for $ 9 trillion . chinese shadow banking totals only about $ 2.2 trillion , and the us is still $ 32.2 trillion . shadow banking in china is dominated by lending to higher-risk borrowers , such as local governments , property developers , and small and medium-size enterprises . ultimately , it is funded through retail bank deposits , wealth-management products , and private equity .
in 2009 , obama envisioned a settlement of the conflict through a strong commitment by the international community . in 2011 , he asserted that only the two sides ’ willingness to ensure a successful outcome could ensure that the conflict is successful . clearly , the us can not do much to resolve the conflict . there is no overarching explanation for obama ’s successive middle east failures , but there are several factors worth considering : the rise of asymmetrical conflicts in which the traditional use of force is largely ineffective ; increasingly blurred lines between difficult allies and intransigent adversaries ; and major political differences between a centrist us president and a congress that is dominated more than ever by extreme ideas . but obama himself bears a large share of the blame .
as mit ’s david autor economists have shown , the impact of this in the developed world can be both bad for some workers and good for corporate profits . but it can be extremely good for any developing country that fosters a fruitful balance of inward investment and local entrepreneurship , and uses export-led growth proceeds to invest in infrastructure and skills . china ’s dramatic economic success would have been impossible without labor-driven trade initially . in the future , however , this type of trade will probably become less important . with wages in china now rising rapidly , its labor-cost advantage is diminishing fast .
beijing – just how fast is china ’s population aging and what does a lower proportion of working-age mean for the country ’s economic development ? can – and should – be – anything that is done , particularly to a country ’s “ one child ” policy , to slow the trend ? nowadays , most demographic predictions for china stem from the country ’s overall fertility rate ( tfr ) of 1.8 – unchanged for 20 years . but population-survey data published by the national bureau of statistics suggest that the tfr has been lower than 1.5 for many years , and the united nations ’ newly published report , world fertility patterns 2009 , revises china ’s tfr to 1.4 in 2006 , placing it among low fertility countries . a long period of low fertility means that china ’s working-age population is aging and working-age population growth is slowing .
after the monetarist approach failed , some switched to targeting the inflation rate . but they repeatedly missed their targets . until the currency crashes in the 1990s , emerging and developing countries tended to target their exchange rates . many then also switched to inflation targeting ; but they tend to miss these targets even more often than the advanced countries do . the problem with these monetary-policy approaches is that , while a particular numerical target may be reasonable when it is set , subsequent unexpected developments often make the target hard to live with .
in fact , the dangers that europe now faces as a result of socializing debts far outweigh those posed by a mere potential financial crisis . the lesson to be drawn from the greek debacle is that the eurozone must develop sovereign-debt insolvency procedures as quickly as possible , thereby preventing other sovereigns from becoming creditors through debt mutualization . if national governments in europe want to help one another in a crisis , they should unilaterally provide humanitarian aid , without conditionality and redemption . if you lend to your friend , it will no longer be your friend . unless that wisdom heeded , it will be impossible to hold europe together .
finally , orbán and his supporters maintain their grip on power partly by relying on gerrymandering and voter suppression ( which mostly affects hungarians living in western europe ) . trump ’s republican party uses similar tactics . orbán is a pariah in european circles for having eroded hungarian democracy , yet trump recently welcomed him to the white house , describing him as “ respected all over europe . ” trump and his advisers evidently have learned a great deal from orbán about racist immigration policies , and how to destroy democracy . they are not making america great or even good ; they are making it hungarian .
worse , orbán has destroyed hungary ’s civil service independence and thoroughly politicized the us administration . trump is doing much the same , with the result that the american government now loses around 94 % of its regulatory court cases . at the same time , trump has purged some 17,000 public officials by firing american state department employees , shutting down the government , freezing pay , and creating an atmosphere hostile to honest , open debate about how to formulate and implement policy . by politicizing america ’s administrative agencies , starting to capture the us justice department , and committing himself to making ideological judicial appointments , trump is now far along his quest to destroy the rule of law in america . while orbán has pressed economic pressure to force the closure of hungarian opposition media , trump has described the press as “ the enemy of the people ” and threatened libel actions against critical outlets .
but it is not clear from ayyadurai ’s article that the data were used , and there is no validation of the model . folta offers a brilliant send-up of ayyadurai ’s work . “ if you developed a computer program that integrated internet data to predict the location of munich , and the program told you that it was squarely in the gulf of mexico , right off florida , that munich is in the gulf of mexico , right off florida . ” instead , it means making a mistake , in your program , assumptions , or input data – all testable . to decide not to challenge those data , folta continues , and instead to “ publish a map showing that munich squarely lies in the gulf of mexico , opposing all other data and claiming millions of rather dry germans does not mean that you are brilliant .
in other words : europe faces a fundamental collective-action problem . experience showed that only acute crises can force european leaders to act together in concerted effort . but , in the fall of 2008 , at the height of the global financial crisis , eurozone heads of state did not consider the creation of a common bank-rescue fund . instead , they settled for a package of national measures to stabilize national banking systems by one by one . the sum of the headline commitment was impressive , amounting to 20 % of gdp .
a 17-day war ensued , but the status quo prevailed . again , the two sides fought again in 1971 , though kashmir was not the focus . after the civil war pitting then-west pakistan against the bengali freedom fighters of then-east pakistan fueled a wave of refugees from the east , india began supporting rebel groups there . west pakistan was forced to surrender , and east pakistan became bangladesh ’s independent state . then , in 1999 , another indo-pakistani skirmish over kashmir erupted after pakistan sent troops to the indian-controlled kargil district .
with hiv ’s emergence in the 1980 ’s , which compromises the immune system , tb reemerged , number-one hiv-infected killer . roughly 15 million people suffer from co-infection by hiv and mycobacterium tuberculosis , the primary “ amorphous agent ” in most tb cases . moreover , cle bacillus engages in trench warfare , gaining resistance to conventional antibiotics , and canonical vaccination approaches , as well as delaying diagnosis and determination of drug sensitivity . while pandemics appear suddenly , spread rapidly , raising enormous fears of an impending threat , tb has been spreading slowly but consistently for tens of thousands of years , patiently waiting for new opportunities . treating tb requires a minimum of three drugs administered over at least six months .
the disadvantages of strengthening europe ’s fiscal union further do not end there . continued progress toward fiscal union would , paradoxically , make political union increasingly unlikely for one simple but important reason : france . europe ’s strongest military power by far has thwarted all attempts to pool european armed forces . in 1954 , france ’s national assembly rejected the treaty for the western union ’s defense organization . in 2005 , france rejected the proposed european constitution , which could mark the beginning of the process of political unification .
the limits of inflation-targeting are now clear . central banks now need to reconcile the need to maintain price stability with responsibility – regardless of whether it is legally mandated – to reduce financial vulnerability . this will not be easy , not least because of another new operational burden that has been placed on many central banks : macro-prudential and micro-prudential supervision . micro-prudential supervision , in particular , implies the risk of political pressure , interference with central banks ’ independence , and policy conflicts , all of which could influence financial intermediaries ’ behavior , by encouraging them to assume greater risk . they know that their supervisor has powerful tools at disposal – for example , it can lower borrowing costs , thereby protecting banks ( at least for some time ) – and a strong interest in protecting its reputation .
compared to developed countries , an unusually large number of small , unproductive firms coexist with a small number of large , productive firms . according to standard economic reasoning , this is inefficient . if small , unproductive firms closed down and larger , more productive firms hired their workers , total output , and well-being would rise . this should happen automatically through the invisible hand of competition , because the more productive firms should be able to deliver better product at lower prices , while luring workers with higher wages . so why does n’t this happen routinely in developing countries ?
as china ’s new leadership team emerges , the world ’s attention has focused on president jiang zemin ’s successor . but this is misguided , for perhaps the most significant moment in china ’s recent history of boom and transformation , zhu rongji ’s appointment ( pronounced “ joo rong-jee ” ) as premier of the state council , a position once held by deng xiaoping . given the obvious importance of the post in recent years , mr. zhu ’s replacement may be of even more significance than president jiang zemin ’s departure from center stage . even before becoming premier , mr. zhu , as president of the people ’s central bank of china , was known as the architect of china ’s 8 % annual economic growth in the 1990s and the mastermind of his successful fight against inflation . mr. zhu was china ’s jack welch , the tough-minded , longtime ceo of the american conglomerate general electric – a man celebrated for his candor , his global sophistication , and his insistence on performance .
by contrast , trade among african countries accounts for only about 10-12 % of the continent ’s exports and imports . but , partly because several african countries have escaped the hang-over from the global credit crisis , more investors focus on business opportunities there . by 2050 , the combined gdp of the largest 11 african economies should reach more than $ 13 trillion , surpassing brazil and russia ( but not china or india ) . for some analysts , the emergence of countries like brazil as economic powerhouses stems partly from successful demutualization of their stock exchanges . twenty-three bourses currently operate in africa , and their combined market capitalization soared from $ 245 trillion in 2002 to $ 1 trillion ( 2 % of the world total ) at the end of 2009 – as high as the world ’s fifteenth-largest stock exchange .
some countries suffer when skilled workers emigrate . but the failure to create mechanisms that allow migrants to use their skills creates even more harm . trained doctors should not be driving taxicabs , either . establishing national , regional , and global standards is not easy , but absolutely necessary . • accelerate eligibility for residency rights and citizenship .
heading into the election campaign , fillon may be running on a pro-european platform , as evidenced by his pivot during second-round debates when he suggested that he favors forming a european government . unlike trump and the united kingdom ’s “ leave ” campaign , the national front already has a predictable core constituency , amounting to about one-quarter of the electorate . its old french coalition far right and disaffected working-class voters will not arrive unannounced or defy expectations , as happened in the us and the uk . fillon , for his part , may well muster the same level of support , and may even skim votes from le pen , given that around 8 % of primary voters described themselves as national front backers . what ’s more , political catholicism still appeals to many french voters , and the church itself wants to lure catholics away from the national front and back into its traditionally conservative fold .
generations of poles have participated in charity fundraising drives . for years , poles have ranked owsiak as the country ’s greatest moral authority – ahead of the pope . the state media narrative portraying owsiak and civic platform as guilty parties behind adamowicz ’s murder will only undermine the pis . kaczyński has repeatedly demonstrated his impulsiveness . he pursues power without considering the consequences of his actions .
new york – the latest fast-food hamburger you ate may have cost you next to nothing . but what did the tomato slice on that burger cost the worker who got it there ? almost anywhere in the world – including in the united states – the cost can be shockingly high . appalling wages are just the start . in florida , tomato pickers earn an average of just $ 0.50 for every 32-pound ( 14.5-kilogram ) bucket .
when xi first unveiled his slogan after being singled out as ccp ’s new general secretary , xi defined it in a simple , accessible but nonetheless generic , terms : the “ chinese people dream of living the same good life as all other people in the world . ” xi has said little about the china dream since – and his silence has created considerable trouble . china ’s ever-zealous propaganda officials , evidently fearful of not demonstrating sufficient loyalty and respect for the new party chief , quickly hijacked the slogan ; the “ china dream has replaced the “ china model ” in official political branding . whatever the new administration may be touted as part of its ambitious effort to make the “ china dream ” come true . unfortunately , china propagandists who double down as censors have perverse ability to discredit anything they try to brand .
in fact , they can not , for genetic experimentation on humans is impossible . even in animals whose genes are more easily studied and much better understood , such as drosophila , tiny fruit fly , there is no simple one-to-one correspondence between gene and behavioral trait . instead , a wide variety of genes influence each characteristic . fruit fly genes are surprisingly similar to ours – as they are to those of most other creatures . even many aspects of their behavior resemble our own .
gone are the days when strong esg performance was a nice bonus for investors . pension fiduciary es and fund managers now insist that companies in which they invest in ethical , transparent ways that limit reputational risk . emerging-market investment decisions thus increasingly predate rigorous esg screenings – screenings that , after 34 years of hun sen ’s dictatorial rule , cambodia has little chance of passing . cambodia is currently stripped of its natural resources – including timber , rubber , and sand – for private gain . environmental degradation – especially deforestation – is accelerating and corruption is running rampant , with cash from opaque sources flowing into cambodia ’s casinos , banks , and the real-estate market .
simply put , talk of “ brexit ” exposed europe ’s economic and political fault lines – and there is no going back . robert peston , in his 2005 biography of then-chancellor of the exchequer gordon brown , described brown ’s “ pragmatic view that the eu was a good thing only insofar as it delivered practical benefits to peace and prosperity to britain . ” while the british have been particularly open to the nationalist nature of their support for european integration , other eu members have no less mindful of their domestic interests . in the wake of world war ii , european countries ’ national interests were aligned . nonetheless , efforts to establish political unity through the commonwealth failed in 1954 , highlighting that economic common ground was the key to european integration .
quite a few in europe define the eu as an instrument for holding its own against the united states . they see even the euro as a weapon against the dollar and rejoice when the euro is “ strong ” and the dollar is “ weak ” . the us has found a new “ empire of evil ” in “ terrorist ” states and organizations ; europe has found a new adversary helping it integrate into the united states . this is a dangerous state of affairs for those on either side of the atlantic who believe in the enlightenment ’s values and the constitution of liberty . in terms of basic values , there is such a thing as the west .
he is merely kaczyński ’s “ useful idiot ” in an effort to score a political victory over a man who represents the greatest threat the pis faces . the most saryusz-wolski can realistically hope for is some government position in poland . perhaps he will replace the widely criticized foreign minister , witold waszczykowski . most pis , for its part , can hope for is that some of the country ’s coalition ( those ruled by the social democrats , for example ) will propose another alternative to tusk , whom eu member states elect to avoid escalating the conflict with poland . in that case , tusk would most likely return to domestic politics , where a ninth victory against pis would be kaczyński ’s punishment .
now the eu is again in irish stew , and it is now in the irish stew . this time , however , it is difficult to see a way out that offers a second referendum . renegotiating the treaty is out of the question , because doing so would open a pandora ’s box of demands from everyone else . so the problem lies with the irish . i can not help but recall the situation in the summer of 1992 , when a small majority of danish voters rejected the maastricht treaty .
but experience around the world suggests that this is a risky outlook . even were banks healthy , deleveraging processes , and associated wealth losses mean that more likely than not , the economy will be weak . and a weak economy means more likely than not , more bank losses . the problems are not limited to the us . other countries ( like spain ) have their own real-estate crises .
nonetheless , even as it has increased its capacity to provide military force for the un , nato , or eu operations , germany has made it clear that it does not view itself as a military power . german policymakers continue to believe that political and economic means of influence are more effective than violence , implying further development of soft-power tools , including digital diplomacy . they are also eager to develop more “ networked ” national and european foreign policies that account for activities and possible contributions by non-state actors . for the time being , germany ’s top foreign-policy priorities are likely to remain the eu and the continent ’s eastern and southern neighbors – from which immediate security risks emanate most . this would be a wise choice .
if greece and other countries are to ensure their citizens ’ health and prosperity in decades to come , they will have to find ways to prevent current economic activity from increasing an already unsustainable burden of greek debt . for that to happen , greece must come to be viewed as valuable endowments to manage wisely . the mediterranean region ’s unique , breathtaking natural capital is one of its greatest assets – the reason why more than 200 million tourists flock to the region each year , feeding the region ’s economy . overusing resources , or even failing to manage them carefully , inevitably saps the region ’s economic strength . of course , countries with ecological deficits can often fill part of the gap through global trade – if they can pay for the necessary imports .
but she must persuasively outline practical strategies to resolve south korea ’s most serious problems , including high unemployment , worsening educational performance , and north korea ’s nuclear weapons program . park once pledged to provide loans to working-class families from elementary school to college years , while contending that local universities should be empowered to have more autonomy . she favors engagement policy , and the six-party talks so as to resolve the nuclear woes . come election-day presidential election in 2012 , south korean voters pick a candidate who embodies pragmatism and centrism over a partisan or ideologue . park ’s success will ultimately depend on her campaign ’s effectiveness in further defining her character along those lines .
a fiscal compact like the one recently approved is helpful to anchor expectations of future adjustment , but only if the new system is flexible enough to be politically credible . up-front gradualism must be the name of the game . and adjustment must wedded itself to a growth strategy . revenues will grow consistently only if the tax base – that is , the economy – grows . and that growth requires higher public investment in infrastructure and human capital .
second , the international monetary fund , under the g-20 ’s “ peer assessment process , ” has suggested that the united states cut its fiscal deficit by 3 % of gdp more than it has planned – more than $ 400 billion in additional cuts per year . the imf believes that current fiscal plans will deter america ’s economic growth . more recently , the european central bank reiterated its position that serious fiscal consolidation would generate enough private-sector confidence that the gains in spending by households and businesses would more than offset lower spending by governments . the oecd , however , cautions governments not to consolidate too rapidly in a sluggish global recovery . america ’s major trading partners want the us to grow and buy more of its exports .
i admit that i view communism 's heritage with more skepticism . totalitarian pressure did indeed form exceptional people like john paul ii and alexander solzhenitsyn , people for whom religious faith bought freedom from mendacity and solitude . but it did the same for andrei sakharov and vaclav havel , who defended their supreme values with reference to and lay humanism in language . for most people , however , life under totalitarian dictatorship was not ennobling ; rather , it was the daily immersion of lies , spiritual depravity , and material corruption . this is why postcommunist societies show no nobility or disinterested stedness that seriously contrasts with the west .
the evidence makes clear that direct policies are far more effective . the world bank ’s climate focus is also at odds with what the world ’s poorest citizens want . when the united nations asked almost ten million people around the world to list their priorities , it emphasized better education and health care , less corruption , more jobs , and affordable food . global warming came last on 16 issues . under kim , the bank propagated the simplistic idea that fossil fuels are always damaging , coal must be forbidden , and “ climate aid ” is the solution .
consider the most recent figures for 2014 from the international energy agency ’s 2016 energy statistics . the world ’s co2 emissions from energy and industry averaged 4.5 tons per person ( 32.4 billion tons of tons per 7.2 billion people in the iea tabulation ) , while american emissions were almost four times that level , 16.2 tons per person ( 5.2 billion tons for 320 million people ) . trump carries on the paris agreement ’s supposed bias in favor of india , but fails to acknowledge that india ’s per capita emissions are 1.6 tons , just one-tenth the american level . trump also bemoans america ’s contributions to the green climate fund ( and sneers at the name of some reason as well ) . he complains that the us has already given more than $ 1 billion without explaining to the american people and the world that $ 1 billion is a contribution of $ 3.08 per american .
true , un secretary general ban ki moon can make speeches , convene meetings , and propose actions , but his role is more secretary general than general . sometimes likened to a “ secular pope , ” the un secretary general can wield soft power of persuasion but little hard economic or military power . what hard power the un must be pleading and borrowed from member states . and when they can not agree on a course of action , the organization to operate is difficult . as one wag put it , “ we have met the un ! ”
perhaps for this reason , there has been talk of a meeting in astana between presidents from russia and france , america ’s secretary of state , and presidents of armenia and azerbaijan . that prospect holds both great opportunities and serious risks . there is reason that no such meeting has been held in the 20 years of conflict . a meeting of presidents , after all , is the ultimate negotiating forum , and must lead to genuine , sustainable success . otherwise , no amount of negotiation can help set the caucasus straight – powerfully undermining key restraint preventing the two sides from trying again to achieve military solutions .
governments in the americas and europe find themselves rough , uncharted waters . if the problem were simply a matter of gross violations by the organization of american states ’ democratic charter – convincingly certified by oas secretary general luis almagro – solutions measured in months or years could be considered . but venezuela is not just a political issue ; it is a humanitarian catastrophe of unprecedented proportions . true , venezuelan president nicolás maduro is ruling unconstitutionally , relying on emergency decrees and all-powerful , one-party , illegally established constituent assembly , while ignoring the elected national assembly and banning opposition political parties . but the impact of his misrule is such that venezuelans are dying from starvation , the health-care system has collapsed , and violence and contagious diseases are now practically out of control .
but the pace at which the political world embraces social media has accelerated dramatically in the past year . aside from the bjp ’s wholesale acceptance of twitter – modi ’s network allies include the party ’s parliamentary leader , sushma swaraj , and a coterie of organized supporters – prominent indian politicians from all parties have leapt . a day after sworn in as india ’s president , pranab mukherjee announced that he would open facebook accounts to receive and respond to questions about the public . west bengal ’s chief minister , mamata banerjee , is running a popular and widely read web site that traditional media outlets mine daily . similarly , omar abdullah , the youthful chief minister of jammu and kashmir , regularly interacts on twitter , and his much older rajasthan and kerala counterparts , ashok gehlot and oommen chandy , respectively , have opened facebook accounts just as well .
related to this is the fact that today ’s economic development depends less on a particular country and more on regional integration , which can serve to avoid the negative effects of those financial speculations boosted by globalization . so the world needs , in its regions , to facilitate integration based on universal economic democratization : currency compatibility , free trade , shared legal rules , and most common will to fix the rules of the game according to the region ’s entire interests . only such equal cooperation can secure a solid political foundation for integration . so long as a country is subordinated to the uncontrollable force of globalization , its future is in foreign hands . but , in agreeing to open up regional economies to imports , the poor and developing countries must be allowed to some means to protect their new industries .
when egyptians rose up against mubarak in january , they faced arms paid for borrowed money . is it fair to expect egyptians to continue paying for their previous repression and impoverishment at mubarak ’s hands and his cronies ? because this money clearly benefited mubarak but not his people , should it not be mubarak , rather than his victims , who is held accountable for it ? the type of regime mubarak ran was clear for many years . a prudent lender was supposed to consider these facts before making loans .
perhaps those are ideas en vogue in korea as it thinks of possible unification , but even hard to accomplish when the time comes . claims of alternative strategies must therefore be set at somewhat lower levels – say , the initial exchange rate that might have been chosen to make east germany a low wage country . even that is the dream since the face of high unemployment , east german wages have increased substantially every year relative to west germany . at a more depreciated conversion rate , we would simply have had a more rapid rate of wage inflation . one alternative strategy , remotely conceivable , is that west germany would have foreseen the failure of the experiment before embarking on it .
new businesses in the service sector – 3.6 million of which were started just last year – are generating incremental employment , thanks partly to a new streamlined licensing framework . and online platforms are facilitating increased consumption , while expanding market access and financing for smaller firms . rather than pursuing additional fiscal and monetary stimulus , china ’s leaders should aim to accelerate and build on these trends . public investment is high enough ; expanding it now would shift the composition of aggregate demand in the wrong direction . and , with the corporate sector already over-leveraged , broad-based credit expansion is not safe .
it would be unimaginable for nato heads of state to go ahead with their planned leadership summit in warsaw in june if poland remains mired in its constitutional crisis , with the government disregarding the rule of law and the opinion of a respected international body . hungarians and poles must be reminded that russian president vladimir putin is actively trying to divide and weaken the eu and nato . if europe is to face down aggression from the kremlin , it is essential that poland and hungary adhere to these groups ’ fundamental values and principles . but it also needs to be seen that the eu itself is developing a more comprehensive mechanism for safeguarding the rule of law within the union . the eu has mechanisms to regulate economic policies , safeguard the environment , and police the single market .
many fear , with good reason , that fossil-fuel interests will exploit solar geoengineering to oppose emissions cuts . but most researchers are not driven by such interests . the vast majority of those researching solar geoengineering , or advocating for its inclusion in climate-policy debates , also support much stronger action to reduce emissions . still , it is very likely that big fossil-fuel companies – from multinational energy companies to coal-dependent regions – will eventually use geoengineering to fight emissions restrictions . but that risk is not enough reason to abandon or suppress research on solar geoengineering .
to achieve this , the us would have had to subordinate its power to the goal of shaping the new order , much as it did at the close of world war ii in 1945 . instead , america succumbed to the temptation of unilateralism . national greatness for world power always arises from its ability to shape the world . if great powers forget this or lose the ability to act accordingly , it begins to decline . it is almost tempting to think that america ’s great cold war adversary , the soviet union , with its sudden disappearance 15 years ago this month , left its own trojan horse for america – the poisoned gift of unilateralism .
for their part , industrialized economies must do more to support african oil industries , and ensure that the adverse effects of oil production are mitigated . for such strategies to work , however , the oil industry must get on board . this means engaging sincerely with african governments to figure out how best to support national agendas for development and diversification . the upcoming abu dhabi international petroleum exhibition and conference , hosted by abu dhabi national petroleum company abu dhabi , has hosted the abu dhabi national petroleum company – which barkindo , as well as numerous african energy ministers and oil-industry leaders – is an ideal opportunity to initiate such a process . working with other stakeholders , campaigners for a sustainable , and just transition can also achieve something more : allowing carbon energy to have a positive impact on economies that have so far experienced only the adverse effects of the twentieth century ’s oil-backed development .
economic development in the gaza strip was limited under egyptian rule , with the region suffering the burden of absorbing palestinian refugees fleeing fighting in the southern territories of mandatory palestine , which would later become israel . palestinians ’ access to egypt was restricted , and much of gaza ’s largely unskilled labor force was dependent on the un relief administration , which built and maintained local refugee camps . the 1967 war placed all mandatory palestine ( as did sinai and the golan heights ) under israeli military occupation . nevertheless , though one-third of the west bank was closed to palestinians to make room for a few thousand jewish settlers , only 10 % of its predominantly rural population was refugees , many owned their land , and a variety of jobs were available . by contrast , 70 % of gaza ’s population comprised refugees living in difficult conditions in refugee camps scores and largely depended on work in israel .
the second draft of history is often written by keynesian people themselves . after world war ii , winston churchill confidently argued that history would treat him kindly , because “ i propose writing that history . ” when the financial crisis erupted , the same thinking may have crossed the minds of hank paulson , ben bernanke , and tim geithner , who was us treasury secretary , chairman of the federal reserve bank and president of new york fed chair , respectively . all three published lengthy memoirs explaining why they did , and did not , what they did and did not do – inevitably , with a degree of self-justification in each case . now , a decade later , the three co-authored what might be described as a version of 2.1 that episode ’s history .
the goal was not to address the problems they faced directly , but to induce new , more efficient activities that would help to turn debt into assets and maximize the economy ’s capacity . in this sense , east asian economies embraced the process of “ creative destruction ” described by the austrian economist joseph schumpeter , whereby the economic structure is constantly revolutionized from within . moreover , by implementing incremental reforms that facilitate – and even encourage – the replacement of old , inefficient sources of growth with new , more dynamic ones , they expedited this process . for example , in the 1980s , china ’s productivity-enhancing agricultural reforms spurred partly growth in the non-agricultural sector , a result of policies aimed at stimulating township and village enterprises . similarly , in the 1990s , china addressed the buildup of bad debt and unfinished construction projects – the result of state-owned enterprises ’ chronic loss-making and excessive property investment , respectively – by implementing the institutional reforms that stimulated growth in more dynamic sectors , thereby offsetting soes ’ declining return on capital .
brussels – as protests over china ’s crackdown in tibet and the debate over kosovo ’s unilateral declaration of independence continue to fester , the injustice of taiwan ’s ongoing international isolation has barely stirred a flicker of interest , despite taiwan ’s recent presidential election and a referendum on united nations membership . this neglect is not only shortsighted ; it may also prove dangerous . this seeming double standard can be explained partly by a sense of guilt : the west , for the most part , embraced kosovo ’s independence in an effort to assuage its own culpability for not preventing slobodan milosevic ’s campaign of ethnic cleansing there . similarly , much of the world is protesting in the name of tibet , because countless millions have witnessed china ’s brutal suppression of tibetan culture . on the other hand , taiwan does not capture our attention , because it is stable and prosperous economically .
many are now eagerly offering their views as to whether the uk should look again at the eu ’s “ norway model ” of relations , or some other scheme that maintains uk participation in the single market . whatever the option , it is now clear that britain needs a policy that can command broad and genuine support . a second change for the better would be , i hope , less controversial : reducing power bestowed in the uk on unelected special advisers or spads , who have become dominant figures in all government departments . during my 17-month experience as minister , i became convinced that the spads ’ excessive power – and haughty approach – undermines the uk ’s excellent civil service , just as elected and appointed ministers are . may ’s two leading spads , fiona hill , and nick timothy geithner took this danger to worrying levels .
indeed , many of the ingredients used to make nanomaterials are currently known to present risks to human health . an encouraging trend is that the methods used to produce nanomaterials often become “ greener ” as they move from laboratory to industrial production . setting aside the issue of nanomaterials ’ toxicity , preliminary results suggest that fabricating nanomaterials entails risks that are less than or comparable to those associated with many current industrial activities . it would be naïve to imagine that nanotechnology develops without risks to our health and environment . while attempting to halt the development of the “ “ “ “ have-nots ” technologies would be as irresponsible as it is unrealistic , responsible development of these technologies demands vigilance and social commitment .
globally , human trafficking generates average annual profits of $ 150 billion , of which two-thirds ( $ 99 billion ) come from forced sexual exploitation . with the rapid growth of digital platforms threatening to make child sex trafficking even more lucrative , the world must take urgent , coordinated action to combat this appalling crime . today , almost 4.5 billion people have access to the internet , and around one in three internet users is under age 18 . the unregulated online world is therefore fertile ground for reaping enormous gains from child sex trafficking . would-be traffickers need only laptop or high-speed internet connectivity .
we all owe them to this . the euro has experienced a hard but promising start . it should come as no surprise that the euro has started to slide against the dollar , considering the differences in america ’s economic performance . and it should come as no surprise that markets have tested europe ’s willingness to keep quiet where monetary affairs are concerned . recent intervention and support from america and japan have shown that the euro is here to stay , and that markets believe in its success .
people had learned that it pays to buy dips . now that internet fever has abated , we hear that “ fundamentals ” are reasserting themselves . but this view is as much a half-truth as the previous notion that the boom would last forever because the internet economy had created new fundamentals . indeed , the internet boom/bust cycle brings into question prevailing economic theories about financial markets . what should now be clear is that so-called fundamentals that supposedly determine stock prices are not independently given .
palo alto – since the sixteenth-century science of toxicology was developed , its guiding principle has been that “ dose makes poison . ” it is a rule that applies to the medicines used by patients worldwide many billions of times a day . the right dose of aspirin can be therapeutic godsend , but consuming too much can be lethal . the principle even applies to foods : large amounts of the “ axis of the monetarist ” or licorice are notoriously toxic . the risk that substance poses broadly depends on two factors : its inherent capacity to inflict harm and one ’s exposure to it .
given libya ’s lack of democratic experience , some view this as a likely outcome in the post-qaddafi era . but libya is not the only country that has struggled to move from dictatorship to democracy with weak institutions and strong tribal identities . albania , mongolia , and india have successfully passed more complicated tests – and offer some useful lessons in democratic transitions under unfavorable conditions . the fourth scenario is partition , with the old three-province , ottoman-style setup commonly mentioned : cyrenaica ( east ) , fezzan ( south ) , and tripolitania ( west ) . cyrenaica is qaddafi-free , tripolitania is not , and fezzan has not fully joined the revolution .
they propose tax cuts equal to 5 % of gdp for 3-4 years in all eurozone countries , financed by very long-term public debt , all of which the ecb should buy . they argue that ecb quantitative easing alone , with no fiscal relaxation , would be ineffective . giavazzi and tabellini ’s proposals may entail too large a stimulus . but they also highlight a crucial question : how will quantitative easing stimulate the economy ? the bank of england has presented qe as a purely monetary policy tool that sustains economic growth in the face of necessary and desirable fiscal consolidation .
never mind that eye-popping growth projections in representative paul ryan ’s budget plan are entirely implausible ; politically , these projections matter , because , without them , full sting from ryan ’s proposed medicare cuts would be readily apparent . standard & poor ’s received some justified criticism for the analysis behind its recent decision to downgrade america ’s government debt ; after all , there was little economic news that could explain the move ’s timing . but s & p ’s assessment of the political situation is on target : by creating dysfunctional paralysis at the heart of the government , the tea party has shown itself willing to impose dramatic costs on the broader economy and ensure significantly slower growth . confrontation and brinkmanship have become america ’s new watchwords in american politics , even as america ’s government ’s legal ability to service its debts is on the line , owing to tea party ideological rigidity . and the tone of political debate , not surprisingly , has become much nastier .
for his part , trump accepted xi ’s invitation to visit china soon . on trade , trump and xi agreed to a 100-day plan for discussions on reducing america ’s trade deficit with china . moreover , the us accepted china ’s proposal to revamp the framework for bilateral engagement by creating the us-china comprehensive dialogue , consisting of four sub-dialogues : diplomacy and security , economic issues , law enforcement , and cybersecurity , and social and cultural affairs . understanding xi and trump reflected a sober acknowledgement of domestic and international risks their countries face . both seemed to recognize that a stable us-china relationship is necessary to enable them to focus on their respective challenges .
the uae and qatar have already instituted compulsory military service for adult males . and kuwait is considering following in jordan ’s footsteps by reintroducing conscription , which is already in place in most sunni states ( and iran ) . against this backdrop , efforts to tame deep-seated sunni-shia rivalry ( by , say , improving relations between saudi arabia and iran ) should not be taken a priority , though undoubtedly important , over a strategy to address sectarianism plaguing the sunni belt . that strategy must center on federalism . for example , federalism was introduced in somalia , when the north-south rift emerged , it probably would not have ended up as a failed state .
the left has failed to recognize that israeli elections are not strictly political affairs ; they are an expression of ongoing kulturkampf in an ethnically kaleidoscopic society . israeli elections are in some ways a tribal affair ; people vote on memories , insults , religious sensibilities , and group grievances . the israeli right ’s current political dominance feeds a widespread yearning for jewish roots , deep-seated fear of arabs , and uncompromising mistrust of a “ world , ” the so-called international community , with which jews have centuries-old disputes . the left ’s yearning for peace is perceived as naive , if not exercise in political lunacy ( and in either case an unpardonable betrayal of jewish identity ) . netanyahu himself positioned himself as a magnet for fears and complexes of a broad array of aggrieved voters , including russian immigrants , orthodox jews , most traditionalist israelis , and religious settlers .
moreover , among the new jobs that will be created will be many fields like education and health care , where women have traditionally thrived . mgi research estimates that more than 100 million jobs could be created over the next 10-15 years as health care and education needs to grow . it is not yet clear exactly how automation will affect women ’s employment . but there is no doubt that protecting – and even enhancing – women ’s job and income prospects will require upgrading their skills , so that they can seize the new and changing opportunities created by the ongoing digital revolution . women ’s success in e-commerce attests to the power of digital technologies to level the playing field of economic playing field , to the benefit of individual women , their communities , and societies , and to the global economy .
russia conquered muslim territories in the volga-ural region , caucasus and central asia , and brutally suppressed any opposition . after loyalty , however , the government adopted a more pragmatic policy . until the mid 19th century , sedentary muslim elites co-opted into an imperial aristocracy just as in the 20th century , national communist elites were absorbed into soviet nomenclatura . indeed , russia ’s contacts with the muslim world go back thousands of years , rooted in a tradition of tolerance . with a few short-lived exceptions , russia ’s imperial government did not support orthodox evangelism .
hong kong has experienced an unprecedented 17 weeks of mostly peaceful demonstrations ( occasional episodes of violence have attracted disproportionate media attention ) . the trigger was the proposed extradition law , which many feared would extend the mainland ’s reach into hong kong ’s judicial system . the absence of any plan to bring together various protest groups , and hong kong ’s government , has become a source of growing concern . such a plan would need at least two things . first , all parties ( including china ’s central government in this case ) need to recommit to the “ one country , two systems ” framework .
to address this distortion head on , and to provide clarity about how to allocate funds , the egf should focus its limited funds on two simple , active labor-market programs : wage insurance and the mobility allowance . wage insurance could offer workers whose pay was cut after displacement compensation for up to two years , amounting to half the difference between old and new wages . the mobility allowance could offer those moving for a new job lump-sum payment of two months ’ gross pay in previous work , or four months ’ pay for cross-border moves . the very simplicity of such a scheme will likely ensure high visibility and reasonable take-up rates . the downside of such a focused approach is also clear : the margin of choice for eu members about how egf funds are to be spent in their home countries would be minimal .
asia ’s share was 28 % ( after including japan ) . but kharas ’s projections suggest that asia will account for two-thirds of the world ’s middle class by 2030 . in other words , asia will displace not just the west , but even other emerging regions . this is the real business opportunity , and it is the us that is now emerging . to be sure , asia ’s rise to the middle class is not the only change that we should expect .
populist parties , on both the far right and the far left , gain electoral traction . some , such as france ’s national front , oppose their country ’s eurozone membership ; others , such as podemos in spain , do not . nonetheless , the challenge these new parties pose to europe could prove to be extremely disruptive . a greek exit from the eurozone , together with financial and political turmoil inside greece , would be perceived as a major defeat for european integration – especially after the laborious efforts made to hold together the monetary union and , with it , the european dream . such an outcome would be even disheartening , given the tragic terrorist attacks in paris , and after unity marches in france and across the continent rekindled a long-fading sense of european solidarity .
taken together , all of these shortcomings cast serious doubt on the eu ’s claim to be at the forefront of the debate over a fundamental reshaping of global economic governance . european governments repeat the mantra of “ effective multilateralism , ” but they seem to have no comprehensive strategy for translating this into coherent policy . indeed , when europeans think about reforming global governance , they limit themselves to the numbers of seats and voting weights in international bodies . european governments are only now reluctantly accepting the need to scale back their over-representation in multilateral bodies , recognizing that it undermines rather than enhances the eu ’s overall influence by pushing other powers into separate arrangements . but , while deliberation is taking place on how much europe should retreat from its historical domination of multilateral bodies , there is little vision beyond this .
são paulo – a decades-old legal fight between consumers and financial institutions over the impact of brazil ’s economic policies in the 1980s and 1990s is nearing a conclusion . in december , lawyers representing claimants presented brazil ’s supreme federal court with a request to ratify a settlement reached with the banks . if the court approves the deal , the settlement would place billions of reals into savers ’ pockets . but more than a long-awaited payday for some one million claimants , court-ordered restitution would also mark the official end of brazil ’s seemingly endless war on hyperinflation . during the late 1980s and early 1990s , the brazilian government struggled to stabilize the country ’s economy and currency .
today , women dominate african agriculture , the continent ’s most important industries . but this has not translated into greater control of finance . one measure of this deficiency is borrowing rates ; in east africa , where my organization works , women borrow 13 % less money for farm-related activities than men do . illiteracy , limited land ownership , and agency restrictions and mobility all conspire to reduce rural women ’s access to farm financing . these barriers have had a dramatic impact on social and economic progress .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the modi government ’s supporters tout a slew of new repressive legislation – including the criminalization of talaq-e-biddat , the muslim practice of “ instant divorce ” – as a display of attrition .
liquidity injections and low interest rates have microeconomic effects that have received little attention : they lower the cost of capital vis-à-vis labor costs , which causes a relative decline in demand for labor . this is very likely to exacerbate the unemployment problem ; it is certainly not mitigating it . one solution is to channel part of the liquidity injections toward countering this factor-cost asymmetry . thus , for every $ 100 of new liquidity , the us could use $ 60 to purchase assets , and the remainder to give firms a marginal job-creation subsidy , which could be especially efficient in economies with flexible labor markets that enable short-term hiring . even if the employment subsidy were offered only for , say , one year , firms would be tempted to use more labor during this time .
what is clear is that the experience of countries that have implemented the treaty has not been particularly positive unless those countries have high tolerance for bureaucratic regulatory regimes that stifle innovation and development in the name of lofty aspirations . the seed treaty is cut from the same anti-capitalist , anti-science , anti-innovation cloth as the cbd convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) . it also mirrors flagrantly unscientific , anti-genetic-engineering cartagena protocol on biosafety to the cbd . and it has much in common with the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on accountability and redress to the cartagena protocol – yet another anti-genetic-engineering screed that accomplishes little except frighten potential entrepreneurs from agricultural biotechnology . it is overwrought , confusing , and complex – in short , inimical to innovations that could benefit the world ’s poor .
“ there is , ” he wrote in an echo of today ’s debates on globalization , “ a certain situation capitalistically disorganized economies , in which the higher culture is not victorious but rather loses in the existential struggle with lower cultures . ” in the center – beleaguered by the anti-global reactions of the left and the right – the liberal commercial elite saw the products of economic opening or globalization as wholly beneficial . instead of a two component split between left and right , there was thus a triple divide , between anti-globalization conservatives , pro-globalization liberals , and re-distributionist leftists . when the extremes of the political spectrum became radicalized , as they did in the interwar period – the anti-international right moved to fascism , the left to communism – democratic politics became paralyzed . for much of the post-1945 period , these divisions disappeared as the right and left fought battles for redistribution within national economies .
the chinese leadership ’s penchant for secretiveness is proverbial . but the veil that exists over how omnipotent party makes important decisions is being lifted somewhat because a volume of unique material about behind-the-scenes events surrounding the infamous tiananmen massacre of 1989 is being published this month . the materials contained in that book , which i brought out of china and decided to make public , consist of hundreds of documents , including minutes and transcripts of meetings at which the people ’s republic ’s most important leaders were lobbying on how to manage the tiananmen demonstrations ; key speeches ; notes on crucial telephone conversations among leaders ; classified reports from security agencies ; and dispatches from the police and the military . taken as a whole , these documents provide a rare glimpse into china ’s modus operandi . as witness and participant in tiananmen events , and as someone with access to the historical archive , i felt my duty to publish this record of decisions that lay behind what happened .
slovakia , for example , was a dreary , oppressive , joyless place where mediocre party hacks set the tone , and creativity was stifled under a blanket of enforced conformism . rock and roll were seen as a noxious form of capitalist decadence . a local rock band named plastic people of the universe performing in english was arrested in the late 1970s for “ organized disturbance of peace . ” recordings by rolling stones and other western groups were banned . and yet records were smuggled into slovakia and other eastern european countries , where they treasured young rock fans , including dissident playwright václav havel , who would later become the country ’s president .
the debt-ceiling absolutists grossly underestimate the massive adjustment costs of an self-imposed “ sudden stop ” in debt finance . such costs are precisely why the “ win-win ” countries like greece face massive social and economic displacement when financial markets lose confidence and capital flows suddenly dry up . there is , of course , an appealing logic to say that governments should have to balance their budgets just like the rest of the us ; unfortunately , this is not so simple . typically , governments have myriad ongoing spending commitments related to basic services such as national defense , infrastructure projects , education and health care , not to mention retirees . no government can simply walk away from these responsibilities overnight .
ironically , this perception brings israel some rather unlikely partners . president hosni mubarak of egypt claims that shiites are “ always loyal to iran , ” while king abdullah of jordan coined the axiom of a rising “ shiite crescent . ” this “ rise of shiites ” and the resulting “ sunni divide ” is alleged to be creating an ever widening chasm in the region . while this perception may persuade at first glance , it is ultimately based on generalizations that reveal more about its advocates than actual realities on the ground . take iraq , where the looming “ shia crescent ” is often blamed for much of the chaos .
worse , the consultancy mackenzie finds that the renewables boom translated into just 2 % of global energy demand . as matters stand , coal , oil , and gas could still supply 85 % of primary energy by 2040 , down only slightly from 90 % today . to complete the shift away from fossil fuels will require drilling to the core of the global economy . it does not help that china funneled at least $ 1 billion in “ green ” financing to coal-related projects in the first half of this year . companies can not keep producing oil , gas , and internal combustion engines while gradually shifting to cleaner technologies ; they need clean disruption .
furthermore , with american support , colombia ’s armed forces have become stronger , owing to the modernization of military equipment and doctrine , the rise of soldiers , and improved training . as a result , armed conflict has become increasingly costly for the farc rebels . indeed , unlike in 2002 , when the farc could make impossible demands on the government , today ’s environment favors the state , forcing the rebels to keep demands realistic . the farc is unlikely to stage a media spectacle at meetings in norway and cuba . the agenda will focus on ending the conflict without endless discussion of theoretical or doctrinaire questions .
yes , this is a volatile data series , because it rises and falls with the usual course of events . but it is also another area where obama set the bar high during his two terms . most positive , the us can say about trump ’s first year of economic policymaking is that he has not delivered on his campaign promise to disrupt trade . the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) remains intact , as do trade relations with china and other major american partners . the administration did impose tariffs in january on solar panels and washing machines , but those are small relative to the size of the us economy .
all these books are variations of zion protocols by the elders , the russian forgery first published in 1903 , which japanese came across after defeating czar czar general forces in 1905 . the chinese picked up many modern western ideas from japan . perhaps this is how jewish conspiracy theories were passed on just as well . but southeast asians are not immune to this kind of nonsense , either . malaysia ’s former prime minister , mahathir bin mohammed , has said that “ jews rule the world through proxy rule . ”
it needs not just closer economic ties , but also closer political ties . those running a strong emergency financing mechanism will have to be held strongly accountable . they will have to answer to a strong european parliament . german chancellor angela merkel ’s constituents hate bailouts because they know that they are bailing out . they oppose anything that smacks of european political integration .
new york – attempting to revive the world economy while simultaneously responding to the global climate crisis has raised knotty questions : are statistics giving us the right “ signals ” about what to do ? in our performance-oriented world , measurement issues have taken on heightened significance : what we measure affects what we do . if we have poor measures , what we strive to do ( say , gdp growth ) may actually contribute to worsening living standards . we may also be confronted with false choices , seeing trade-offs between output and environmental protection that do not exist . a better measure of economic performance , by contrast , might show that steps taken to improve the environment are good for the economy .
bangkok – a friend recently asked a seemingly naïve question : “ what is money ? how do i know that i can trust that it is worth what it says it is worth ? ” we learn in introductory economics that money is a medium of exchange . but why do we accept that ? banknotes are just pieces of paper with multiple attached .
of course , the idea of abolishing borders within europe holds great symbolic significance and appeal . but sometimes even sacred cows need to be slaughtered . with the refugee crisis turning schengen into a threat to the eu ’s credibility as a collective entity and its national governments ’ ability to maintain order and the rule of law , that time is now . when it was first created in 1985 , schengen included just five countries ( belgium , france , luxembourg , the netherlands , and west germany ) . membership has since ballooned to include 22 of the eu ’s 28 member countries – with four of those left out ( bulgaria , croatia , cyprus , and romania ) due to join in the future – plus four non-eu members ( norway , iceland , switzerland , switzerland , and liechtenstein ) .
no doubt , putin is now likely to behave like a peacemaker . he is not interested in reinforcing the power of his kremlin aides . he also realizes that big business is crucially important for russia ’s modernization . he simply wants the oligarchs to stick to his sphere of activity and leave politics to him . but the problem will not go away .
the danger now is that political uncertainty in germany , france , italy , and the uk will create an opening for populists and self-declared “ illiberal ” democrats such as hungarian prime minister viktor orbán to build more walls ( physically as with metaphorically ) and mobilize the ghosts of nationalism . moreover , europe ’s external environment has become more dangerous . though the world ’s attention is currently fixed on the risks of an escalating sino-american trade war , the threat of an equally destructive transatlantic conflict can not be ignored . trump seems genuinely to believe that german cars in new york city ’s streets pose a threat to us national security . should he wake up to one morning and decide to impose heavy import tariffs on european cars , things could get very ugly , very fast .
there is a trade-off between competition and stability , and it is the case for stability . indeed , greater competitive pressure can increase the fragility of banks ’ balance sheets , making investors more prone to panics . it can also erode the charter value of institutions . a bank with thin margins and limited liability has little to lose , and will tend to gamble – a tendency that is exacerbated by deposit insurance and too-big-to-fail policies . the result will be more incentive to assume risk .
vaccines have already eradicated smallpox , dramatically reducing child deaths and diseases associated with measles , diphtheria , and tetanus . yet , sadly , a child still dies every 20 seconds from diseases like pneumonia , which can be prevented by vaccines . most live in poor and remote communities that still lack access to basic vaccines that are universally available in better-off countries . this is one reason why a child born in a high-income country is 18 times less likely than a child born in a low-income country to die before reaching age five . fortunately , the world is taking action .
as the pioneering child psychologist jean piaget has shown , children in the early stages of development go through a phase of egocentrism : they naturally focus on their own needs . a child might snatch another child ’s toy , break it , and then deny that it has done so . rather than admit to breaking the rules , they lie to reconcile inconsistency . to the mind of the child , he is not wrong ; the world is simply misinformed . and because the child believes that everyone operates under his particular definitions of right and wrong , he can not understand that someone else might see things differently .
it is this difference , more than anything else , that sets the two economies apart . what can india do to close the gap ? its biggest shortcoming is its lack of roads , bridges , ports , and other infrastructure , where the contrast with china is just stunning . if your products can not get to the global economy , you can not conquer it . over the last five years , china has multiplied its highway system five-fold .
critical thought is increasingly dismissed as an elitist endeavor , while unaccountable social media , “ fake news , ” and “ alternative facts ” dominate public discourse . in an environment of ignorance , populist politicians are making willing prey to those who feel ignored . but because those politicians are so appealing to so many , they no less easily swayed voters , they must be scrutinized . the question is whether a brand of politics that threatens liberal democracy can also be reformulated to save it . there are two kinds of populists today : exploitative and enlightened .
the last feature that stands out in this period of historically sluggish productivity growth is weak demand . we know from corporate decision-makers that demand is crucial to investment . for example , an mgi survey conducted last year found that 47 % of companies increasing their investment budgets were doing so because of increased demand or demand expectations . across industries , the slow recovery in demand following the financial crisis was a key factor holding back investment . the crisis heightened uncertainty about the future direction of consumer and investment demand .
here is a country that has long cherished its “ exceptionalism ” from ordinary rules of market economics , foggy view that rejects both central planning and free markets , and claims that they offer well-balanced middle ground . the french are not interested in articulating their vision of a “ third way , ” for they remain deeply convinced that the state has a key role to play in steering markets to defend “ higher ” values from single-minded pursuit of materialism . this view , propagated since world war ii by a quasi-marxist intelligentsia , is so ingrained that the french do not even bother to understand how markets operate . they look to economics as an ideological battleground where all views can be entertained without being confronted with logic , much less with facts . yet facts have hit hard .
health care and social security already consume half of america ’s federal budget , up from one-sixth in 1965 , and these outlays relative to gdp are projected to more than double by 2040 . with no change of course , programs ’ “ trust fund ” balances will be depleted by the 2030s . avoiding that outcome will require us political leaders to constrain the growth of entitlement spending and bolster support for middle-income individuals . while social security and medicare remain important to ensuring retirement wellbeing , their role must be updated to suit today ’s needs . to ensure , for example , that no one who has worked for 30 or more years will live in poverty in old age , social security needs a higher minimum benefit for lower-income workers , with more affluent seniors seeing less growth in benefits over time .
new york – president george w. bush has rightly called pakistan ’s recent national and provincial elections “ a victory for [ its ] people . ” but , even as he has spoken those words , his administration has been working behind the scenes to subvert pakistan ’s will by trying to dictate the composition of their next coalition government and prop up the election ’s biggest loser , president pervez musharraf . bush is playing a dangerous game , risking the collapse of pakistan ’s political process for the sake of his own legacy . millions of pakistanis have delivered a clear message at the polls . collectively , they have voted against musharraf and religious extremists , and in favor of democracy , the rule of law , and good governance .
three hiv-positive people still do not receive antiretroviral therapy , but they are not receiving antiretroviral therapy . moreover , long-term treatment is not the same as a cure , and no public-health tool ( in addition to clean drinking water ) has ever matched preventive power in a vaccine . hiv is an extraordinarily complex virus , and it is a disease that is not the only one that is now available . it mutates rapidly within an individual and among geographic locations , establishing latent reservoirs within cells that enable it to emerge and replicate months or even years later . it evades the immune system , so the body ’s natural capacity to fight or clear it is limited .
according to this argument , academic scientists should either publish their research openly or leave the university before pursuing commercial interests . similarly , the universities that employ them should abandon product development to existing companies . but it is useful to remember that the university has been accused of subverting its own ideals and social role since time immemorial , yet what in the past initially looked to many like a conflict of interest often later came to be viewed as a confluence of purposes . for example , during the late 19 th century , as american universities began research at the heart of the academic mission , they were accused of forsaking their traditional pedagogical role . many professors argued that the demands of research would render their teaching obligations impossible to fulfill .
brussels – throughout the crisis period , the behavior of the european central bank has been conditioned on the tension between what it can and what it can do . the ecb is the only institution in the european union that is able to provide unlimited funding to governments , but its governing statute prohibits government bailouts . nonetheless , the ecb has provided massive amounts of liquidity to the financial system , indirectly softening the pressure on government debt refinancing . for 18 months , it has been buying government bonds – worth more than € 200 billion ( $ 254 billion ) – on secondary markets under its securities market program . moreover , it has provided loans to the banking sector , recently launching a three-year refinancing operation that generated demand from eurozone banks at € 489 billion ( $ 389 billion ) .
america would be confronted with these problems , even if it were not simultaneously facing a financial crisis . america ’s economy was supercharged by excessive leveraging ; now comes the painful process of deleveraging . excessive leveraging , combined with bad lending and risky derivatives , caused credit markets to freeze . after all , when banks are not aware of their own balance sheets , they are not about to trust others ’ . ampnbsp ; the bush administration did not see the problems coming , denied that they were problems when they came , then minimized their significance , and , finally , panicked .
vietnam and south korea offer inspiring examples of countries that transformed their education systems within a generation . as former south korean education minister and commission member lee ju-ho noted during our visit , teaching young people to think critically takes time , but the results can have powerful knock-on effects for a country ’s knowledge economy . aware of these benefits , myanmar has placed education at the heart of its reform agenda . one priority – to improve inclusivity – is already underway . for example , the government is currently working to encourage instruction in more local languages – more than 100 are spoken in myanmar – in rural areas .
but what if compensation assumed by economists in theory does not happen in practice ? what if market-fundamentalist politics explicitly forbids income redistribution or regional , industrial , and education subsidies that could compensate those who suffer from free trade and labor-market “ flexibility ” ? in that case , pareto optimality is not socially optimal . instead , policies that intensify competition , whether in trade , labor markets , or domestic production , may be socially destructive and politically explosive . this highlights yet another reason for the failure of economic policy since 2007 .
madrid – economic globalization , together with a rebalancing of power between the world ’s north and south , has made developing countries and many companies within them , key global economic actors . this provides a new rationale for strengthening the international framework to protect foreign investment . once upon a time , global foreign direct investment flowed from only a few sources : traditionally affluent states of europe , north america , and japan . but cross-border investment from countries like brazil , india , and china is now flowing not just to other emerging and transition economies , but also to the “ old ” fdi-exporting states . these changes have increased the complexity of the international investment regime , and it should broaden interest in developing a more effective investment-protection framework .
worries about globalization and the computer revolution ultimately boil down to the same thing , because globalization is mostly the product of new information technology . computers and the internet have made information almost costlessly available , and they can do business across cultures and continents . the worry is that information technology is now on the bend of a “ hockey stick ” curve , where it will suddenly take off at much greater speed than it has before . the resulting changes will not all be welcome in economic terms . hockey stick curves often occur in nature .
copenhagen – amid a surge of concern about climate change , many countries – including brazil , australia , the united states , and the european union ’s members – passed laws in the 2000 ’s , or severely restricting access to incandescent light bulbs . the intent was understandable : if everyone in the world exchanged most light bulbs for energy-efficient compact fluorescent light bulbs ( cfls ) , we could save 3.5 % of all electricity , or 1 % of our co2 emissions . the current attempt by republicans in the american congress to roll back america ’s effort to ban incandescent bulbs revived this discussion . many contend that the agenda is being driven by knuckle-dragging climate-change deniers . but it is worth looking at the premise that banning things is the smartest way to tackle global warming .
this approach limits gains from trade . the inter-american development bank , for example , reports that the gains from trade from latin america ’s 33 small regional trade agreements have been meager . the key to boosting those gains , according to the adb , is to adopt a new strategy that expands access across and across markets . this suggests that for the uk , mega-regional trade agreements – which provide access to multiple markets but entail lower levels of fiscal and regulatory integration than the eu does – are the best way forward . after all , it is this approach that would enable uk firms to position themselves in well-developed and integrated supply chains , serving far larger markets than those to which a bilateral agreement would grant them access .
growth patterns that systematically exclude subgroups founder on the loss of political and social cohesion , and ultimately on the strategy ’s loss of support . by contrast , income inequality that is not too extreme and that does not arise from corruption or privileged access to markets is understood and accepted . providing high-quality basic services like education and health care is viewed as crucial to equality of opportunity and intergenerational mobility . against this backdrop , one can assess current growth patterns in the global economy and its various parts . for starters , public-sector investment is broadly below levels needed to restore and sustain growth , owing partly to fiscal constraints in overly indebted countries .
for starters , it is important to recognize that the line needs a clear vision before extremist parties even arise . if the rule of law is to be upheld , democratic self-defense must not appear ad hoc or arbitrary . criteria for bans should thus be spelled out in advance . one criterion that seems universally accepted is the party ’s use , encouragement , or at least condoning violence – as was apparently the case with golden dawn ’s role in attacks on immigrants in athens . there is less consensus about parties that incite hatred and are committed to destroying core democratic principles – especially because many extremist parties in europe go out of their way to emphasize that they are not against democracy ; on the contrary , they are fighting for “ the people . ”
for them , patriotism means being harder-headed to protect the national interest and adopt more democratic policies that help the working masses , rather than jet-setting fat cats . the second part of this argument – that ordinary people ’s interests have been subordinated to those of the elite – must be heard and responded to . a democracy in which a majority feels neglected or exploited is not sustainable . either a government or the entire system will be overturned . elected officials clearly need to find answers to high unemployment and falling living standards .
more important , wealth and consumption in china are closely related to real-estate values , not equity values . finally , the renminbi ’s recent decline against the dollar was just 2.5 % , from cn ¥ 6.2 to cn ¥ 6.35 – far below the double-digit declines of the japanese yen , the euro , and the british pound . so , on an overall trade-weighted basis , the renminbi is substantially higher relative to those of which it competes . even more relevant , the renminbi ’s decline and other currencies in the past year have had very little impact on american import prices , because the chinese and other exporters price their goods in dollars and adjust when the exchange rate changes . while official american data show overall import prices down 11 % in the 12 months through august , this is almost entirely the result of lower energy costs .
many developing countries spend a lot of time on a stable , no-equilibrium growth path , and then shift to a more positive one . there is nothing automatic automatic about this . in all cases , with which i am familiar , effective leadership was the catalyst . so , while we can expect a multi-year process of rebalancing and closing the gap between actual and potential growth , exactly how long it will take depends on policy choices and the speed of structural adjustment . in southern europe , for example , the process will take longer , because there are more missing components of recovery in these countries .
finally , the eu should work to francoize belarus . like spain in the dictator ’s final years , a political opening is unlikely . but the belarusian economic model can not survive , with the trade deficit forecast to exceed $ 7 billion ( 14 % of gdp ) this year . belarus can not borrow enough to cover this . as with spain under franco , belarus ’s economy will change before lukashenka does , laying the foundation for rapid development once it is gone .
these countries have extremely diverse economic and social conditions , and very different levels of wealth . for example , south koreans now enjoy the standard of living similar to that in the european union , which makes many analysts ’ persistent categorization of south korea a “ emerging economy ” all the more baffling . meanwhile , mexico ’s and turkey ’s levels of wealth have come nowhere near south korea ’s , and yet they are considerably wealthier than the n-11 rest , some of which remain among the world ’s poorest countries . at the same time , asian n-11 countries like the philippines and vietnam have grown significantly since 2005 , while mexico ’s performance has been somewhat disappointing , and egypt ’s even more so . collectively , the n-11 comprises some 1.5 billion people , with its current nominal gdp of around $ 6.5 trillion .
for the first time since world war ii , europe finds itself without a notable ally or partner . far from an aberration , trump ’s trade wars and betrayal of allies represent a new norm for world order . multilateralism , human rights , and respect for international law are now under threat everywhere , owing to demagogic attacks on liberal-democratic principles and trump ’s open support for authoritarians . on both sides of the atlantic , populist politicians regularly mock the idea of an alliance based on shared values , while china and russia continue to expand their spheres of influence unchecked . turkey ’s recent invasion of northern syria , owing to the betrayal of the kurds who led the fight against the islamic state ( isis ) , has also undercut eu interests .
eliminating some 70 million jobs , and thus taxpayers , from the european economy would be clearly disastrous . leading economists like germany ’s klaus regling , who heads the european stability mechanism , the eurozone ’s bailout fund , calculated a decade ago that the eu ’s shrinking workforce is set to impose severe limits on economic growth . he forecast that labor shortages are creating a ceiling that restricts annual gdp growth to 1.8 % between now and 2030 , and a mere 1.3 % from then to 2050 . relatively few europeans seem to contest the moral obligation to accept asylum seekers fleeing syria ’s civil war or political oppression elsewhere . whether or not public sentiment changes in the wake of the paris attacks , economic migrants are viewed as more negatively .
at last count , some 258 million migrants worldwide registered as refugees by the un refugee agency ( unhcr ) were reported to be 22.5 million . these numbers will dwarf if even the most modest climate-related predictions . according to the international organization for migration , climate change could displace as many as one billion people by 2050 . and yet no international climate-induced migration treaty – a gap that must now be addressed . not since 1951 have international standards for refugee protection received so much attention .
lukyanivska prison , kyiv – it has been said that there are no atheists in foxhole . here , after my show trial and four and a half months in a cell , i have discovered that there are no atheists in jail , either . when , despite unbearable pain , you are interrogated – including in your cell – for dozens of hours without disruption , and an authoritarian regime ’s entire system of coercion , including its media , is trying to discredit and destroy you once and for all , prayer becomes the only intimate , trusting , and reassuring conversation that one can have . god , one realizes , is one of only friend and only available family , because – deprived of even access to a trusted priest – there is no one else in whom to confide one ’s worries and hopes . in this season of love and family , loneliness of a prison cell are almost unbearable .
but , beyond aid reductions , donors may also make it more difficult for borrowing countries to repay the aid funds they owe ( this is not limited to education loans ) . and some donors – such as france , germany , and the european investment bank – are lobbying the oecd development assistance committee to count unsubsidized loans as official development assistance to enable them to meet their oda targets . this reverses the trend over the last few decades toward grant-based financing , especially for basic education . but education , a crucial public good , should not be left behind in the pursuit of grant-based aid . loan buy-downs can help keep the education sector “ competitive , ” and could prove to be a mechanism to leverage the extra resources for education , for which capital-strapped countries may be reluctant to borrow otherwise .
ultimately , enhanced economic activity that development generates is the only way to reduce inequalities , particularly amid rapid demographic growth : it is easier to work on a fairer distribution of a growing pie than shrinking one . moreover , rapid paced but ill-distributed economic growth can be accompanied by programs that focus on those left behind , thereby mitigating grievances . it is no coincidence that much of kenya ’s ongoing violence is occurring in the slums of its large cities . had more attention been devoted to the country ’s most glaring inequalities in access to water , shelter , or jobs , this population might not have chosen violence as an instrument of change . let us draw the right lessons from kenya : socio-economic progress remains our best tool to avoid conflict in the long run .
water supplies are also highly variable across regions , and within countries , with floods and droughts occurring at irregular times . one new factor influencing water supplies is the rise in global temperature . while we are not certain about the precise effects , many scientists believe that total annual precipitation will increase , but that its seasonality and the frequency of extremes can also increase . this would make it difficult to harness existing dams ’ supply infrastructure , reservoirs , treatment systems , and pipelines without big modifications . from the writings of early modern commentators on socio-economic growth drivers and decline – adam smith , edward gibbon , thomas malthus , david ricardo , and karl marx – we see that concern about exhausting resources is not new .
qaddafi ’s armed forces were chosen on the basis of loyalty and ethnic affiliation , rather than any concept of merit , so the temptation to strip everyone to their underwear and send them home ( to describe what might be the most humane of outcomes ) might be great . but , arguably , the most important lesson learned in iraq resulted from the almost catastrophic decision to decommission saddam ’s army without pay or pension . that move lay at the root of many of iraq ’s subsequent security problems . libya is fortunate , to some extent , is some ways . the oil sector appears relatively intact , and thus should contribute relatively soon to government revenues .
even aside from the insecurity of new property rights , the gains from privatization are often uncertain at best . the problem lies in the assumption that most state enterprises have value . even in the more favorable conditions prevailing in the west , large state ( and many private ) firms often need to be broken up , restructured , merged , or shut down . in former communist countries , many ( sometimes most ) big firms were misbegotten from the start . in the last years of communism ’s investment was almost totally guided by self-serving enterprise bureaucracies .
yet 58 % of africans lack access to electricity , as do large numbers of people throughout the developing world . the new international initiative , called the “ electrification roadmap , ” grew out of un secretary-general ban ki-moon ’s focus on the importance of energy supplies to achieve the mdgs , as well as from his “ sustainable energy for all ” initiative ( se4all ) , and was officially launched at the rio +20 conference on sustainable development in june 2012 . as discussions showed , these issues receive increased international attention and funding from governments , business , non-governmental organizations , and development finance institutions . eskom ’s role is one of leadership and support . we electrified more than four million households through a focused effort over the short term – an effort that featured prominently in discussions held by the un secretary-general ’s advisory council on sustainable energy , and that drew interest from other developing countries .
the united nations ’ medium-term fertility scenario projects that the world ’s population will rise from seven billion today to ten billion by 2050 . nigeria ’s population could rise from 123 million in 2000 to 440 million by 2050 , while yemen could grow from 18 million to 42 million by 2050 . high fertility rates in many countries are partly the result of low income levels . but causation also runs the other way . high fertility rates stymie prospects for economic growth , because excessively rapid population growth makes it impossible to accumulate per capita stocks of physical and human capital at the pace required to drive rapid income gains .
all the ingredients of a catastrophic outcome have been there . fast forward to the present : the economy is growing at a robust 4.2 % rate , led by double-digit export growth in agriculture , mining , manufacturing , energy , tourism , and business services . at a time when emerging-market economies as diverse as argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa are facing plummeting currencies and rising interest rates , albania has its lowest interest rates on record and a strengthening currency . it now has the lowest sovereign spread for any country in its rating class , indicating that markets think that the rating agencies have been asleep at the wheel . once north korea under communist dictator enver hoxha , albania ’s per capita income level is now 25 % that of germany .
conversely , the us must be prepared to lead international efforts to impose severe consequences on any party that plunges the country back into war . peace and security in darfur should be an essential benchmark for normalization of relations between the us and sudan . the obama administration should hold firm on this through the coming rounds of negotiations , and it should appoint a senior official to help coordinate us policy on darfur to ensure that the peace efforts there receive the same level of attention as north-south efforts . what is needed now is political will – and not only in the us – to sustain this diplomacy . the european union and sudan ’s neighbors – particularly egypt , ethiopia , kenya , and uganda – will also need to play a robust role .
but new debt is nothing but a form of dope , reducing pressure to take painful measures that improve competitiveness and capacity growth . this renewed fall in debt discipline reflects socialization of potential bankruptcy costs among all eurozone countries by means of establishing joint-liability mechanisms . it is this de facto debt mutualization that has prompted creditors to accept lower interest rates , and it is only lower interest rates that have allowed renzi , samaras , valls , and others to distance themselves from austerity policies . there is nothing surprising about this : when a decision-maker can claim full credit for the benefits of a policy and collectivize the costs , he will pursue policies sooner , more quickly , and to a greater extent than he would have to bear the costs alone . what is remarkable is how matter-of-factly european transgressors succeed in cloaking themselves with the mantle of a new social breakthrough .
and why has the world not taken note ? the story is as complex as indonesia itself . one leading expert on indonesia , benedict anderson , roots indonesia ’s nature in its core javanese culture , particularly the wayang religious tradition . according to anderson , “ in contrast to the great religions of the near east … the religion of wayang has no prophet , no message , no bible , no redeemer . … the endless variety and sharp individuality of its dramatis personae indicate that wayang reflects the variegation of human life as it feels by javanese … . ” in short , javanese culture helps indonesia to manage the many diverse voices that a new democracy throws up .
it is crucial to engage with the southern mediterranean region as a critical meeting point – the eu , political , economic , and energy cooperation . in this respect , the eu ’s most valuable tools are its signature , nobel prize-winning model of multilateral dialogue and soft power . next door , russia , too , must respond to new vulnerabilities stemming from changing global conditions . the kremlin continues to support syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , maintain a strict aversion to military intervention , and seeks to defend its strategic interests , including its naval base in syrian city of tartus . that stance has translated , most obviously , into repeated vetoes by un security council resolutions aimed at ending a conflict that has already produced tens of thousands of victims .
cairo – last week ’s visit to egypt by saudi arabia ’s king salman resulted in 22 agreements , including a $ 22 billion oil-for-oil deal to prop up egypt ’s moribund economy . but lavish aid came at a price : egypt had to relinquish two red sea islands ceded to it by saudi arabia in 1950 . the move exposed the egyptian leadership ’s narrative that the country remains a major regional power as a lie . indeed , egypt can not even cope with the domestic challenges posed by a rapidly growing population dependent on unaffordable subsidies – a situation that jihadists exploit with much success . how did the country reach this point ?
in a similar vein , #bringbackourgirls ’ campaign began online after the renowned nigerian playwright wole piñinka ’s world book day speech in which he called on jonathan to “ bring pupils back . ” nigerians ’ expressions of outrage online soon translated into organized action offline , led by former government minister ezekwesili ( who also spoke at the world ’s book event day ) and civil-society leaders , including attorney maryam uwais and hadiza bala usman . protests have spread across nigeria , as have countries with large nigerian diaspora populations , such as the us , the united kingdom , south africa , and canada . international media have received rapt attention , reporting on protests , and sit-ins . the security challenge that nigeria faces during the world economic forum ’s recent meeting in abuja , where the united nations special envoy for global education , former british prime minister gordon brown , unveiled the safe schools initiative .
in early august , russia set the south ossetia trap , and georgia foolishly walked into it . if the russians had used their “ peacekeeping force ” solely to protect south ossetians ’ “ self-determination ” ( citing the precedent of western actions in kosovo ) , they would do little harm to their soft power , with the benefits potentially exceeding the costs . by bombing , blockading , and occupying many parts of georgia , delaying its withdrawal , parading blindfolded georgian soldiers , and failing to protect georgian citizens , russia lost its claims to legitimacy and sowed fear and mistrust in much of the world . neighbors like ukraine have become more wary . an immediate cost has been poland ’s reversal of its resistance to the american anti-ballistic missile system .
but diaspora potential economic significance goes well beyond remittances . as the late historian philip curtin documented , from the start of urban life , millennia ago , trade typically involved networks of co-ethnic merchants living among aliens . greeks , phoenicians , trans-sub-saharan traders , hanseatic league , jews , armenians overseas chinese , and dutch and british east indian companies organized much of the world trade through such networks . although these alien traders were sometimes politically powerful in host countries , they were often weak and faced with discrimination . the economist avner greif argues that these co-ethnic networks ’ durability and resilience throughout history reflect their ability to enforce contracts at long distances when the existing institutional framework could not do so reliably .
those tariffs raise costs for companies that use metal as inputs . for example , the impact on harley-davidson is to raise costs by about $ 20 million ( or more than $ 2,000 per bike ) . the european union ’s retaliatory tariffs could cost the company another $ 45 million , and the us has the equivalent of $ 50 million . trump ’s signature theme is that by helping business , he will help all americans . when government policies reduce profitability – or threaten the existence – of a company , it is only reasonable that people running that business should respond as they see fit .
but the selection of experts reflected a clear bias toward the finance ministry ’s views . in fact , the ministry used its “ informational campaign ” to shape public debate , convincing scholars , business economists , and the general public to worry more about keeping the budget deficit under control than about the effects of a negative demand shock . this is a typical example of what economists like joseph stiglitz call “ cognitive capture . ” for more than two decades – a period characterized by chronic recession and deflation – japan has retained its position as the world ’s richest country in terms of net wealth abroad . at the end of last year , japan ’s net international wealth amounted to ¥ 296 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) .
in fact , the great risk nowadays is that with so many genetic descriptions of organisms pouring out , we are drowning in a sea of data , but moving further away from understanding biological complexity . the basic functional units of all complex living organisms should be remembered , are cells , not genes . what we need now are cell maps and maps of how cells talk to each other . our first job is to say how many different cells there are in a complex organism . i think that we can now say that for c. elegans , we can not .
new york – china ’s massive protest movement in the spring of 1989 , centered in ( but not confined to ) beijing ’s tiananmen square , seems to have been the anti-communist revolt that failed . as the brutal crackdown on and after june 3-4 played out , political freedom was won in central europe – first in poland and hungary , and then beginning that fall , in east germany , slovakia , bulgaria , and , albeit violently and rather , democratically , romania . within the next two years , the soviet union cracked down on mikhail gorbachev ’s reforms , finally imploded . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
from here , but a short step to proclaiming that the american model can not work in europe because it is socially reprehensible , and , in any case , poised to crash any day now . on the other side of the debate , europe ’s desperate reformers see no way to trim , roll back , or blow up the continent ’s obsessive bureaucracies and consensual politicians . in today ’s europe , they see only hints of a possibility – glass far less than half full – for reform and restructuring , and impatient at europe ’s slow progress . true , europe is moving at a painfully slow pace , but the attack on the state and its allies in an ossified supply side and industrial stake holders ’ dinosaurs is widening . new fronts in this war are opening every day .
they simply need the tools , infrastructure , and competence to unlock the continent ’s tremendous agricultural potential . there is no reason – and no excuse – to leave millions ’ survival to unpredictable weather patterns . rather , countries must take control by drastically improving efficiency and productivity . to be sure , progress has been made . some african governments have reduced regulatory barriers to private-sector investment in agriculture .
europeans may be more mercurial , believing that the chinese market will open not only to european engineering products and machine tools to equip the world ’s new workshop , but also to luxury goods and even tourism demanded by a new and affluent chinese middle class . everyone feels that a seismic shift is under way . such rapid industrial rises are rare , but not unprecedented . the most interesting analogies are germany ’s rise in the 19th century , and japan in the 20th century . even prior to that time , england was the economic wunderkind of europe .
everyone expects that the current president , dmitry medvedev , to switch roles with putin after the march election . but waiting in the wings is former finance minister alexei kudrin , who could replace medvedev should russia need factotum of sincerity about economic reform . kudrin ’s reputation for placid competence might just buy putin extra time . but , in putin ’s eyes , this is an unlikely scenario . the once and future president argues that he has already made russia stronger , and that , as financial uncertainty grips much of the developed world in 2012 , the country has become an island of stability envied by many .
over time , this fueled a surge in low-quality lending , because banks did not have to live with the consequences . likewise , for those procuring corporate borrowers and bundling corporate unclos , volume is its own reward , even if this means lowering standards for borrowers ’ creditworthiness . the share of “ weakest links ” – corporates rated b – or lower ( with a negative outlook ) – in overall activity has risen markedly since 2013-2015 . furthermore , not only are newer issues coming from lower-quality borrower , covenants on these instruments – provisions designed to ensure compliance with their terms , and thus minimize default risk – have also become lax . covenant-lite issues are on the rise , and now account for about 80 % of outstanding gdp .
one immediate implication of serving on the council will be the need to take positions on matters that , in recent years , some indian mandarins have preferred to duck – for example , south sudan , whose independence referendum threatens to spark serious violence in an area where indian un peacekeepers are already serving . likewise , during india ’s first month as a council member , the future of the un peacekeeping operation in neighboring nepal will be addressed . before long , the council will also have to consider the implications of america ’s likely commencement of a troop drawdown in afghanistan , another region of direct importance to india ’s national security . issues like sanctions on iran , the stop-and-start middle east peace process , and the world ’s response to the likely change of leadership in north korea will almost certainly appear on the council ’s agenda . all are matters that call for creative and courageous thinking that transcends entrenched positions or reflexive solidarity with “ non-aligned ” countries .
years of opposition politics turned orban and his allies from young idealists into practical politicians approaching the middle age . that practicality will be sorely tested if it is to succeed . one problem orban faces will emerge , not from his opponents , but from within his own party ranks . fidesz ’s increasing number of parliamentarians from 20 to 129 now means that many members were never subjected to the whip of the party . moreover , a large number of these new fidesz mps were formerly members of other parties , collapsing right-wing parties , not so long ago .
but it is the opponents of liberalism who are wielding it most effectively . as far-right french presidential candidate marine le pen puts it , globalization and the liberal institutions that underpin it have become sauvage . meanwhile , nationalism and traditionalism have become sources of positive emotion , even as those emotions – nostalgia and völkisch sense of belonging – continue to shift sands . if liberalism is to survive as a guiding framework for international relations , its proponents must tap into the passions of their own . without disregarding logic and ethics – areas where the liberal world order continues to outshine the alternative – liberals must connect with people on an emotional level .
this sequence of study was devised in 1893 , and it is not the first time in the twentieth century . i believe that it is obsolete , pedagogically disastrous , and ignores the tremendous scientific advances of the twentieth century . other industrial nations can cycle through disciplines , missing the essential coherence of the p-c-b sequence . studying science should start with physics , not biology . in studying physics , students study algebra simultaneously , motivating them with a sense of mathematics power .
until then , income taxes were used only sporadically to raise funds for wars . but in britain in 1842 , the income tax became a systemic , permanent feature of the economy . many at the time rejected the policy altogether , warning that it would destroy incentives and propel the economy toward deflation . fortunately , their hue and cry went unheeded . owing to today ’s technological advances , the share of total income accruing to labor ( as opposed to capital ) is declining worldwide .
yet sticking to the euro and forcing all adjustments in wages risks more unrest ; indeed , it might merely postpone the inevitable . governments and the bond market will test the seriousness of the newly agreed fiscal guidelines ( if ratified ) . while talk is tough now , the history of such agreements does not inspire optimism . before the financial crisis , even germany violated the eu ’s stability and growth pact ( sgp ) limits deficit . in the us , the 1980 ’s deficit limits set by gramm-rudman-hollings law were not met , and , like the sgp , were revised and extended .
between mtfa , efsm , and payments to third countries , total exposure this year amounts to € 70.5 billion . some borrowing over the seven-year mff period may be possible , while upholding the medium-term objective of a balanced budget . such leveraging of the eu budget would complement the recently established european stabilization mechanism ( efsm ’s successor ) and mtfa . countries receiving assistance should be given the option of applying for the anticipated disbursement of eu funds . following a request by a member state , the commission would be authorized to borrow on capital markets under the implicit eu budget guarantee , with the maximum determined by the size of the country ’s unused ( pre-allocated ) structural and cohesion funds .
indeed , japan ’s desire to continue killing whales is no less motivated by “ emotion ” than environmentalists ’ opposition to it . eating whales is not necessary for the health or better nutrition of japan . it is a tradition that they wish to continue , probably because some japanese are emotionally attached to it . the japanese have one argument that is not so easily dismissed . they argue that western countries object to whaling because , for them , whales are a special kind of animal , because cows are for hindus .
abolishing taxes on realized capital gains boosted sales of shares enormously . the international equity fund stepped in , providing companies with urgent need of liquidity while disentangling the traditional ownership network . germany , inc. is on its last legs , inc. the good news is that germany ’s overblown conglomerates are scaled down to efficient size , and that the capital market is capable of doing its job , improving resource allocation . the bad news is that financial capital is moving abroad to finance other overblown conglomerates .
talks would likely be suspended ; we would be back to where we were two years ago , but with overlay of recrimination and mistrust . even absent such developments , drift is not desirable . north korea could use the passage of time to increase its arsenal of nuclear weapons and make some improvements in its warheads and delivery systems without overt testing . there is a big difference between a north korea armed with a handful of inefficient warheads and inaccurate missiles , and one with dozens of advanced weapons that could be mounted on accurate long-range missile systems capable of reaching the us . at this point , any realistic policy must begin by accepting the reality that complete and fully verifiable denuclearization is not a realistic prospect any time soon .
fortunately , bond markets are dead and might take a year to revive them . their absence makes it difficult to invest too large amounts of money in russian securities . something fundamental has changed in the russian economy , and it is the case for the us to invest too much . a time comes when all disasters have occurred , and all stupidities are recognized . for russia , august 1998 marked that dividing line .
they walked , bussed , traveled in carts , telephoned , and tweeted with compatriots motivated partly by social demands – above all for their own empowerment . the contrast between this dynamic space for open protest and saudi arabia could hardly be starker . saudi women find themselves living in a petrified system . the faces of the royal family are seen everywhere ; the faces of women are shrouded , forcibly hidden nowhere . else in the world do we see modernity as such a problem .
in this scenario , one will have to forgo all the well-known economic benefits of the global division of labor . between these two extremes lies most of the world as it is , characterized by regional integration projects like the eu or the north american free trade agreement . we can identify important swings during the history of capitalism over the past two centuries , either toward the market or the nation-state . for example , the repeal of corn laws in the uk in 1846 favored free markets in international trade , and accelerated globalization until world war i. after wwi , the pendulum swung back toward the nation-state .
japan has a strong international reputation when it comes to managing natural disasters . but the “ perfect storm ” of the largest earthquake and tsunami since industrialization , and the resulting meltdown of three reactor cores at the fukushima daiichi plant , went beyond any scenario previously envisaged . japan ’s national government and local communities had no emergency plan for the situation that they faced in contaminated areas , resulting in ad hoc responses marked by inefficiencies and poor communication , particularly with regard to radiological risk . despite such problems , effective measures were implemented to evacuate those at risk , limiting potential hazard from contaminated foodstuffs . local communities initiated immediate decontamination of sensitive areas outside evacuated zones ( such as kindergartens and schools ) , in tandem with efforts by japan ’s atomic energy agency ( jaea ) to develop remediation technology within these zones .
today , with both kirchner and chávez out of the picture , that periods of leftist populism are drawing to a close . chávez ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks experience and influence in foreign affairs . kirchner ’s successor , cristina fernández de kirchner , is struggling . she recently suffered a heavy defeat in her peronist party ’s recent primaries , weakening her chances in the upcoming mid-term congressional elections , and undermining her authority during her remaining two years in office . moreover , she is now facing legislative elections in poor health , following surgery to remove submetic hematoma in her brain .
the three new agencies will not only enforce common technical standards , which may eventually become binding throughout the eu if endorsed by the european commission ; they will also be allowed to settle disputes among national supervisors . more important , should the council declare a state of financial emergency – for example , the one we are currently in – eu agencies might exceptionally be given a position of dominance over national supervisors . needless to say , “ disputes ” and “ emergencies ” are precisely the future situations likely to matter most to national policymakers and taxpayers . if decisions about systemically important national financial institutions are made at the european level in good times , while in bad times national taxpayers pick up tab , the eu as a whole loses . in good times , we probably would not have to tell the difference , but grim reality is that such an arrangement is unlikely to prevent another crisis .
two more attacks on schoolchildren have been launched this week in afghanistan , one at a school of girls where staff have been bludgeoned and bombs set off , and another at a school of neighboring boys , where a classroom sprayed with bullets . the number of casualties in both assaults remains unknown . but the cause is all too well known : war against education . more than 28 million out-of-school children are growing up in conflict zones , including places like the afghan-pakistan border , the fringes of myanmar , and south sudan . all are vulnerable to extremist violence .
one hopes that this task has been made slightly easier by the publication of a book in which copenhagen consensus economists boil down their insights . here is one fact to consider : the entire death toll from the southeast asian tsunami is matched each month by the number of worldwide casualties from hiv/aids . a comprehensive prevention program that provides free or cheap condoms and information about safe sex to regions worst affected by hiv/aids would cost $ 27 billion and save more than 28 million lives . this , say , the economists attending the copenhagen consensus makes it the single best investment the world could possibly make . the social benefits would outweigh the costs by 40 to one .
louis uchitelle of the new york times quotes the highly intelligent catherine mann commenting on the “ co-dependent relationship … between america and its trading partners , ” which might “ last for quite some time ” because “ the us and its major trading partners have a vested interest in the status quo . ” japan , china , and other export-oriented east asian economies are indeed eager to keep the dollar ’s value relatively high , and their central banks have piled up close to $ 2 trillion in dollar-denominated assets . china ’s government regards the threat of capital losses on its dollar-denominated securities as less important than the need to maintain near-full employment in coastal manufacturing cities like shanghai . after all , the ruling communist oligarchs have grown accustomed to comfortable lifestyles . the last thing they want is mass unemployment and urban unrest to call their positions into question .
washington , dc – not long ago , the separation of financial supervision and monetary policy was in vogue in many countries . some countries – like the united kingdom and australia – went so far as to unbundle these functions by assigning responsibility for financial stability to specialized agencies and extricating their central banks from financial supervisory issues altogether . in the aftermath of the global financial crisis , however , financial supervision and macroeconomic management were forced to reunify . this rapprochement is a consequence of the growing recognition that asset-price cycles must be taken into account both for macroeconomic management and financial supervision . prior to the crisis , asset-price cycles were viewed by many as essentially harmless or at least as a relatively insignificant monetary-policy channel .
seoul – if you chase two rabbits at once , the old saying goes , both will flee . and yet this is precisely what many governments are obliged to do : pursue both growth and distributional fairness . the two goals , however incompatible , are entirely different from one another , and few policy tools can simultaneously help to achieve both . this idea matters a lot in trade policy . much theoretical and empirical research demonstrates that opening trade can spur a country ’s gdp growth .
the ttip is not just the us and the eu . mexico already has an fta with the eu , and canada is negotiating one . at some point , nafta and ttip will need to be harmonized . meanwhile , the other countries in the world – still accounting for more than half of world gdp and the bulk of global trade and fdi – are wondering how the ttip would affect each of them . one possibility suggested by my former colleague , former us trade representative carla hills , is that a successful ttip would be a major impetus for rekindling the moribund doha round of global free-trade talks .
indeed , sovereigns dumping a larger fraction of their public debt onto banks ’ balance sheets , especially in the eurozone . to prevent a disorderly eurozone outcome , today ’s fiscal austerity should be much more gradual , a growth compact should complement the eu ’s new fiscal compact , and a fiscal union with debt mutualization ( eurobonds ) . moreover , a full-fledged banking union , starting with eurozone-wide deposit insurance , should be initiated , and moves toward greater political integration must be considered , even as greece leaves the eurozone . unfortunately , germany resists all of these key policy measures , because it is fixated on the credit risk to which its taxpayers would be exposed with greater economic , fiscal , and banking integration . as a result , the probability of a eurozone catastrophe is on the rise . and , while the cloud over the eurozone may be the largest to burst , it is not the only one threatening the global economy .
this so-called “ string of pearls ” strategy directly threatens india ’s national-security interests , rendering the type of robust bilateral relationship that would benefit both countries next to impossible . of course , china claims that its intentions toward india are peaceful . for example , it contends that its efforts to establish bases in the indian ocean and bolster its blue-water navy are aimed at safeguarding the malacca straits , a maritime trade route perceived as choke points for the chinese economy . but actions speak louder than words – and the message that china ’s behavior sends is far from peaceful . indeed , chinese leaders seem to be taking advantage of the opening provided by an overstretched united states to assert control over a wide swath of asia ’s oceans .
european opponents of the map for ukraine and georgia argue that neither country is ready for nato membership . too many question marks their national unity , too many internal conflicts linger , and their records on political and judicial reforms are supposedly dubious . but the map process does not imply an automatic right to nato membership . maps , on the contrary , would impose heavy demands on ukraine and georgia . both would have to answer a lot of difficult questions , and persuade others that they are able to live up to nato ’s democratic demands before they are allowed to join .
but , like donald trump , it was le pen who ran as the “ voice of the people , ” whereas macron , like hillary clinton , depicted himself as a puppet of bankers , cultural elites , and international plutocrats . so what do left and right still mean if anything ? there is little doubt that something has shifted in the decades of the twentieth century . left-wing parties have begun to lose – in some countries more quickly than others – their base in the industrial working class . redistribution of wealth has become progressively less important than the social emancipation of ethnic and sexual minorities .
one risk is that north korea will come to possess a significant arsenal over the next few years , which poses a meaningful threat to the us . another is that north korea ’s neighbors , including south korea and japan , will determine that they , too , need nuclear weapons given the north korean threat , and diminished confidence in the reliability of the us and its guarantees to protect them with its nuclear forces . the danger in both regions is that a race to acquire nuclear weapons could trigger a preventive war . even if such a war were avoided , the presence of multiple nuclear arsenals would increase the temptation for one or more countries to strike first in a crisis . “ use them or lose ” has the potential to become a recipe for instability and conflict when capabilities are not robust enough to absorb an attack and still mete out the sort of devastating retaliation essential to effective deterrence .
at a 2013 summit meeting in sunnylands retreat in california , us president barack obama showed china ’s president xi jinping the evidence that members of the chinese military were stealing industrial technology . the chinese accepted the evidence , agreeing that stealing industrial technology was different from other forms of espionage , and said that the chinese government would not help in such theft in the future . because that is not enough to stop other chinese theft of american civilian and military technology , the new nss rightly stresses that the american government will take additional steps to stop it . when it turns to specific trade policies , the nss emphasizes that the us will seek to “ break down trade barriers , ” and provide opportunities for americans to increase their exports . ” this emphasis on boosting exports , rather than reducing imports , is a welcome feature .
many chinese mistakenly concluded that this represented a shift in the balance of global power . but such narratives can lead to conflict . indeed , overconfidence in assessing its power led to more assertive chinese foreign-policy behavior in the latter part of 2009 and 2010 . china miscalculated by deviating from a smart strategy of rising power and violating deng ’s dictum that china should proceed cautiously and “ skillfully keep a low profile . ” after chinese leaders faced international criticism and deteriorating relations with the us , japan , india , and other countries , they decided to return to deng ’s smart-power strategy .
but , since then , the country has run into trouble , becoming the recipient of record-breaking support from the international monetary fund . argentina has fallen back into crisis for the simple reason that not enough has changed since the latest debacle . as such , the country ’s economic and financial foundations have remained vulnerable to both internal and external shocks . though they have been committed to an ambitious reform program , argentina ’s economic and financial institutions have also made several avoidable mistakes . fiscal discipline and structural reforms have been unevenly applied , and the central bank has squandered its credibility at key moments .
attempts by economists to predict the future have had mixed results , at best ; very few foresaw the depth of the great recession , even after it had already started . the trouble lies in the fact that many of the leading indicators used to measure the economy rely on out-of-date , incomplete , or flawed data . forecasters , for example , calculate real gdp based on initial monthly estimates of quarterly gdp – a statistic that is often revised significantly as more data become available . as a result , forecasts lag behind reality . during the third quarter of 2008 , fewer than 30 % of forecasters who contribute to a survey of professional forecasters predicted a decline in gdp in the remaining months of the year ; in fact , gdp plunged more than 8 % in the fourth quarter of 2008 , one of the largest drops on record levels .
fighting in kosovo is the first significant conflict that , for one side at least , involves no considerations of strategy , territory , population , natural resources , or even ideology . the west is fighting war over principles , war , as president bill clinton put it , “ to end the moral tragedy . ” at issue is an attempt to stop the epidemic , carriers of which in 20th century europe nazism , communism , fascism , and now nationalism . nato , for the first time , intervened in another country ’s internal affairs . this is a major change in nato ’s policy , which downgrades the idea of national sovereignty and elevates the status of ethical norms in international relations .
building codes already guard against dangers like fire and earthquakes . far-sighted governments in places as different as germany and singapore are now mandating green buildings . policymakers know that governments have a role to play in mandating regulations to create a level playing field and to help build industrial capacity . california ’s latest building and appliance standards are expected to avoid the need for five large power plants in the next ten years . buildings last for decades , so decisions made today have a long-term impact on our energy consumption .
nonetheless , efforts to preempt american strategy have clearly failed , as new un sanctions were implemented earlier this month . as the deal was intended to avoid a nuclear standoff with iran , why has so much outrage been made in the us and the west ? i fear this is because the us itself has found itself denied its primacy in setting global policy toward iran . rather than seeking to explore the possibilities presented by the “ troika ” of the us , the american people ’s party quickly pressed the un security council for more sanctions ( the fourth round so far ) on iran . this has forced brazil and turkey , both currently non-permanent members of the security council , to vote against a resolution of sanctions .
they chose , without explanation , to divide debt-to-gdp ratios into the following categories : under 30 % , 30-60 % , 60-90 % , and above 90 % . and it turns out that growth rates decline in all of these categories as the debt-to-gdp ratio rises , only somewhat more so in the last category . there is also the issue of reverse causality . debt-to-gdp ratios tend to increase for countries that are in economic trouble . if this is part of the reason that higher debt-to-gdp ratios correspond to lower economic growth , there is less reason to think that countries should avoid a higher ratio , because keynesian theory implies that fiscal austerity would undermine rather than boost , economic performance .
as a result , policies force people and businesses to shift to immature technologies will slow growth and exacerbate energy poverty . this is also why the world is far further behind in its “ energy transition ” than most people realize . solar and wind together currently deliver about 1 % of global energy , and the international energy agency estimates that this will reach just 4.1 % by 2040 . vaclav smil , who is bill gates ’s favorite energy expert , says that “ claims of a rapid transition to a zero-carbon society are plain nonsense , ” adding that “ even a greatly accelerated shift toward renewables would not relegate fossil fuels to minority contributors to global energy supplies anytime soon , certainly not until 2050 . ” many of today ’s panicky political statements and climate protests are fueled by the widespread belief that the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) told us that we have just 12 years left to save the planet .
fewer africans working in rich countries automatically translate into fewer money circulating in african countries . the decline in remittances , however , cuts both ways . remittances have long spurred inflation in many parts of africa . a ugandan doctor working in norway , for example , cares little about the cost of beer in kampala . he is also willing – and able – to pay more than a local doctor for services , and , of course , a home in uganda .
in europe , by contrast , greater weight is placed on risk avoidance , undermining private-sector confidence in investing in innovation . the eu ’s goal – to protect human health and the environment – is laudable . but mitigating all risk is impossible , so the goal is impossible . rather , the precautionary principle should be used judiciously and rationally , balancing potential risks with the benefits that innovation and new technology might offer . this notion of risk underpins economic interactions .
ramallah – palestinians and israelis have different and possibly contradictory expectations from the indirect negotiations that the united states has pushed both sides to the start . israel was among the first parties to welcome the arab league ’s reluctant decision to back palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’s call for the arabs to give their blessing to the talks . it is clear that for israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s right-wing government , the start of indirect talks without freezing settlement activities in the west bank and jerusalem is a sort of victory . just to remind the world of this , as the indirect talks were preparing to get off the ground , israel ’s government has approved a decision to break the ground on 112 housing units in bethlehem ’s settlements south , and 1600 new settlements in east jerusalem . for palestinians , a return to the talks , however indirect , is focused on one strategic issue : borders .
for while the moral hazard argument emphasizes the orthodox commandment “ thou does not intervene , ” a crucial feature of globalization hazard is market failure . unlike moral hazard , market failure highlights circumstances in which government intervention is both socially desirable and economically defensible . that the failure of international capital markets led to sudden and devastating capital outflows after 1996 is just one such episode . consider other devastating events that are uninsured ( and often uninsurable ) in the private sector . in the us , for example , floods , hurricanes , earthquakes , and tornadoes trigger immediate federal assistance .
thus , though european countries remained democratic , eu institutions where sovereignty over crucial decisions was transferred remained democracy-free . as margaret thatcher explained during her recent parliamentary appearance as british prime minister , who controls money and interest rates controls european politics . handing europe ’s money and politics to a cartel administration not only spell the end of european democracy ; it also fueled a vicious cycle of authoritarianism and poor economic performance . the more europe ’s establishment chokes off democracy , the less legitimate its political authority becomes . that leads european leaders to double down on authoritarianism to stick to their failed policies when recessionary economic forces strengthen .
tokyo – the scale of the earthquake and tsunami that hit japan in march was far greater than even the authorities ’ worst-case scenarios predicted . nearly six months later , total damage remains difficult to estimate . social unrest and confusion , together with radiation leaks from the fukushima nuclear plant , continue . and now the country has absorbed another massive blow : another downgrade of its bond ratings . both moody ’s and standard & poor ’s now rate japanese bonds at only their fourth-highest level .
even if the accuracy of iranian missiles can not be guaranteed , many could still evade defensive systems . israel ’s state-of-the-art iron-dome anti-missile defenses , for example , have been unable even to neutralize all of the crude missiles launched from gaza . moreover , the iranian regime has forged a network of proxy forces across the region . syria and iraq have become crucial links in the iran-led shia strategic arc stretching from afghanistan to lebanon . the regime ’s proxy forces include segments of afghanistan ’s shia population , iraqi shia militias , and hezbollah , which controls southern lebanon and has thousands of rockets ready to target israel .
indeed , rasheed notes that at every american screening of his film , audiences need to apologize before they begin to relate to rasheed as a filmmaker rather than as his country ’s proxy . “ personally , i do n’t ask anything ; i ’m here to clear some confusion by the medium of film . ” iraq , ravaged by war and now shaken daily by violence , is known as the most intellectually inclined of arab countries . as iraq and other muslim intellectuals in the region often repeat : “ books are written in egypt , printed in lebanon , and read in iraq . ” here , too , hope is that raheed and his colleagues continue to build up an iraqi culture that is vibrant and free ; here , too , hope is that the relationship between the us and international audiences to rasheed goes from one expiation to one of his engagement with his work .
complicating matters further for china , the rush to create an open , market-oriented economy has fueled corruption and rent-seeking . and , as recent european post-crisis experience has shown , it is politically difficult to undertake structural reforms when vested interests have captured the regulatory system . that is why chinese president xi jinping has been engaged in a comprehensive anti-corruption campaign – often misrepresented as a power grab – since assuming office in 2012 . yet china ’s problems extend beyond structural imbalances to two types of cyclical macroeconomic risk . the first risk stems from business cycles in advanced , market-based economies , where interest rates , inflation , and growth rates rise and fall together .
moreover , trade also carries much broader benefits for society . economic globalization has been shown to reduce child mortality and extend life expectancy , owing to increased incomes and improved information . in the us , trade over the last half-century has increased longevity considerably . in uganda , freer trade over the last 35 years has been shown to lengthen average life by 2-3 years . what ’s more , “ free trade is good for the environment , ” to quote one academic study .
permanent structured defense cooperation – agreed last december by the european council – is a good place to start , with countries increasing , for example , joint strategic planning at the european level . inspired by german chancellor angela merkel ’s recent proposal to tie eu funding to accepting migrants , eu member states should also work to create stronger incentives for cooperation . there is no question that it is difficult for 27 sovereign countries to act as one . but , as tempting as it may be , attempting to paper over differences or avoid dissent – let alone destroying the compact at the heart of the european project – will make no matters any easier . the only way to get where europe needs to go is through a realistic and gradual effort to build unity .
to be sure , the media are under attack like never before , and not only from fake news and polarizing presidents . the slaying of nine journalists in kabul on april 30 , in hindu suicide bombings that killed at least 25 people , marked the deadliest day for journalists in afghanistan since the taliban ’s fall , adding to a grim global tally . according to reporters without borders , more than 1,000 journalists worldwide have been murdered in the last 15 years , bringing only a handful of perpetrators to justice . and yet fresh glimmers of hope are multiplying . around the world , journalists and their supporters are fighting back in encouraging ways .
seven decades ago , the developed world accounted for most of the world ’s income , but only 15 % of its population . now , billions of people have lifted out of poverty and become wealthier , healthier , and more opportunities . future historians may well remember this period as humankind ’s greatest exercise in inclusiveness to date . yet not so long ago , almost no one saw it coming . this unanticipated megatrend has unforeseen corollaries .
in the 1980 ’s , for example , the soviet leadership warned that any reform would enable germany to control poland . indeed , it responded to the polish opposition ’s rise by castigating them as instruments of western power , stalking horses for american or german interests that ultimately exploit ordinary poles . at the same time , the communist government emphasized how incoherent the opposition was , owing to the tensions inherent in the marriage of economic liberals , leftist workers , conservative catholics , and nationalists . nurturing suspicions about who was backing whom helped drive wedges among various groups . polish foreign minister radosław sikorski ’s recent call for more assertive leadership by germany demonstrates how different poland ’s worldview today is .
the inter-parliamentary union ranks japan 158th out of 189 countries in terms of its ratio of female mps . things are just as bad at lower levels of government , where women account for a mere 13.1 % of representatives in local parliaments , more than 40 % of whom have no female members at all . as the leader of the liberal democratic party , abe should instruct local party branches to choose more female candidates to run in next april ’s local elections . but , so far , abe seems to lack the will to do so ( though he may choose to work with local party bosses behind the scenes to bring more women ) . it is also worrying that some of abe ’s women have chosen for his cabinet , and for key party posts , arch-conservatives who advocate that women stay home and take care of children .
living a long time is one of our deepest wishes , and medical and economic progress offers hope that it will be fulfilled . some researchers say that average human lifespan could reach 90 years or more by mid-century . but what if our wish is taken for granted ? what good is a longer life if we can not keep our standard of living ? the fundamental difficulty in planning for enhanced longevity is that we do not know whether it will actually happen .
so , in introducing a new governance style , exemplified by merit-based cabinet appointments , jokowi must be careful not to alienate the political and business elites who have long benefited from his tight grip on power . in short , if jokowi is to form a national consensus on the institutions indonesia needs , he will have to reach across this political divide . to this end , mexican president enrique peña nieto ’s cross-party “ pact for mexico ” could serve as a useful model . promisingly , jokowi has a reputation for independence from partisan and religious politics , and a talent to communicate with the people . and , as a political outsider , he is in a unique position to direct indonesia toward a more prosperous , unified future – and vault himself to the country ’s pantheon of great leaders .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
the imf is too politically a systemic-risk watchdog . the next g-20 summit should implement a fundamental reform of the fsb . it should give the fsb a legal personality enshrined in the international treaty . currently , the board has no formal status , and only a small , albeit high-quality , permanent staff , hosted by the bank for international settlements in basel . draghi ’s successor as chairman should be a full-time appointee , and the fsb should be given powers to direct other standard setters , review the implementation of standards by individual countries , and publish results .
the case also attracted attention in the west . dozens of pop stars , from pete townshend and paul mccartney to madonna , rallied in support of women . of course , pussy riot could hardly be classified as musicians . they were more interested in creating visual images . both feminist chants and primitive “ machiavellids ” were secondary to spectacle .
the us petroleum ministry ( gdpr ) , the us agency for the petroleum sector , has dismissed these claims , vowing to impose hefty fines on companies flout the deadline . in the early 1990s , nigeria was desperate to short-circuit hard currency , negotiated contracts permitting oil companies to develop new fields and recoup their investment before the profits were shared . now , following companies ’ discovery of massive reserves , technocrats appointed by yar ’ adua ’s adua to take charge of oil policy want nigeria to get a bigger slice of the pie . that , too , means ending government co-financing of operating costs and demanding that oil companies tap capital markets to bridge the shortfall . moreover , tony chukwueke , the dpr ’s head , has announced plans to create an african version of petrffee , malaysia ’s state-run oil company , and transform the sclerotic nigerian national petroleum corporation into a powerful oil-producing firm that can dominate the market in guinea and other emerging regions .
moscow – in the wake of the september 11 , 2001 , terror attacks in the united states , the so-called “ war on terror ” was launched . but the us-led military invasions of afghanistan and iraq were not the whole ; many countries , too , ramped up monitoring and policing of domestic media and ordinary citizens . freedom of expression and personal privacy , governments claimed , would have to be curtailed . the damage has been particularly pronounced in russia , where anti-terror regulations have often been used as a tool to muffle the voices of those who offer independent or alternative views , particularly views that are critical of president vladimir putin ’s government . by using security as a pretext to flout russian media legislation that explicitly protects journalists from censorship , the government has undermined journalism considerably .
but , as edmund burke famously pointed out , “ your representative owes you , not his industry only , but his judgment , and betrays , instead of serving you , if he sacrifices it to your opinion . ” populist campaigns in major referendums this year differed in important respects . colombian opponents of the peace agreement , for example , appealed to universal norms of justice for war crimes committed by the military and farc , not to national particularism , as in the uk and the netherlands . nonetheless , they have all been motivated by a desire to scuttle governments and institutions that they oppose . and they have all been willing to follow the tradition of dictators and resort to smears , distortions , and even “ fantastic ” claims .
to bookish young man , allen , anxious intellectual who still gets the girl , was a kind of role model . but now that we know the accusations against the comedian and movie director , we are being forced , in scott ’s view , to reappraise the work in this light . something sinister and immoral may be found in films that we should take into account . in other words , bad behavior , or even alleged bad behavior , may taint artistic work , because the artist can not be separated from his art . this is at least an interesting proposition than the notion that art should be disqualified simply because we do not like the way the artist behaved privately .
and public officials are being prosecuted just as well . guatemala ’s former president , otto pérez molina , was forced to resign , and was subsequently jailed for corruption . indonesia ’s house speaker setya novanto , too , was forced to resign after being caught trying to extort money from a subsidiary of the freeport-mcmoran mining company . and indonesia ’s special court for corruption crimes has just sentenced the country ’s former minister of energy and mineral resources , jerusalem wacik , to four years in prison . journalism has played a larger role as well .
most economists agree on the ideal mix and sequencing of such maneuvers . so-called “ beautiful de-leveraging ” entails a combination of internal reform , financing , and judicious use of the market pricing mechanism . but what looks good in theory has proved difficult to implement in practice . for one thing , policymakers are more likely to continue to increase their countries ’ reliance on financing , thereby heightening the risk of disorderly market adjustments than they are to implement difficult structural reforms and fiscal adjustments . for this reason , many countries have endured painful disruptions , which have aggravated potentially avoidable falls in output , causing unemployment to surge , and , at worst , eroded potential growth .
stanford – in march , the german tabloid bild published an article based on a secret document revealing how breakaway areas of eastern ukraine are “ being treated as parts of russia ’s sovereign territory . ” revelations cast the ongoing minsk 2 peace negotiations in a new light , one that illuminates the frustrations expressed by ukraine ’s government . the bild document is a report from the october meeting of russia ’s “ inter-ministerial commission on humanitarian aid to the affected areas in the southeast of donetsk and luhansk . ” it describes how the meeting ’s attendees have focused not just on humanitarian assistance , but rather on serving as a sort of shadow government . working groups working with russian authorities were established to manage the region ’s finances , economic policies , energy and transportation infrastructure , and trade .
let us be very clear , too , about “ renegotiating the terms of membership , ” the refuge of those who want to leave but want to persuade people that it really is merely an adjustment of the relationship . when , in the “ adjustment ” course , the going gets very rough ( as it will ) , they will say , “ well , it ’s pity , but now it seems that adjustment is not enough . ” if britain focuses over the coming years not on how it can help europe recover and prosper , but rather on how it can change its own relationship with europe , there should be little doubt about the temper and frame of mind that our current partners will bring to that negotiation . there will be varying degrees of politeness . but they will not thank us and accommodate us .
it is also depriving the continent of the talents and contributions needed to drive development and progress . a 2011 african development bank report finds that “ getting women into science and technology ultimately promises to benefit society as a whole . ” gender equity in stem is achievable , and many african scholars show the world how to do so . but they need help , and programs that offer scholarships and support are among the best ways to achieve parity in the sciences . the causes of africa ’s stem gender imbalances are often compared to leaky pipe : girls start with interest and aptitude , but drop out of disciplines at different points in their education .
and , however farfetched a global currency may sound , recall that before world war i , ditching the gold standard seemed equally implausible . the current system is both risky and inefficient . different monies are not just an nuisance for tourists who arrive home with pockets full of unspendable foreign coins . global firms waste time and resources on largely futile efforts to hedge currency risk ( benefiting only the banks that act as middlemen ) . ridding the world of national currencies would be enormous .
what they have not done is engage the international community with a comprehensive counterproposal . their offer – which would have to go much further than the 2002 arab peace initiative , or the portfolio of relevant united nations resolutions – could even incorporate kushner ’s plan as part of the transition to a final settlement . in the past , transitional agreements amounted to what george orwell called “ catastrophic gradualism . ” but , with the inclusion of a robust economic strategy , this could be transformed into “ auspicious gradualism . ” after all , economic development would go a long way toward stabilizing palestinian society in preparation for statehood , drastically boosting the chances of a peace settlement for the sake of long-term success .
caning kartika , by contrast , is no example of political manipulation , and , for that reason , it is perhaps even more worrisome . her sentence was roundly supported by modernist muslim intellectuals , who insisted that punishment is justly applied , and can not be questioned , because it has divine sanction . these are not politicians , but former idealists who are happy that their islamic goals are realized . most are anti-umno and the pas ’s support . as a result , the umno finds itself squeezed between the islamic lobby , which presses for the country ’s greater “ talibanization ” and the rising voices of international critics who can not be ignored , because the party needs both radical supporters and foreign investors to stay in power .
to be sure , the us would need to respond to the conclusion of any trilateral northeast asian fta to preserve its own role in global trade – and in the supply chains that dominate the asian economies . it would most likely seek to expand and deepen the infant trans-pacific partnership , the trade agreement that us president barack obama committed last year to the us . in particular , the us would strongly encourage japan to join the tpp , because the american might want a united asia-pacific economic community , rather than a split between asia and the pacific . because japan would not want to be disconnected from the us for strategic reasons , it might indeed accept america ’s invitation . in this scenario , both japan and south korea would have to find some means to bridge a sino-centric asia and a us-centered pacific .
as the premier pan-european union institution , the ecb is uniquely positioned to play a leadership role in europe ’s discussion of fiscal policy , trade policy , and demographic transition . but , while it quietly makes a number of important technical contributions to various debates , it hemmed in politically , and thus can not reach forcefully beyond its jurisdiction . this is unfortunate limitation of the ecb ’s design by a group of nation states that have yet to decide whether they prefer greater unity or greater decentralization . for the boj , the fundamental problem is its deep institutional fear of rocking the boat politically , and thus its inability to play the role of chief economist . as a result , america ’s fed chairman today commands super-normal influence .
these results foreshadowed a study last year by anne case and angus deaton , showing that life expectancy was on the decline for large segments of the population – including america ’s so-called angry rust belt men . but , with incomes of the bottom 90 % having stagnated for close to a third of a century ( and falling for a significant share ) , health data simply confirmed that things were not going well for very large swaths of the country . and while america might be at the extreme of this trend , things were little better elsewhere . but , if it seemed clear that there would be political consequences , their shape and timing were far less obvious . why did the backlash in the us come just when the economy seemed on the mend rather than earlier ?
aside from the annapolis talks , which seem to be going nowhere , owing to irreconcilable differences over core issues , all other peace efforts are more tactical than strategic . in none of them do the conditions yet exist for an immediate leap from war to peace , nor do the parties themselves expect to happen . it would require bold statesmanship to turn the cease-fire with hamas into a prelude to political talks . indeed , both israel and the united states remain adamant about excluding hamas from the annapolis process unless and until it recognizes israel ’s right to exist , while hamas will not abandon its identity as a opposition movement merely to join negotiations that seem unlikely to satisfy palestinian minimal demands . for israel , a cease-fire with hamas reflects its reluctance to become mired in another asymmetric war , like that fought in lebanon two summers ago , this time in the alleys of gaza ’s refugee camps .
specifically , germany , europe ’s greatest economic power , and france , intellectual progenitor of european unification , should announce their simultaneous exit from the euro and re-adoption of the deutsche mark and the franc . this would trigger the immediate revaluation of the deutsche mark – and possibly of the franc – relative to the euro . for their part , other eu member countries would have to decide whether to retain the euro in its truncated form or revert to their own national currencies , possibly pegging them to the revived deutsche mark or franc . regardless of their decision , the price competitiveness of the eurozone ’s weaker economies would improve considerably . of course , france and germany would have to implement interim arrangements to safeguard their banking systems ’ stability .
islamic revolutionaries in 1979 thus made the point of preserving zoroastrian temples . in its muslim era , iran boasted some of the world ’s greatest poets , writers , and scientists . none of this would have been possible had iran ’s ancient muslim rulers not allowed academic freedom and free exchange of ideas and expression – something sorely missing in today ’s islamic republic . other autocratic rulers in the muslim world are learning from iran ’s example cracking down on hard intellectuals , journalists , lawyers , women activists , or just about anyone with ideas and eager to exchange them with others . for such muslim rulers , intellectuals are the new global terrorists bombarding their regimes with intellectualism .
the leadership group would thus constitute an important public demonstration of governments ’ commitment to addressing and resolving core issues , providing a desperately needed vehicle for translating their resolve into action . its direct ties to us president barack obama , russian president vladimir putin , and european leaders would distinguish it from existing arrangements . initially , the leadership group could include representatives from the core group of states – france , germany , italy , poland , russia , sweden , ukraine , the united kingdom , and the united states – directly empowered and connected to their presidents and prime ministers . to ensure broad membership and transparency across europe and within existing structures , the leadership group should include the osce , the european union , the eurasian economic union , and nato . the leadership group ’s first priority would be to address the current crisis .
as some confidence returns in an eventually recapitalized banking system , and long bond yields decline with falling inflation , mortgage , and other borrowing rates will plummet , and monetary transmission mechanisms will revive , supporting economic activity and stabilizing real house prices , albeit at substantially lower levels . finally , there are two major differences between the 1930s and the present . the industrial world is now far more dependent on ( mostly foreign ) oil than it was then . the extreme rise in real oil prices was a major cause of the current recession , and its reversal will be a major factor in recovery . the other crucial difference is that we know enough not to repeat errors – particularly trade protectionism – of the 1930s .
scientists continue to surprise us with amazing discoveries , with billions of people around the world lifted out of poverty . but dark clouds have formed on the horizon . terrorists have struck europe with a vengeance , with millions of refugees fleeing wars and hunger taxing european institutions and straining social cohesion . populist movements have emerged , calling for closed borders and new walls , and their rejection of expertise has led heldin to a “ grim truth ” : that “ we can no longer take it for granted that people believe in science , facts , and knowledge . ” of course , our expectations will always be in tension with reality .
denver – the agreement on syria ’s chemical weapons reached by russia and the united states is important not so much for what it could mean on the ground – which remains to be seen as inspectors begin to flow into syria , and we hope that chemical-weapons stockpiles begin to be destroyed . rather , the agreement ’s main significance consists in striking at all : american secretary of state john kerry met with his russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , in geneva that most traditional diplomatic venues and cut a deal on the issue of intense mutual interest . in the days ahead , weeks and months ahead , arrangements to remove chemical weapons from syria will , one hopes , start a new era in which the us and russia work together on other pressing global issues as well . a cooperative us-russia relationship is essential if the international system , now almost dysfunctional , is to work properly in the future . the agreement on syria could accomplish something else : americans might recognize that the lo and behold , there are other ways to solve problems than dropping bombs .
the benefits of global capitalism are unevenly distributed . capital is in much better shape than labor , because capital is more mobile . moreover , financial capital is better positioned in the global system than industrial capital ; once a plant exists , moving it is difficult . to be sure , multinational corporations enjoy flexibility in transfer pricing , and can exert pressure at a time when new investment decisions are made , but their flexibility does not compare to the freedom that international portfolio investors enjoy . there is also an advantage in being at the center of the global economy , rather than at the periphery .
i have long defaulted on watching five-year forward prices for the lack of a more “ more ” approach to thinking about the equilibrium oil price . as i explained in january 2015 , brent crude spot oil is less subject to speculative fluctuations , and thus to purer approximation of underlying commercial supply and demand factors . the graph i prepared – made before the latest oil-price acceleration in early november – shows the five-year forward oil price picking up after a period of some stability . with spot prices now moving above five-year forward , one could conclude that a trend change is underway . for my part , i ’m unsure ; but i would not be surprised if it happened .
the dpj ’s only reason for being , however , is its anti-ldp stance , whereas the sdp has long opposed the japan-american security treaty , and the pnp strongly opposes koizumi ’s privatization era . that does not amount to a coherent government program , and prime minister yukio hatoyama ’s administration quickly revealed the dpj ’s fundamental hollowness . but the biggest problem with hatoyama ’s government is that the dpj took power without a coherent national security policy . this should not have surprised anyone . the dpj was established in 1998 as the “ jambalaya ” party , consisting of people who abandoned the ldp , including hatoyama himself and the former socialist party .
preparing for effective defense of the state is unthinkable without a greater or lesser degree of participation in all state institutions . in a democratic state , these engage in defense efforts only insofar as society understands the importance of defense in the former . so the time and again defending the state must be reminded , and that defending the state means first and foremost defending the human dignity of every one of us . the region ’s new republics face no concrete or visible enemy at present . as a result , many regard defense expenditures as a luxury , if not an outright waste of money .
more investment could enable scientists to discover new microbial strains with unique abilities to influence soil and crop health locally , thereby leveraging africa ’s own natural environment to improve agricultural productivity . greater investment in soil research could also have spillover benefits for african economies . with new discoveries leading to patents and licenses , the resulting research could spur the formation of new agribusinesses and farm-related industries . i can personally vouch for spillover power benefits from this type of research . my own work on soil microbes at auburn led to the issuance of three us patents , with several agricultural companies pursuing the rights of commercializing products from the technology .
in the american-iranian equation , it was the us , not iran , that conducted rigid ideological diplomacy . iran backed the us during the first gulf war , but was left out of the madrid peace conference . iran also supported america in its war to depose the taliban in afghanistan . and , when american forces overran saddam hussein ’s army in the spring of 2003 , encircled iranians proposed a grand bargain that would place all contentious issues on the table , from the nuclear issue to israel , from hezbollah to hamas . iranians also pledged to stop obstructing the israeli-arab peace process .
at the same time , the us has long pursued military superiority . it unilaterally abrogated the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty in 2002 . and , more recently , it has embarked on a massive build-up of conventional forces and a large-scale modernization of its nuclear arsenal . still , russia , china , and the rest of the world will not allow a return to american hegemony . putin recently made this clear by unveiling a number of new , cutting-edge strategic weapons systems , as part of what i would call a strategy of “ preemptive deterrence . ”
but in copenhagen , the structure established by the lisbon treaty failed . beyond the failure in copenhagen , the eu has several other problems . it tends to be perceived globally as supercilious , petulant , and prim . its know-it-all attitude grates almost everywhere . with just 7 % of the world ’s population ( and rapidly dwindling ) and composed mainly of post-industrial low-growth economies , the eu is increasingly viewed as marginal .
but larger companies also have larger capabilities to become a force for good , both locally and globally . if a company size of america ’s retailer walmart decides that it will not allow wasteful packaging , its purchasing power will lead to changes in packaging for the retail sector as a whole . the same is true of wages and labor practices . when the world ’s largest companies and most well recognized brands take seriously their responsibility as buyers , sellers , and manufacturers , and make firm commitment to act on core values , others tend to follow – or risk being left behind . those operating in an ethical manner and seek to improve the lives of all who are connected to manufacture , marketing , and distribution of their products will benefit kudos , more business , or simply not singled out as a bad actor .
simply put , western countries ’ current approach is not working . this can be seen most clearly in my country , pakistan . despite massive increases in aid dollars in recent years , including billions authorized by former president barack obama , those on the ground are largely cut off from the delivery process . there are roughly 70 separate local aid offices , and 40 international ngos involved in providing aid to pakistanis . but most decisions about how to spend the money they receive are made outside the country .
the same corruption of purpose is to cause the canadian government to guarantee a new pipeline to export output from its polluting and expensive oil sands to asia , while under-investing in canada ’s vast renewables . in his meeting with ceos of major oil and gas companies , francis told them , “ our desire to ensure energy for all must not lead to the undesired effect of a spiral of extreme climate change , owing to the catastrophic rise in global temperatures , harsher environments , and rising levels of poverty . ” he noted that oil companies are engaged in “ the continued search for new fossil-fuel reserves , ” whereas the paris agreement clearly urged keeping most of the fossil-fuel underground . ” and he reminded executives that “ civilization requires energy , but energy use must not destroy civilization ! ” francis underscored the moral dimension of the problem :
and a nearly identical , invariably lethal disease , kuru , ravaged aboriginal people in papua new guinea throughout the twentieth century . both kuru and scrapie are infectious , and they are also infectious . kuru was transmitted through cannibalistic rituals that were commonplace in papua new guinea until the 1950 ’s . similarly , in the uk and elsewhere , healthy cattle were fed meat and bone foods made from infected cattle . the resulting epizootic ( animal epidemic ) affected more than 280,000 cows .
this includes those reliant on bank credit , as well as many mortgage holders with very high legacy interest rates and balances that exceed their home market value . from every angle , the “ extrems-of-affairs ” state – in which those with access to credit need not be it , and those who can not get it – is highly problematic . if left unattended , it leads to gradual , followed by accelerating , renewed deleveraging of the economic system , with the highest first-round costs – longer unemployment and growth crises – disproportionately borne by those least able to suffer . in the next round , as the system slowly implodes , even those with sound balance sheets would be impacted , accelerating their disengagement from a deleveraging world economy . all of this slows social mobility , tears already-stretched safety nets , worsens inequality , and accentuates genuine concerns about the functioning and sustainability of today ’s global economic system .
everywhere else , for whatever reason – misguided strategies , tactical mistakes , erroneous theories , american intervention , etc. – faced only defeat , repression , and futility . by the early 1990 ’s , it became increasingly evident that the armed struggle for power in latin america had been winding down . only a few groups remained : the shining path in peru , manuel rodríguez patriotic front in chile , for a brief time in chiapas , mexico , and the farc in colombia . democratic transitions throughout the hemisphere had made guerrilla warfare unjustifiable : as che foretold in his 1962 la guerra de guerrillas , wherever trappings ( or , one might add , realities ) of democratic rule prevailed , taking up arms was pointless . in country after country , the guerrillas were defeated , pacified , brought to the democratic process , or rendered irrelevant .
european fascism collapsed with germany ’s defeat in 1945 , but less aggressive forms lived on elsewhere , such as argentina with its peronism . the social base of interwar fascism made it reasonable to see it as the right party . at that time , the working class dependably supported the parties of the left . the only political space left for fascism was the petit bourgeoisie : shopkeepers , small businessmen , and low-level civil servants . today , the social basis of left-wing politics has vanished .
putting this aside , let us suppose that the decision before tsipras was so crucial and complex that it merited the exceptional step of a referendum . in that case , the event was supposed to reflect this complexity . it was supposed to be a careful and deliberate sounding . it was supposed to be organized and conducted with due respect to the stakes involved , with the government ensuring that adequate information was relayed to the greek people . instead , greece got a hastily arranged referendum .
in circumcision ’s case , there are obvious tensions not only between religious freedom and individuals ’ physical integrity , but also between parental rights and authority , multiculturalism and nationalism , and religious and secular moral perspectives . moreover , different communities prioritize human rights differently . for some , the moral framework offered by human rights is sufficient in itself ; but , for others , as william galston of the brookings institution notes , “ the language of human rights hardly exhaust the realm of moral and spiritual goods . ” in other words , culture plays a much larger role in shaping interpretations of human rights than many realize , which implies that human-rights practitioners should be wary of passing judgment on any practice with deep cultural or religious roots . as the cultural psychologist richard shweder notes , circumcision featured conflicts between europeans and middle easterners for centuries .
new delhi – there is something about the number of five in sino-indian relations . asia ’s two giants have long defined their relationship with respect to the famous panchsheela : mutual respect for each other ’s territorial integrity and sovereignty ; mutual non-aggression ; mutual non-interference in each other ’s internal affairs ; equality and mutual benefit ; and peaceful co-existence . now , china ’s new leaders have enunciated a new panchsheela , with president xi jinping offering a “ five-point proposal ” for sino-indian relations . updated principles would maintain strategic communication and sound bilateral relations ; harness each other ’s strengths and expand cooperation in infrastructure , investment , and other areas ; deepen cultural ties and enhance mutual understanding and friendship ; expand coordination and cooperation in multilateral affairs to safeguard developing countries ’ legitimate interests and address global challenges ; and accommodate each other ’s core concerns and reconcile bilateral disagreements amicably . india would be happy to embrace each of these principles .
for 25 years , the bank tried to get governments out of agriculture , leaving impoverished peasants to fend for themselves . the result has been disaster in africa , with farm productivity stagnant for decades . the bank has also pushed for privatization of national health systems , water utilities , and road and power networks , and grossly underfinanced these critical sectors . this extreme free-market ideology , also called “ structural adjustment , ” has gone against the practical lessons of development successes in china and the rest of asia . practical development strategies recognize that public investment – in agriculture , health , education , and infrastructure – is necessary complements to private investment .
putin ’s authority may seem unshakeable , but in fact it is propped up by propaganda and fear . when america betrays its own values to avoid challenging russia , it strengthens putin ’s hand considerably . meanwhile , the perception that he has the us on the ropes enables putin to continue silencing his opponents . in the run-up to next year ’s presidential election , putin will not hesitate to take advantage of the leeway foreign leaders give him . already , he has ensured that opposition leader alexei navalny was convicted of embezzlement , giving the government an excuse to bar him from the ballot .
with energy prices moving center stage , there is a danger that already-weak incentives for low-carbon investment will further undermine investment . across europe , calls for “ affordable energy ” are fast becoming a euphemism for increased fossil-fuel subsidies and a rollback of green energy commitments . recent debates in the uk illustrate the emerging fault lines . five years ago , britain broke the international mold by enacting legislation mandating an 80 % cut in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 . today , political leaders openly attack “ burdensome ” green taxes .
indeed , for all practical purposes , pro-market reforms are dead . a kleptocracy of government officials , their families , and well-connected businessmen colonized the chinese state , and is intent on blocking any reforms that might threaten their privileged status . moreover , the ccp can no longer count on rising prosperity to sustain public support . rampant corruption and rising inequality , together with obvious environmental decay , are causing ordinary chinese – especially the middle class , which once had high hopes for reform – to become increasingly disillusioned . at the same time , given rapid population aging , china ’s demographic dividend has all but dissipated .
apart from another reasonably productive nuclear security summit in seoul in march 2012 , the news on the disarmament front over the past year has certainly been bleak . further us-russia arms-reduction negotiations ground to a halt long before america ’s presidential election season began . meanwhile , no other nuclear-armed state has expressed the slightest interest in bilateral or multilateral negotiations until the two major powers that currently hold 95 % of the world ’s stockpile make further major cuts . cautious initial moves by the us to modify its nuclear doctrine – toward accepting that nuclear weapons ’ “ sole purpose ” is to respond to nuclear threats , rather than to any other kind – have gone nowhere . negotiations to “ de-alert ” the 2,000 nuclear weapons that remain absurdly dangerous , cold war-era readiness never really started .
in the process , he transformed a country that was in the grip of drug barons and on the verge of becoming a failed state . colombia ’s professionalism in armed forces , coupled with uribe ’s popularity and a growing economy , delivered , for the first time in three decades , normality to colombia ’s cities and , increasingly , peace and the rule of law to much of its vast jungle regions . uribe ’s own own amorphous lessness brought waves of defections from the farc , which is now down to 9,000 farc guerrillas from a peak of 16,000 in 2001 . indeed , many farc defectors now prefer to fight for their cause at the ballot box under the new left-wing polo alternativo democratico . but the benefits of uribe ’s apparent defeat of the farc extend far beyond colombia . the hostage rescue mission also forced chávez , still recovering from his failed power-grab referendum last year ( a moment when chávez ’s own high command allegedly refused his demand to fudge the result ) on the defensive .
but the fact remains that a significant share of the world ’s 30 million displaced children – 12 million of whom are refugees – will go through their school-age years without ever setting foot in school . across the world , 35 conflict zones , 75 million children are currently being denied both education and the prospect of future employment . obviously , international education aid will have to increase . yet , with a $ 40 billion annual funding gap for primary and secondary education alone , it is also clear that we need a new approach . in addition to mobilizing private sources of finance , we must make the already available aid ( $ 13 billion this year ) far further than it has in the past , by creating incentives for recipient governments to increase their own investments in education .
and , indeed , a significant share of greece ’s government debt migrated from banks to robust public institutions like the european central bank and the international monetary fund . in that sense , those public institutions have already bailed out largely private institutions . but the risks have not been eliminated . the margin for major banks and other financial institutions is narrow . because they are not yet strongly capitalized , modest losses from outright defaults and indirect losses by companies with business in greece can threaten bank equity , causing bankers to cut back on lending .
for example , it would be useful to monitor programs to monitor how many people with high blood pressure have been diagnosed and placed on treatment , what proportion of those on treatment have achieved blood-pressure control , and what level of treatment would be required to reduce premature deaths by the desired target . finally , the aids effort was able to expand as a result of strong advocacy and collaborations that reshaped markets for diagnostic and treatment programs . by forecasting medications needs , aggregating orders , and promoting competition , in combination with intense advocacy , policymakers and providers were able to secure market efficiencies . the resulting economies of scale allowed suppliers to shift from low volume , high-margin solutions to high-volume , low-margin profit models . as a result , these efforts lowered the cost of annual hiv treatments from more than $ 10,000 per patient in 2001 to less than $ 100 in 2016 .
just before last year ’s trade talks in cancun , the us made some concessions so that it was no longer the only holdout . in its bilateral trade agreements , however , the us is demanding what is becoming known as “ trips plus , ” which would strengthen intellectual property rights further , to ensure that countries have only the right to produce inexpensive generic drugs during epidemics and other emergencies . the global consensus , reflected in the us commission ’s report , calls for more exceptions , so that , say , drugs can be made available in any case where to do so could save a life . to those confronting the prospect of death , what matters is access to life-saving drugs , not whether what is killing a person is part of an epidemic . bilateral agreements form the basis of enhanced ties of friendship among countries .
meanwhile , the pace of chinese spending growth will not change dramatically . as a result , chinese policymakers have been waiting to see whether the american recovery is real . if it does , china ’s exports will grow more rapidly . and if its exports grow more rapidly , they can allow the renminbi to rise . without that exchange-rate adjustment , faster export growth would expose the chinese economy to the risk of overheating .
when i joined the imf in the early 1980s , discussions with nongovernmental counterparts , whether on the country or the policy work , were discouraged . broader national engagement today is very different . broader national engagement – with ngos , local media , and a broad set of policymakers – is now viewed as an integral part of effective country advice and program implementation , as well as being essential to the fund ’s “ surveillance ” function under its article of agreements . a similar pivot is needed if the imf is to deliver better on the supra-national issues that are now migrating its policy agenda . specifically , the fund would need to complement its traditional core constituency of governments and other multilateral institutions ( particularly the world bank ) with systemically influential sub-national and private counterparts .
once slow to respond , the world is acting now . thirty countries have recently signed up to lucens or safe school guidelines instruct their military agencies how to prevent schools from using war as instruments . leila zerrougui , the un secretary-general ’s special representative for children and armed conflict , recommends designating abductions of children from schools a “ trigger violation ” for naming terrorist organizations in the secretary-general ’s annual report to the security council . and , thanks to the united nations children ’s fund ( unicef ) , the global coalition to protect education from attack , the global business coalition for education , and former nigerian finance minister ngozi okonjo-iweala , nigeria has now piloted the concept of safe schools . this has meant funding school guards , fortifications , and surveillance equipment to reassure parents and pupils that everything possible is being done to ensure that their school is safe to attend .
this is why greece is insolvent and coercive restructuring of its public debt is inevitable . it is why spain and ireland are in serious trouble , and why italy – which is on relatively sounder fiscal footing , but has had flat per capita income for a decade and little structural reform – can not be complacent . as fiscal austerity implies more recessionary and deflationary pressures in the short run , one would need more monetary stimulus to compensate and more domestic demand growth – via delayed fiscal austerity – in germany . but the eurozone ’s two largest policy players – the european central bank and the german government – want no part of this agenda , hoping that one-quarter of good gdp data makes a trend . the rest of the eurozone is in barely better shape than the periphery : bond vigilantes may not have woken up in france , but economic performance has been anemic at best – fueled mostly by the mini housing boom .
europeans were thought by the french political class to be the solution . but europe and europe could increasingly catalysts for public resentment . jospin and chirac have done nothing to implement the grand liberalization program ( including energy , financial services , and transport ) agreed among eu members in lisbon two years ago , which means denying france the benefits of liberalization at a time when the public perceives the eu as imposing all sorts of restrictions on the french way of doing business . it is time for france to abandon the indulgence of french exceptionalism ( “ l’exception francaise ” ) and to initiate serious reforms that engage the french electorate . le pen ’s newfound prominence may yet prove beneficial if it forces the mainstream political establishment to heed popular concerns and address the country ’s problems .
people in places like france and poland , who worry about national decline , seek to blame somebody outside the eu . there was certainly much of this type of sentiment in the 1930 ’s , when the populist response to the great depression attributed it to the sinister forces of “ international capital . ” the modern version of this explanation holds that the world is changing so quickly that national security and , indeed , national identity are under threat . an alternative scenario suggests that these fears emanate from a real problem . modern economic growth still depends on almost every advanced industrial country on imported energy ( norway is an exception ) .
his other name , abu mazen , is not a revolutionary name , but reflects the practice of naming a person as the father of his eldest son . abbas ’s son , mazen , is running a local advertising agency . in his attempt to counter arafat ’s political corruption and micro-management , abbas lost whatever chance he had to maintain fatah leadership loyalty , newly appointed pa officials , security personnel , and , most important , local militants . calling for national elections , while politically correct , was political suicide , for he lacked any idea of a possible outcome , and did very little to ensure fatah ’s discipline . an attempt at the primary to choose fatah candidates backfired , owing to fraud and losers ’ refusal to honor the results .
new york – for four decades , ledra street in nicosia was a symbol of a divided cyprus . and then , two years ago this april , the wall that split the capital into northern and southern cyprus opened . slowly , people who had not mingled for 44 years began to renew their ties and rediscover one another . it was a window onto what the future might bring . last week , i visited the ledra street crossing .
but if the proposals discussed in beijing last month are realized , the resulting fta could surpass nafta in its degree of integration and significance to the global economy . moreover , the formation of the china-japan-south korean fta would most likely trigger a chain-reaction . for example , momentum could expand southward and stimulate asean , which has bilateral ftas with all three countries , to join the asean group . such a turn of events would be equivalent to establishing the east asia free trade area , which asean +3 envisioned a decade ago . if that happened , other countries – australia , new zealand , and , most important , india – might seek to jump on the bandwagon .
compare this with antibiotic treatment , say , urogenital infection , which lasts a few weeks at most . as a result , adherence to tb drug treatment is particularly weak , paving the way for the emergence of multidrug-resistant ( mdr ) tb , which can no longer be treated by conventional therapeutic regimes . some 50 million people are infected with the “ cle bacilli ” that are mdr . while treating mdr-tb remains possible , doing so is arduous , with a treatment time of roughly two years , using drugs that are neither as efficient nor as benign as canonical drugs – and at a cost that rises by a factor of $ 10-100 . while this additional cost can be borne by health-care systems in the rich world , it is excessive for poor countries , implying no or insufficient treatment .
market forces , of course , play a role , too ; but markets are shaped by politics ; and in america , with its quasi-corrupt campaign-finance system and its revolving doors between government and industry , politics is shaped by money . for example , a bankruptcy law that privileges derivatives over all else but does not allow the discharge of student debt , regardless of how inadequate education has been provided , enriches bankers , and impoverishes many at the bottom . in a country where money trumps democracy , such legislation has become predictably frequent . but growing inequality is not inevitable . there are market economies that perform better , both in terms of gdp growth and rising living standards for most citizens .
former secretary of state and democratic candidate hillary clinton , by contrast , and leading republican contender donald trump , have opposed reform of social security and medicare . senator bernie sanders , the democratic rival hillary clinton , actually proposes expanding the programs ’ unfunded liabilities . with so few presidential candidates recognizing the link between reforming social security and medicare , and ensuring broadly shared prosperity , america faces serious risks . the progressive redistributive agenda could continue to advance , or the conservative entitlement-reform agenda could fail . either way , the us would face growth-limiting tax increases and limits on contributions that public investment can make to the country ’s future .
the austrians are right that haider-like parties exist in many european countries – in britain , france , even in some scandinavian countries . but in all these countries , the political discourse of all democratic parties ostracized these racist groups and parties : british conservatives never entered into an alliance with the british national front ; the same goes for france , where french conservatives expelled from their own party local leaders who have fashioned municipal alliances with le pen ’s representatives . this is precisely what the austrian conservative people ’s party under wolfgang schuessel has done . confronted with an election outcome of whether to rejoin the social democrats or haider ’s freedom party , they have made a faustian pact with haider . there may be good political reasons why another alliance with the social democrats was not appealing to schuessel ’s party ( for one , he would not be chancellor in such a coalition ) .
the congressional budget office projects that even with no additional legislation , the debt-to-gdp ratio will rise to 91.2 % by 2027 . the direct effect of the $ 1.5 trillion shortfall implied by the tax reform would be to raise that to 97 % . a military emergency or economic downturn would call for additional debt-financed spending or tax cuts . but even a massive spending program like the $ 900 billion american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 would add only an additional three percentage points to the debt ratio . it is hard to believe that a 97 % debt ratio would make it more difficult to achieve than the 92 % debt-to-gdp ratio .
the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) strongly condemned any attempt to “ usurp the popular will of côte d’ivoire ’s people and appeals to all stakeholders to accept the results that the electoral commission declared . ” ecowas was chair , and nigerian president goodluck jonathan called on all parties to “ respect and fully implement the verdict of ivorian people as declared by an independent electoral commission . ” and us president barack obama congratulated ouattara , saying that the world would “ hold those acting to thwart the democratic process and the will of the electorate accountable for their actions . ” the african union also reacted promptly . its peace and security council met , and expressed the au ’s categorical rejection of any attempt to create a fait accompli that undermines the electoral process .
seoul – has the world entered a new era of chaos ? american vacillating policy toward syria certainly suggests so . indeed , the bitter legacy of invasions in iraq and afghanistan , followed by the 2008 financial crisis , has made the united states reluctant not only to use its military might , even as “ red lines ” are crossed , but also seemingly unwilling to shoulder any serious burden to maintain its global leadership position . but , if america is no longer willing to lead , who will take its place ? china ’s leaders have demonstrated their lack of interest in active global leadership by openly rejecting calls to become a “ responsible stakeholder ” in the international political and economic system .
ethanol accounts for more than 50 % of the country ’s current light-vehicle fuel demand , and petrobras – brazil ’s energy giant and one of latin america ’s largest companies – expects this share to increase to more than 80 % by 2020 . our research shows that industrial policy was successful in promoting brazil ’s competitive bioethanol industry . a massive stimulus package , prompted by the 1970 ’s , gave the country ’s rise to oil prices entirely new industries . but it would not have worked without the critical role that competition plays . brazil was attempting to become energy self-sufficient in a manner similar to other countries ’ modern efforts .
indian fathers still sometimes repay debts by committing their children to bonded labor . pakistani parents occasionally maim their children to make them beguiling beggars . sadly , families are often the latest to protest exploitation of their children . the ilo contends that children suffer greatly when they are forced to perform as “ small adults . ” child creativeness and ability to transcend reality are blunted , “ states one ilo report , ” and its entire mental world are impoverished . ”
but , despite its wealth and military might , america ’s ability to project political power – for good or ill , for at least five reasons : america ’s budget is in crisis . thanks to bush ’s tax cuts and military spending , which contributed $ 500 billion to budget deficits per year , america will have to raise taxes and limit budget spending , whether or not bush is re-elected . the annual military budget , which has increased by $ 150 billion since bush took office , will have to be cut in coming years to get the budget under control ; america is borrowing massively from abroad . asia ’s central banks have bought hundreds of billions of dollars of us securities . japan alone has foreign exchange reserves of around $ 750 billion , much of that in america ’s treasury bills .
so far , while no globally devastating monetary attacks have been found outside the realm of cinematic fantasy . to be sure , there have long been political efforts to undermine or replace the dollar as the dominant global currency . the most seductive alternative seems to have been gold . russian theorists of “ eurasia ” often tout traditional russian iconography ’s use of fine metal . in 2001 , then-malaysian prime minister mahathir mohamad tried to introduce a “ gold dinar ” as an answer to the us-based currency system .
my profit for correctly taking this bearish view is therefore € 1.65 m – the € 9.1 m i got by selling the bonds when i borrowed on january 1 , minus the € 7.2 m that i had to pay to repurchase them on june 30 , minus the € 250,000 in interest that i had to pay goldman sachs for the six-month loan . voilà – a successful “ short ” trading . of course , a single short seller can not “ make ” the asset price ( unless george soros , whose famous bet against the british pound in 1992 made him a billionaire and forced britain out of the european exchange-rate mechanism ) . but if a bunch of speculators decide ( rightly or wrongly ) that government debt is overpriced , they can force its price to fall , thereby forcing its yield ( the interest rate that the government must pay ) . if the attack persists , speculators can force the government to default on its debt unless it can find a way to finance its borrowing more cheaply .
to the extent that tariffs reduce china ’s exports , the government and the central bank can offset the economic impact by stimulating domestic demand . the chinese economic slowdown this year has been due almost entirely to deliberate decisions to deleverage , cut borrowing by local governments , reduce over-investment in infrastructure , and curb booming house prices by tightening monetary policy . all of these austerity policies can easily be softened or reversed . doubts about the chinese government ’s willingness to shift economic policy from tightening to stimulus have dispelled in the last few weeks . clear statements from policymakers , all the way up to xi , have signaled that china will not permit any further weakening of the economy next year , even if that means accepting larger budget deficits or easing on bank deleveraging and monetary tightening .
this was the age of village blacksmith , weaver , potter , and cobbler . in the eighteenth century , shipping technology improved enough to allow the creation of global supply chains . cotton was one of the first industries to witness this shift . slaves from africa were used to grow cotton in the southern united states , which was then shipped to english mills . finished cloth then exported to the rest of the world .
is it “ always represented ” by the lone political party ? but advanced culture played no part in the ccp-inspired “ wipe out poisonous weeds campaign , ” or the “ elimination of demons and evil heresy ” campaign . such obscurantism only creates a culture of stultifying uniformity . like a grassroots blade beneath a stone , culture knows how and in which direction to seek light . it does not need to be “ represented . ”
in 2006 , president olusegun obasanjo , then nigeria ’s president , was among the first to do so . uganda ’s president yoweri museveni followed suit when signing the anti-gay bill into law in 2014 . other leaders , from gambia president yahya jammeh to zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , spoke in the same vein . these official attitudes have caused significant suffering for africa ’s gays and lesbians . indeed , the price of homophobia for gay people in many african countries is painfully clear : legal sanctions , social ostracism , and mob justice .
still , it seems that china ’s share , at around 30 % , will be the largest of the 57 participating countries , which could effectively give it a near-veto over aiib decisions . that underscores the main concern among development economists and observers of international relations as the aiib ’s birth approaches . will it turn out to be the people ’s bank of china , the people ’s bank of china , and the adb , or will it pursue a multilateral agenda in the way of the world bank and regional development banks like the asian development bank ( adb ) and the african development bank ( afdb ) ? china ’s explanation for its push to establish the aiib is that developing countries have inadequate access to infrastructure capital . perhaps more important , they have insufficient voice in the world bank , the international monetary fund , and the adb .
at the international monetary fund ’s annual meeting in october , the fund ’s chief economist , olivier blanchard , fueled controversy by pointing out that in recent times , governments tended to underestimate the adverse growth consequences of fiscal consolidation . they typically assumed that cutting public spending by the dollar would reduce gdp by 50 cents in the short term ; by blanchard , the true outcome in current conditions is the $ 0.90-1.70 decline . that is a large gap , but also a perplexing finding : how can there be so much uncertainty ? contrary to what such forecasting disparities may suggest , economists actually know a lot about the consequences of fiscal policy , at least far more than they used to know . until the 1980 ’s , it was routinely assumed that the so-called “ multiplier ” – the debt-to-gdp ratio to change in government spending – was stable and larger than one .
worse , suggestions of their actual use have been made . military planners who view the use of nuclear weapons have probably given scant thought to those living in cities on their target lists . for too long , cities ’ residents have been used as pawns on the global nuclear chessboard , with little concern for the full implications of playing the game . but , as the public is educated about the specific threats that nuclear weapons continue to pose to cities in which they live , that stance will become increasingly difficult to maintain . at the same time , people worldwide must stop regarding one another as untrustworthy enemies .
these groups have been able to capitalize on the economic and social pain felt in many eu member states , especially given the unconvinced majority of europeans that the worst is over . moreover , right-wing populist parties have taken advantage of growing public frustration with the eu itself . many europeans oppose the idea of “ more europe , ” the mantra of eu traditionalists in the two major party families , the european people ’s party ( epp ) , and the social democrats . the influence of widening disparities between the eu ’s affluent “ north ” and the stumbling “ south , ” with france in the middle ( but headed south ) , has also been evident . and the massive prosperity gap between “ old ” and “ new ” eu member states continues to determine voting patterns .
they raise their glasses , filled with the finest scotch sprinkled with fine powder . not gold powder , as lesser moguls might offer , nor even purest cocaine . no , this is far rarer and costlier : it pulverized the white rhino horn . a half-century ago , white rhinos abounded in africa . today , the international union for nature conservation estimates that only 25,000 still roam the continent , mostly in south africa , with a handful in namibia and kenya .
dubai – the global financial crisis has taught the world how profoundly interdependent our economies have become . in today ’s crisis of extremism , we must recognize that we are just as interdependent to our security , as it is clear in the current struggle to defeat isis . if we are to prevent isis from teaching this lesson the hard way , we must acknowledge that we can not extinguish the fires of fanaticism by force alone . the world must unite behind a holistic drive to discredit the ideology that gives extremists power and restore hope and dignity to those whom they would recruit . isis certainly can – and will – be defeated militarily by an international coalition that is now assembling , and which the uae is actively supporting .
cambridge – this year ’s nobel prize in economic sciences went to george akerlof of the university of california at berkeley , michael spence of stanford university , and myself for our work on the “ asymmetry of information . ” what is that work about , and why did we commit it ? for two hundred years , economists used simple economic models that assumed that information was perfect – i.e. , that all participants had equal and transparent knowledge of the relevant factors . they knew that information was imperfect , but hoped that a world with moderate imperfections of information would be akin to a world with perfect information . we showed that this notion was ill-founded : even small imperfections of information could have profound effects on how the economy behaved .
the bankers ’ pursuit of self-interest ( greed ) did not lead to the well-being of society ; it did not even serve their shareholders and bondholders well . it certainly did not serve homeowners who are losing their homes , workers who lost their jobs , pensioners who saw retirement funds vanish , or taxpayers who paid hundreds of billions to bail out the banks . under the threat of a collapse of the entire system , safety net – intended to help unfortunate individuals meet the life exigencies – was generously extended to commercial banks , then to investment banks , insurance firms , auto companies , even car-loan companies . never before has so much money been transferred from so many to so few . we are accustomed to thinking about government transferring money from the well off to the poor .
the practical result – ukraine remaining unaligned in military and security terms – would reflect ukraine ’s will as a whole . this approach would be consistent with the principle that us president barack obama highlighted when announcing the latest round of sanctions against russia last month that ukraine must be allowed to chart its own path . ” above all , it would help ukraine ’s people – divided between inherently antagonistic identities – to live together peacefully . of course , ukraine ’s position may change in the future , with cultural , demographic , and economic shifts producing the needed consensus to abandon neutrality . what is important is that the constitution requires a super-majority – rather than , say , the easily reversible “ non-bloc ” resolution that ukraine adopted in 2010 – to join a military alliance .
in the years ahead , the most important fiscal challenge facing east european and nis governments will be to reduce the size of social spending to a more reasonable portion of gdp . political elites – at home and from abroad – will have to focus public attention on the looming fiscal crisis . the public should understand the crucial difference between a one-time transfer to old workers at the start of market reform and a long run on pension policy . in any viable long term arrangement , the level of benefits relative to wages should be reduced , retirement ages should be raised to international norms , and eligibility for special pensions ( disability ) should be tightened to cover only the truly needed . in institutional terms , long-term reform should aim to shift to a retirement system based on individual savings accounts , as in chile , unlike the current state run , pay-as-you-go pension systems .
but that may well be followed by a second stage in which tight labor markets , populist nationalism , and industrial concentration begin to compensate for the one-time structural effects of new technologies that are widely adopted . and , on a third stage , the potential onset of higher inflation may pick up policymakers and investors by surprise , producing excessive reactions that make the situation worse . as with most paradigm shifts , there can be little certainty about the timing of this scenario . but , either way , policymakers in advanced economies must recognize that their inflation outlook is subject to a wider range of dynamic possibilities than they have considered so far . focusing too much on a cyclical rather than structural one , rather than structural , might pose serious risks to future economic well-being and financial stability .
the same goes for implementing the 2015 paris climate agreement , which will require ample investment in energy efficiency and renewable-energy sources to keep global temperatures from rising more than 2º celsius . the un ’s manifold agendas – peace and security , sustainable development , human rights , and humanitarianism – must be structurally integrated into one strategic continuum , rather than remaining rigid , self-contained institutional silos . multidisciplinary “ team un ” groups could be deployed in the field to break down departmental barriers and confront the appropriate challenges . groups would operate under a common mandate across all un agencies , and they would be led by un operations directors in each country . a fifth step should be to integrate women fully and equally into all parts of the un agenda , not just in discrete areas pertaining to “ women ” issues .
with an estimated 268 million people in extreme poverty in the latest survey from 2011 , india is home to the world ’s largest absolute number of poor people . each is on average 38 cents per day below the extreme poverty line , and the world ’s population is still the lowest in the world . for india , the cost adds up to almost $ 11 billion in exchange-rate terms . the most expensive countries in which to end poverty would be the democratic republic of congo and nigeria . in the drc , 77 % of the population is extremely poor , falling short of the poverty line , on average .
in recent decades , however , macroeconomic policy in most developing countries has become more pro-cyclical , largely exacerbating international financial markets and commodity prices . pro-cyclical fiscal adjustment tends to encourage a short-term orientation toward economic policy , which limits long-term investment in infrastructure and human capital , thereby constraining growth . more fiscal space can be created through improved governance and stronger tax bases , and for the poorest countries by achieving additional stable official development assistance ( oda ) channeled through national budgets . indeed , when oda is not determined by geopolitics , it can have a powerful positive effect on long-term growth , essentially because it supports investment in infrastructure and human development . finally , institutional reform involves more than creating markets and guaranteeing property rights .
european leaders need to get serious about the problem of cocaine . the “ white lady ” seducing a steadily growing number of europeans , and remaining in a state of denial , will only worsen the consequences . cocaine used to be america ’s problem , to the point that the united states has started a major campaign against sellers and consumers of crack cocaine in inner cities , drug traffickers , and suppliers in andes . but now demand for cocaine in much of the world is stable or dropping . coca cultivation has been slashed by a quarter in the last five years , with seizures of cocaine almost doubling .
berkeley – it has been one year since donald trump was elected president of the united states , and america ’s democratic institutions are clearly under strain . a mere 20 % of americans now trust the federal government to “ do the right thing , ” while trust in congress has fallen to less than 9 % . among congressional republicans , notably , a “ take-no-prisoners ” extremism is undermining the federal government ’s capacity for action , which is precisely what many on the far right want . according to some pessimists , the american constitution was not designed to address the challenges of a country so sharply divided by income , race , and partisanship . yet state and local governments remain trusted by a majority of voters , and have the power under the tenth amendment of the american constitution to strengthen democratic institutions .
the european parliament has consistently denounced belarus as europe ’s last dictatorship , yet eu member governments continue business as usual with aleksander lukashenka , the country ’s wayward and near lunatic despot . this is especially true when there is a chance to save or make money . for example , for more than a decade , germany ’s police forces , customs service , and even the bundeswehr have ordered uniforms from a state-owned factory in the town of dzherzinsky , named after the father of the red terror and the founder of the soviet kgb , the country ’s own father , and the founder of the soviet kgb , the country ’s dzherzinsky . similar examples of such indifferent cynicism abound . by treating lukashenka as an favored business partner simultaneously , the eu is trying to isolate him as an international pariah , european hypocrisy stands naked .
bond yields in southern europe were rising , and a pervasive sense of apprehension and fear cloaked governments in european capitals . but political leadership was sorely lacking . finally , decisive action was taken in december . a “ fiscal treaty , ” which would reinforce the stability and growth pact , and , importantly , implies automatic sanctions to ensure that eurozone members stick to those rules . at the same time , the european central bank unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) long-term refinancing operation , which pulled the european banking system back from the brink .
an analysis by ronald gilson , henry hansmann , and mariana pargendler of brazil ’s novo mercado – the stock exchange ’s special voluntary listing segment , which provides strong protections for investors in newly listed companies – supports this view . but stock exchanges have limits , particularly in brazil . in the absence of reliable courts , they can not sue to enforce their rules . their only recourse is to push recalcitrant firms off the exchange . novo mercado has dealt with this problem by subjecting disputes involving its newly-listed companies to arbitration .
new york – january is traditionally a time for assessing previous year ’s developments to anticipate what the new one has in store . unfortunately , while the us may be at a turning point for the better politically , the data that emerged in the last month paint no promising picture of the global economy ’s short-term prospects . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
but , again , this contradicts traditional trade dynamics , in which one country ’s success does not imply hardship for another . in theory , of course , a simultaneous shift in several countries toward stem-focused secondary and higher education – with large concomitant productivity gains – could diminish the competitiveness of an economy that has made no such effort . but this scenario is highly unlikely , at least for the foreseeable future . in fact , the proliferation of highly specialized european universities has failed to buttress economic growth or employment . and translating comprehensive universities into specialized institutes of science and technology in the soviet union and communist china has done nothing to avert economic disaster in those economies .
first , all were caused by a profound social-welfare crisis : falling output , rising unemployment , large budget deficits , inflation , and devaluation . without severe crisis , no significant reform was likely . second , a change of government through elections prompted reforms , giving them democratic legitimacy . reform does not require a state of emergency , as is often argued . third , reforms require a strong leader .
indeed , with profitability at or near record levels , corporate cash holdings in the united states piled up quarter after a quarter , reaching all-time highs – and earning very little at today ’s near-zero interest rates . moreover , because companies have significantly improved their operating efficiency and lengthened maturities on their debt , they need a lot less precautionary savings than they have done in the past . one looks at it , however , the corporate sector in advanced economies more broadly , and especially in the us , is as strong as it has been in many years . non-financial firms have achieved a mix of resilience and agility that contrasts sharply with prevailing conditions for some households and governments around the world that have so far faced a adequately legacy of over-leverage . but , rather than deploying their abundant cash in new investments to expand capacity and tap new markets – which they have been very hesitant to do since the global financial crisis erupted – many companies have so far preferred ( or were pressured by activist investors ) to give it back to shareholders .
purely from the standpoint of economic potential and fundamentals , the case is far stronger for south korea , a sophisticated economic power whose primary responsibility is the danger that the regime of its evil twin to the north will collapse and inundate it with starving refugees . the same is true of turkey , with its robust banking sector , thriving domestic market , growing prominence in the middle east , and energy politics , nato membership , the european union ’s bid , and ties to ethnic cousins across central asia . perhaps the most compelling case for all is that indonesia , the world ’s largest muslim state , with a rapidly expanding middle class , relatively stable democratic politics , and an economy that has been a star performer in asia , despite the global recession . from an american perspective , indonesia is an attractive alternative to russia , which recently vied with venezuela for leadership of the “ america decline ” in cheering section . indonesia , too , has shown resilience not only economically , but also as a nation .
a good example is the allegation that the “ responsibility to protect ” principle is inherently flawed , because major powers will always be immune from intervention , not only because five of them can exercise a security council veto , but also because of their intrinsic military strength . but this ignores the principle that no military intervention will ever be legitimate unless it satisfies , among other criteria , diminishing test , not augmenting , human suffering . and going to war against any of the major powers to protect a suffering minority would certainly trigger a much wider conflagration . the bottom line is that values matter in international relations , and states that place great emphasis on values promotion are extremely vulnerable to charges of hypocrisy . no state that aspires to win the support or cooperation of others can afford to be seen comfortable with unambiguous double standards . and , worst of all , one can see soft power on those who , like egypt ’s current military rulers , commit mass-atrocity crimes against their own citizens .
ssez ’s recent denial that any company operating there has been fined the us reinforces the suspicion that hun sen ’s government will continue to turn a blind eye . this might be good for a corrupt few , but it is bad for cambodia . already , the country ’s deteriorating record on democracy and human rights threatens its tariff-free access to the european union market , provided through the bloc ’s “ everything but arms ” trading regime . the last thing cambodia needs is also to risk economic reprisal for helping chinese firms dodge us tariffs . yet that seems to be precisely what hun sen ’s government plans to do .
some important economies are still fighting deflation , and the us is still suffering from the global economy . more than 200 million people are unemployed , and the us is now suffering from the global economy . the global economy risks becoming stuck in a “ new mediocre ” – a prolonged period of slow growth and weak job creation . to break free from stagnation , we need renewed policy momentum . if the measures that leaders have agreed at the g-20 assembled in november are implemented , they will lift world gdp by more than 2 % by 2018 – the equivalent of adding $ 2 trillion in global income .
should it undergo further simultaneous transformation and enlargement ? the albright report tries to address these questions in a balanced way . it endorses policies that capture precisely the relationship between “ outside area operations ” and members ’ commitment to their mutual self-defense under article 5 of the north atlantic treaty . it further rightly suggests that nato ’s strategic political and military objectives could be achieved jointly with russia through greater stability , mutual transparency , predictability , and arms reduction verified by non-proliferation and arms-control agreements .
one is north korea , whose recent behavior has been clever and delusional . the north koreans have violated their agreements , knowing that china , a country with the greatest potential leverage , is most concerned with regime collapse in north korea , and thus the threat of chaos on its borders . japan officially endorses the goal of a non-nuclear world , but relies on america ’s extended nuclear deterrent and wants to avoid being subject to nuclear blackmail from north korea ( or china ) . the japanese fear that the credibility of american extended deterrence will be weakened if the us reduces its nuclear forces to parity with china . it is a mistake , however , to believe that extended deterrence depends on parity in the number of nuclear weapons .
berkeley – back in the late 1990 ’s , in america at least two schools of thought pushed for more financial deregulation – that is , repealing the legal separation of investment banking from commercial banking , relaxing banks ’ capital requirements , and encouraging more aggressive creation and derivatives use . if deregulation looks like such a bad idea now , why did n’t it then ? the first school of thought , broadly , that of the united states republican party , financial regulation was bad , because all regulation was bad . the second , broadly speaking , was somewhat more complicated by the democratic party , and was based on four observations : · in the global economy ’s industrial core , at least it had been more than 60 years since financial disruption had more than a minor impact on overall output and employment levels .
it is grotesque that so many people who stand to benefit from such “ socialist ” policies are still persuaded to vote against them because they are supposedly “ un-american . ” concentrating on egalitarianism would appeal to liberals , of course , but it should not alienate moderate voters either , because more equality would be good for the economy . and it might even persuade some angry , poor trump supporters to recognize that his pseudo-populism is not about helping the left-behind folks in rust belt towns and rural hinterlands . it is about giving even more money . the democrats ’ core message for the next two years should be that in a plutocracy , everyone else loses .
but neither wants to be the “ chicken , ” because that would undermine their domestic political standing and empower the other side . still , without a deal by year ’s end , a collision becomes likely . as the clock ticks down , a bad outcome becomes more likely . similarly , trump thought that he could bully iran by abandoning the joint comprehensive plan of action and imposing severe sanctions . but iranians have responded by escalating their regional provocations , knowing full well that trump can not afford a full-scale war and an oil-price spike that would result from it .
but the scaf now seems to have realized that , in a leaderless situation , no civilian politician can grant immunity without becoming vulnerable to attack by rivals . moreover , scaf has weighed carefully with politicians and dissected their relative weakness , limited capacity , notorious opportunism , and widespread inconsistency . as a result , there is a growing belief within scaf that its three “ minimal ” demands have become both unnecessary and insufficient . in the last two months , scaf ’s behavior toward civilian politicians , civil-society actors , and , more recently , coptic communities have clearly reflected a change in attitude : “ you need immunity , guidance , and protection from us – not us from you . ” political polarization , sectarian incidents , weak economy , and the absence of security have dimmed egypt ’s prospects for a successful democratic transition .
higher debt-service costs require higher tax rates , which in turn weaken incentives and reduce economic growth . by the end of the decade , the american will have to pay an equivalent of more than one-third of personal-income taxes just to pay the national debt interest . foreign investors now hold more than half that debt . paying interest to them requires sending more goods and services to the rest of the world than the us receives from the rest of the world . that requires a weaker dollar to make american goods more attractive to foreign buyers , and to make foreign goods more expensive to american consumers .
indeed , aside from domestic policy matters and internal freedom issues , the choice between the major candidates hinges on whether iran should seek greater international integration . ahmadinejad stands for a policy of confrontation and partial isolation ; moussavi stands for more openness . a policy of opening up the country would therefore quickly put the regime ’s existence at risk . if ahmadinejad prevails , the dilemma for the west will be that he will have to deal with a regime discredited by election fraud , but still indispensable for resolving almost all of the middle east ’s important problems : iran ’s own nuclear program and conflicts in afghanistan , pakistan , iraq , lebanon , and palestine . iran is also a key player in cooling hot spots in the caucasus and central asia .
perhaps the most visible gains were on the external front . exports jumped from 5 % to 30 % of gdp , and gdp in inward foreign direct investment tripled . but where it counts – in overall productivity and economic growth – the story is one of substantial disappointment . since 1996 , per capita economic growth has averaged well below 1.5 % , and total factor productivity has stagnated or declined . if there was ever a country destined to be the poster child of the new orthodoxy in economic development , it was mexico .
after all , many asian countries have achieved impressive export-led growth under the current system . and bilateral or regional trade deals can chip away at some of the current global system ’s barriers . a fundamental problem , for example , is that the nature of global trade is constantly evolving , with existing agreements having only limited capacity to adapt . services like education , banking , accounting , and insurance account for an ever larger share of global output ( now roughly two-thirds ) , and further expansion requires significant changes in existing agreements . even if asia has succeeded relentlessly by exporting manufactures , today ’s poorest countries , especially in africa , can realistically export only agriculture and textiles .
a contemporary non-medical writer described the qualities of intense pain as including extreme unpleasantness , the ability to annihilate complex thoughts and other feelings , the ability to destroy language , and the strong opposition to objectification . she reminds physicians that for a person suffering intense pain , what dominates awareness above all else is a powerful negative emotion . most of the time , pain occurs after simple nerve endings detect tissue injury in various ways , generating signals that travel to spinal cord and from there to brain . for many years , researchers thought that these signals traveled along a few well-defined routes to reach relay stations in the brain called thalamus . from there , researchers believed that signals went to part of the brain ’s cortex , which managed body awareness , somehow turning them into conscious experience .
when capital flight forced françois mitterrand to abort his program in 1983 , france ’s socialists performed an abrupt volte-face and embraced financial liberalization on a global scale . according to harvard business school ’s rawi abdelal , this was the key event that set in motion developments that ultimately enshrine freedom of capital movement as the global norm . the first stop was the european union in the late 1980 ’s , where two french socialists – jacques delors and pascal lamy ( president of the european commission and his assistant , respectively ) – led the way . then it was the turn of the organization for economic cooperation and development ( oecd ) . in the end , the imf joined the bandwagon under michel camdessus , another frenchmen who served as governor of france ’s bank under mitterrand .
within 15 minutes of the general ’s face fading from the screen , 40 army units in algeria declared their loyalty . men at barricades were persuaded to leave their stronghold ; insurrectionary leaders either detained or escaped to spain . the military revolt ’s defeat was the first time that the republican authority of paris was asserted over pieds noirs , who helped to bring down the fourth republic . de gaulle ’s firmness and rhetoric – aided , it must be said , by the fumbling of the rebels – established the primacy of the state . the next day , de gaulle ’s face was drawn , but it was resolute and full of energy .
palestine ’s diplomatic promotion offered him a lifeline . have the israelis really wanted a resurgence of islamist violence in gaza , the potential collapse of peaceful politics on the west bank , and now the right of a recognized palestinian state to take israel to the international criminal court for war crimes ? if not , why are hamas so ham-fisted ? israel seems to be making the same mistake . it has been proven repeatedly that military intimidation of civilians does not break their morale and turn them against their own leaders , however appalling the regime .
fourth , the war in afghanistan has not only proceeded rapidly on the ground , but has led to a diplomatic breakthrough just as well . the un will play a central role in rebuilding a working government in that country , and in coordinating humanitarian assistance to the afghan people . the un ’s growing role in this process puts the seal of international law and diplomacy over the global struggle against terrorism , and helps to reassure many countries that this is a true international effort , not just the us acting alone . while these seem to be a grab-bag of achievements , they point to a single message : the world community is finding new ways to cooperate , even against a backdrop of terrorism and global recession . the growing role of international institutions under the un umbrella provides greater confidence that disputes can be addressed peacefully and even sensibly , with significant inputs of scientific expertise as they did in the un climate change treaty .
except for barely practical political rhetoric from leaders like hugo chávez in venezuela and evo morales in bolivia , there is nothing new on offer in the global electoral marketplace that differs very much from what is usually called neo-liberalism or the washington consensus . in other words , there is no longer a battle between different projects in any modern country , no left-right confrontation ( with their nuances ) that might raise voters ’ emotions . here , brazil is no different than the united kingdom , spain , or uruguay . indeed , brazil ’s upcoming election this year is like a soccer match between big teams , where supporters of one candidate and another are merely distinguished by the colors of their shirts , because the strongest teams accept the rules of the game and even tactics are similar . according to the socialist sociologist francisco de oliveira , coldness of the electoral landscape is closely related to one reality : the “ irrelevance ” of politics due to its “ financipiñation . ”
but the most important changes must come from within the media industry itself . because journalists ’ safety directly affects news organizations ’ employees , freelancers , and audiences , these organizations should report on the topic . with attacks on the press increasing , the old approach – prideful silence – no longer makes sense . if journalists use their platforms to inform the world of the dangers they and their colleagues face , the world will have to listen . violence against journalists has historically been an issue left behind .
rome – in 2010 , global leaders achieved the millennium development goal ( mdg ) of reducing the proportion of the world ’s poor to half its 1990 level – five years ahead of schedule . but rising unemployment and falling incomes underscore the enduring threat of poverty worldwide . after all , poverty is not an unchanging attribute of a fixed group ; it is a condition that threatens billions of vulnerable people . despite their shortcomings , income measures are useful in gaining a better understanding of the scale of poverty and vulnerability worldwide . but the world bank ’s poverty line of $ 1.25 per day ( in purchasing-power-parity terms ) , which is used in measuring progress toward the mdgs ’ poverty-reduction target , is not the only relevant threshold .
and an abundance of policy and regulatory uncertainties will keep private investment spending in check . the outlook for 2014 is dampened longer-term constraints as well . indeed , there is a looming risk of secular stagnation in many advanced economies , owing to the adverse effect on productivity growth of years of underinvestment in human and physical capital . and the structural reforms that these economies need to boost their potential growth will be implemented too slowly . while tail risks are lower , its fundamental problems remain unresolved : low potential growth ; high unemployment ; still-high and rising levels of public debt ; loss of competitiveness and slow reduction of unit labor costs ( which a strong euro does not help ) ; and exceptionally tight credit rationing , owing to banks ’ ongoing deleveraging .
but realizing that value is a long-term proposition . more immediately , to get the gas market in europe and elsewhere , a gas liquefaction plant costing some € 10 billion ( $ 325 billion ) needs to be built , and israeli investors have already expressed interest . the sheer size of cyprus ’s likely energy wealth , and the funding needed to develop it , dwarfs the country ’s current financial woes . yes , cyprus needs € 17 billion to remain in the eurozone , whereas its annual gdp is just € 23 billion . but these figures must be placed on the eu ’s gloomy overall energy picture – something that the ongoing debt negotiations have failed .
syriza is hardly alone in greece in blaming the eu for the country ’s woes . new democracy and pasok do much the same , attacking the eu , “ speculators , ” and hedge funds – anyone who might divert the public ’s attention from their own responsibility for the crisis . greece ’s largest private media , controlled by the country ’s oligarchs , are happy to oblige . thus , most television channels speak of a bailout deal just as tsipras does : as the proximate cause of austerity , the result of neoliberal dogma . as a result , for too many people in greece , austerity reflects germany ’s deranged obsession with discipline , not their country ’s profligacy .
after all , it was tiny qatar that brokered lebanon ’s domestic settlements , egypt that mediated the gaza cease-fire , and turkey that is facilitating the israeli-palestinian talks . israel ’s shift in policy toward syria , and french president nicolas sarkozy ’s administration , was a powerful message to the americans that they should not miss the lebanese train just as well . but america ’s dwindling leverage can not match the influence of the region ’s “ axis of evil . ” lebanon is too vulnerable to pressure from syria and iran , neither of which wants to see their local clients relieve the israelis of the burden of the “ lebanese front ” before their own grievances are addressed . nor is hezbollah keen to see the end of israel ’s occupation of sheba farms on lebanon ’s border undermine its claim to the formidable independent military force it has built with iranian and syrian help .
but with clarida ’s input , the fed will be more inclined to focus on actual inflation trends , rather than on official unemployment rates and its implications under traditional models . moreover , while fed staff members tend to believe that america ’s rate of potential growth is very low ( around 1.75-2 % ) , clarida , like powell , seems open to the idea that trump ’s tax cuts and deregulatory policies , combined with the next wave of technological innovation , will allow for a somewhat stronger non-inflationary growth . finally , clarida is spearheading an internal strategy review to determine whether the fed should start making below-target inflation during recessions and slow recoveries by allowing above-target inflation during expansionary periods . and , though the review remains early in its tracks , the fed has already seemed to have embraced the idea that it should allow inflation to surpass 2 % without triggering a tightening policy immediately . taken together , these factors suggest that the fed could remain in pause mode for the rest of 2019 .
it is governments – and thus taxpayers and bondholders – that finance nuclear plants . moreover , the supposed “ cost-savings ” of nuclear power never include the price tag for direct and indirect governmental subsidies , decommissioning of aging facilities , and emergency clean-up and remediation of impacted communities when disasters occur – all again , at taxpayers ’ expense . at fukushima , for example , the bill will include the costs of heroic efforts by hundreds of workers to cool down plant reactors ; protracted loss of economic output in the 20-kilometer exclusion zone ( estimated at $ 128.5 billion by roubini global economics ) ; decommissioning and clean-up costs ; and the cost of replacing 4.7 gigawatts of generating capacity . at the top of this , there is the possibility of health-care costs resulting from exposure to radioactivity . all of these hidden costs make nuclear energy prices higher than the price of shifting to renewable energies and improving energy efficiency .
otherwise , they would be stifling debate . this would run counter to what universities stand for . as a pragmatic matter , it would backfire as well , by giving the trump camp another opportunity to demonize the “ liberal elite . ” but clear rules of engagement are necessary . the most important principle to uphold is the distinction between hearing someone and honoring someone .
new york – like an inmate on death row , europe has received another last-minute stay of execution . it will survive a little longer . markets celebrate , as they have after each of the four previous “ european crisis ” summits – until they come to understand that fundamental problems have yet to be addressed . there was good news at this summit : european leaders finally understood that the bootstrap operation by which europe lends money to banks to rescue sovereigns , and sovereigns to rescue banks will not work . likewise , they now recognize that bailout loans that give new lender seniority over other creditors worsen private investors ’ position , who will simply demand even higher interest rates .
munich – the german constitutional court has delivered its long-awaited decision on the european central bank ’s “ outright monetary transactions ” program . since its launch in 2012 , the omt program has allowed the ecb to buy , if necessary , unlimited amounts of troubled eurozone countries ’ government bonds , provided affected countries subscribe to european rescue fund rules , the european stability mechanism . thousands of germans appealed to the constitutional court against the omt program , arguing that it violates article 123 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union , which bars monetary financing by eurozone governments and imposes substantial risks on german citizens as taxpayers . the court has now declared that it fully endorses the plaintiffs ’ arguments , and that the omt program does indeed violate eu primary law . but , rather than issuing a formal ruling that would constrain the bundesbank and the german parliament , as it could , the court has asked the european court of justice for its opinion .
and the capital-gains tax has fallen by more than 50 % since the 1980s . to build support for higher-risk public investment , perhaps taxpayers should receive a more direct return , by channeling profits into a public-innovation fund to finance the next wave of technologies . when upstream investment is in basic research , spillover effects across industries and sectors sometimes generate enough social rewards . but other cases might require creating alternative incentives . for example , some of the profits from the government ’s investment in tesla could have recovered through shares ( or royalties ) and used to cover the losses from its investment in solyndra .
unless the ecb ’s next leaders meet them , the euro itself will be at risk . complicating matters further , by 2020 , the european commission and the european council will each have a new president and leadership teams of their own , and the european parliament will sit a new generation of politicians who have not engaged in the past decade ’s compromises and reform . on the contrary , many will have been elected in a political environment of anger , diminished trust , and intra-eu fragmentation . still , there is a broad consensus that the eurozone will need more than monetary policy to ensure continued growth and stability . clearly , with interest rates at the zero lower bound , more monetarist fiscal-policy coordination is bound to be a necessity .
in the event , most social media-enabled popular uprisings failed to want effective leadership , and traditional political and military organizations retained the upper hand . in fact , these regimes began to wield social media for their own ends . we have all heard the allegations that russia covertly used social media to influence electoral outcomes in ukraine , france , germany , and , most famously , in the united states . facebook has estimated that russian content on its network , including posts and paid ads , reached 126 million americans , around 40 % of the national population . we should recall earlier accusations by russia of the west ’s role in fomenting the “ color revolutions ” in ukraine and georgia .
but he is not immune to miscalculation . mahmoud ahmadinejad , in 2005 , relied on khamenei ’s financial and political support to win the presidency . today , however , khamenei is profoundly regretful to that choice . ahmadinejad disobeys his orders , attempts to discredit him with the public by challenging his authority , and undermines key institutions , including the judiciary and parliament . it is an open secret in iranian political circles that khamenei also regrets permitting the basij militia volunteers to attack the british embassy last november .
but it is not clear whether china ’s leaders will recognize this and act in their own country ’s own long-term self interest . the point is not to single out china . similar questions apply to india and brazil . and it is not just the developing and emerging countries that must rethink their approach to the world . the us must do just that .
nor should we worry that some people are richer than others . some people work harder , apply their intelligence more skillfully , or simply lucky enough to be in the right place at the right time . but i do not see what alternative political-economic arrangements might make individuals ’ relative wealth closely correspond to their relative moral or other merit . the problems that can be addressed are those of poverty and social insurance – of providing safety net – not of inequality . but on the level of individual societies , i believe that inequality does loom as a serious political-economic problem .
more broadly , however , her point is that the us needs the fsoc to do its job – look for and assess all kinds of potential systemic risks . this needs to be done as a matter of technical importance , not as part of the political process . not everyone at the sec is as sensible as stein . there is also some friction among different regulators in the us , and we surely need more coordination across national borders – including with europe . but the real danger is that powerful lobbies , working through members of congress , are pushing back hard against the sec and its mandate .
the final factor driving iohannis ’s victory was the younger generation , in which connections with the western world imbued an eagerness to see genuine democratic progress in romania . when the results were announced , their euphoria was overwhelming . in bucharest ’s tiananmen square , celebration recalled the energy of 1989 ; it was the sound of an awakened electorate , mindful of its previous mistakes and ready for fresh start . iohannis may also have benefited , to some extent , from an association of voters ’ minds with the german hohenzollern kings who ruled romania wisely and with dedication for more than 80 years . and , indeed , on learning his victory , iohannis immediately paid a visit to king michael i ( hohenzollern prince until he renounced the title in 2011 ) .
while tens of millions of chinese young people display impressive innate abilities , the country ’s system of higher education does abysmal work cultivating their talents . for most , the curriculum is largely obsolete , skewed toward rote learning of theory at the expense of basic analytical and critical-thinking skills . education in the social sciences and humanities is particularly deficient , owing to a lack of investment in these disciplines and excessive political control of curricula . as a result , chinese graduate from colleges and universities has learned relatively little about the outside world in fields such as anthropocene , sociology , international relations , comparative literature , and history . unless china reforms its ossified system , the country will be unable to produce enough highly trained talent to compete with the world ’s best and brightest .
these reforms will create new markets , spur competition , attract foreign investment , and technology transfers , and improve consumer interests . finally , global economic conditions will compel even more restructuring in japan . japan has committed itself to further liberalization of its markets under the wto . while export expansion delivered growth this century , import substitution and inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) will lead to higher productivity in japan in the coming years . imports inspire a more competitive domestic business environment .
i believe that the west can learn a lot about what to do by studying policies pursued in the world ’s only two mid-development moslem states , tunisia and indonesia , because each successfully avoided becoming prey to islamic fundamentalism . tunisia ’s achievement is noteworthy , given its proximity to violence-prone algeria . both countries combined substantial increases in secular education with rapid job creation in manufacturing jobs ; stressed rural development and labor-intensive exports ; and pursued rapid , egalitarian development . egalitarian development of this sort is the only viable answer to moslem ’s problems in world politics . but it provides no short-term answer to terrorism for several reasons : it does not supply an ideology compelling enough to compete with fundamentalism , which has captured at least two generations in the moslem world .
new haven – yet another in a long string of negative inflation surprises is at hand . in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( the consumer price index ) – which excludes food and energy – has headed down just when it is supposedly going up . over the three months ending in may , core cpi has essentially been unchanged , holding at just 1.7 % above its year-earlier level . for a united states economy that is widely presumed to be nearing the hallowed ground of full employment , this comes as a rude awakening – particularly for the us federal reserve , which has pulled out all the stops to get inflation back to its 2 % target . halfway around the world , a similar story continues to play out in japan .
the nobel laureate economist amartya sen traces the origins of indian democratic dialogue to the third-century bc buddhist emperor ashoka . he also contrasts religious tolerance preached and practiced by muslim emperor akbar akbar in 1590 ’s with the inquisition , which was hounding heresy in europe at around the same time . our assumptions about asia ’s relative prosperity and the west should also be rethought . as recently as 200 years ago , asia accounted for 60 % of global gdp . following the northwestern european industrial revolution , however , asia ’s colonization of much of asia , and the opium wars in china , their relative positions switched .
the core protective legal institution for outside finance , federal securities laws , did not fall until the 1930s – decades after america ’s financial markets had grown to finance america ’s economic rise . britain and japan seem to have followed the same sequence : finance first , protection institutions later . japan had no corporate law until complex business finance started developing in the late nineteenth century . yet that sequence is the opposite of what one might have expected : only after financial markets developed those with a stake in them had a press for better legislation to protect investors . so , in britain , japan , and the us , something more foundational had to be put before financial markets began operating .
insufficient spending was never an issue of concern . from 1998 to 2007 , greece ’s annual per capita gdp growth averaged 3.8 % , the second fastest in western europe , behind only ireland . but by 2007 , greece had spent more than 14 % of gdp in excess of what it produced , the largest such gap in europe – more than twice that of spain and 55 % higher than ireland ’s . in spain and ireland , though , the gap reflected a construction boom ; european accession suddenly gave people access to much cheaper mortgages . in greece , by contrast , the gap was mostly fiscal and consumption , rather than investment .
true , the quality of democratic governance can sometimes be augmented by the reduction of discretion of elected representatives . well-functioning democracies often delegate rule-making power to quasi-independent bodies when issues at hand are technical and raise distributional concerns ; when log-rolling would otherwise result in sub-optimal outcomes for all ; or when policies are subject to myopia , with heavy discounting of future costs . independent central banks provide an important illustration of this . it may be up to elected politicians to determine the inflation target , but the means deployed to achieve that target are left to central bank technocrats . even then , central banks typically remain accountable to politicians , and must provide accounting when they miss the targets .
first , it is important to realize that a strong and overly volatile currency is not just the central bank ’s problem of fixing . while the central bank bears a good part of the responsibility , it needs support from other parts of the government , most notably from the finance ministry . maintaining a competitive currency requires a rise in domestic saving relative to investment , or a reduction in national expenditure relative to income . otherwise , the gains in competitiveness would be offset by rising inflation . this means that the fiscal authorities have a large responsibility : target a structural fiscal surplus that is high enough to generate the space needed for a real exchange-rate depreciation .
something about the narrative – the sex symbol sacrificing her fetishized breasts for her children , with her husband remaining by her side – is deeply reassuring to women in western culture . one can be reasonably certain , however , that jolie ’s decision will alter the roles that her has been available to her as an actress . as enthusiastically as the global mass media received her choice , it is nonetheless extraordinarily difficult in the west for a woman to be portrayed as maternal – let alone physically “ flawed ” or “ impaired ” – and also as a fantasy sex object . but jolie ’s real significance is its context : a wave of women and men , in very different settings around the world who insist on the self-immolation of their own meanings for events involving their bodies – events that , like breast cancer , were once shrouded in shame , silence , fear , or blame . jolie refused to treat mastectomy as scary or tragic – or , as making her “ less woman ” in any way .
it is this danger that sets the practical and political threshold to flexible exchange rates . some depreciation can be managed by most deficit countries ; but a vicious circle could be triggered if the domestic currency loses too much value too quickly . private-sector balance-sheet problems would weaken the financial sector , and the resulting pressures on public finances would compel austerity , thereby constraining consumer demand – and causing further damage to firms ’ balance sheets . to prevent such a crisis , therefore , the exchange rate has to be managed – and in a manner that depends on a country ’s particular circumstances . large net central-bank reserves can help ease the process .
free speech is more firmly protected by law in the us than anywhere else in the world . but barr ’s cancellation of the show was , of course , not a legal decision . the limits of free speech are not just legal . entertainment companies or mass media are sensitive to public opinion . people tend to get fired , for commercial reasons , if something they have said is deemed offensive to a large number of people .
not one has a muslim majority , but one that has been recognized within the muslim world . in the summer of 2002 , a team of arab scholars produced the arab human development report , written in the name of the un development program and the arab fund for economic and social development . it portrays the arab world lagging behind other regions in key measures , including individual freedom and women ’s empowerment , as well as economic and social development . disturbing trends , such as the demographic youth bulge , combined with high youth unemployment rates – reaching nearly 40 % in some places – highlight potentially explosive social conditions .
but , given the global balance of power , this was more symbolic than a reflection of their real influence . then came the cold war ’s end , when all europeans adopted staunch transatlantic orientation . in terms of security , europe remained dependent on the us . but on economic and technological fronts , europeans regained their sovereignty . institutionally , this division of labor manifested itself in nato and the eu , respectively .
he announced that he had hired emetic arad , a well-known israeli spin-doctor , to run his presidential campaign . “ the jews ” were not his enemies any more . but tudor did not stop with prolix apologies . soon , he sponsored unveiling of the assassinated israeli premier yitzak rabin at brasov in transylvania . for the occasion , tudor wore a yarmulke and spoke of his “ philo-semitism ” for more than two hours .
and independent investigative journalists in africa have often exposed high-level corruption , abuse of power , and shady business deals . in kenya , for example , a leading local newspaper reported that philip kinisu , a former chairman of the ethics and anti-corruption commission , received suspicious payments from the national youth service . further investigations into the nys exposed more corrupt deals , spurring kenyans to take to the streets in protest . but those with power know how to fight back – and do not pull their punches . as a result , in many african countries , the free press is being compromised , suppressed , and even dismantled .
china ’s economy has succeeded through trial and error , and the lesson of its current stress test should be viewed as part of that process , which is intended to drive the next phase of economic reform . one key lesson is that chinese stock markets remain structurally biased toward state ownership and guidance , even as the country builds a more entrepreneurial economy . this is fundamentally problematic , because it is the market ( rather than the state ) to identify and support unicorns . nonetheless , china has already begun to build a more innovative manufacturing sector and internet-driven retail sector , and the state can still play a role in fostering innovation . but , as the government determines how to offload its massive holdings of shares in an orderly manner , it must ensure that such efforts are financed by equity rather than leverage , thereby enhancing market balance and resilience .
his sudden departure due to illness might create a political vacuum , which could become conducive to a power grab of one form or another , such as military coup . strict adherence to constitutional provisions in any such eventuality is imperative . here , the lack of free media is particularly alarming , and does not bode well for free and fair elections . it is crucial that the opposition can freely air its message and target prospective voters – a point not lost on the chávez regime as it attempts to curtail further the opposition ’s ability to reach out to the electorate . the recent attack on globovision , venezuela ’s only surviving independent station , stands out in this regard .
what makes a decade difference is that it makes . during the 1990 ’s , private investors looked big , lumbering central banks as cash cows , long on money , and short on financial acumen . george soros once made a billion dollars off the bank of england in just one hour . his basic strategy was the standard one : bet against any central bank that tries to defend inconsistent macroeconomic policy . traders did not win every battle .
yet , contrary to expectations , the growth of household consumption has remained lackluster , with businesses ramped up investment . in the first two quarters of this year , america ’s gdp barely exceeded the level it attained at the end of last year , and much of the increase was fueled by goods that were produced but not yet sold . the prevailing explanation – brutally cold winter – wears so thin that everyone should see through it . american consumers remain scarred by the crisis . but there is another problem : in their homes and workplaces , the sense of excitement about the future is missing , despite all gee-whiz gadgetry that now surrounds them .
nowhere is the need to overcome financing bottlenecks more apparent than with germany ’s energiewende ( energy transition ) . to succeed , more than € 30 billion , or 1 % of gdp , will have to be invested annually in network infrastructure , renewable-energy generation combined heat and power systems , and storage technologies in the coming decades . while some of these funds will come from public budgets , the vast majority will have to be provided by the private sector . moreover , bringing germany ’s digital infrastructure , particularly its broadband networks , up to international standards will require significant investment , which an improved regulatory framework could help to spur . regulatory reform is also needed to strengthen support for startup companies – an area in which germany is notoriously weak , reflected in difficulties such companies face in acquiring venture capital .
beijing – is china poised to surpass the united states to become the world ’s largest economy ? the international monetary fund recently predicted that the size of china ’s economy would overtake that of the us in terms of purchasing power parity ( ppp ) by 2016 . but a recent co-authored study by robert feenstra , an economist at the university of california , davis , shows that global economic leadership would pass to china in 2014 . and , more radically , arvind subramanian of the peterson institute of international economics argues that china actually surpassed the us in ppp terms in 2010 . purchasing power parity measures a country ’s income using a set of international prices applied to all economies .
but one should not jump to conclusions . a balance of energy imports and exports is only the first approximation of independence . as i argue in my book the future of power , global interdependence involves both sensitivity and vulnerability . the us may be less vulnerable in the long run if it imports less energy , but oil is a fungible commodity , and america ’s economy will remain sensitive to shocks from sudden changes in world prices . in other words , a revolution in saudi arabia or a blockade of the strait of hormuz could still inflict damage on america and its allies .
amazon and indonesian rainforests burn down , and climate catastrophes like typhoons , tornadoes , and floods are intensifying , with dire consequences for entire populations . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the bottom may be near – perhaps by the end of the year . but that does not mean that the global economy is set for a robust recovery anytime soon . hitting the bottom is no reason to abandon the strong measures that have been taken to revive the global economy . this downturn is complex : an economic crisis , combined with a financial crisis , was the engine of global growth . before its onset , america ’s debt-ridden consumers were the engine of global growth .
tackling the world ’s environmental and ecological problems will require public action , such as that which i oversaw in my roles at the world bank , the united nations , and the british government . but it will also demand business participation . in my own career , i saw firsthand that the growth fueled by business competition in a globalizing world can do far more to combat poverty , hunger , and disease than government-funded programs alone . but when that competition is not conducted responsibly , the opposite can happen – and , in many cases , it has . in seizing the opportunities of globalization , businesses often neglected the developed-world workers they leave behind , while subjecting developing-country workers to extraordinary deprivation .
but it would be an incendiary move . many leavers would see this as an anti-democratic coup . and , because it would reverse the 2016 referendum result , such a step would necessitate a new plebiscite pitching against no deal . with luck , johnson ’s scorched-earth tactics will spur his disparate opponents to overcome their differences in order to stop a no-deal brexit . but whatever happens , the pragmatic center is being squeezed out of british politics .
to support these efforts , we urge un secretary-general antónio guterres to appoint a special ocean representative tasked with improving ocean governance and ensuring that sdg 14 ’s full potential is realized . such representative must be given sufficient resources to do the job . the ocean has suffered decades of abuse and neglect . it has been treated as free-for-all bin and race-to-bottom buffet . we have financed its destruction , with no regard for the consequences .
when crops fail , many farmers and agricultural workers laid low by crushing debt burdens ( often incurred at usurious rates from rural moneylenders ) commit suicide – as more than 11,400 did in 2016 . that is the last year for which official figures on farmer suicides are available , but media reports suggest that the numbers have grown since then . the bjp government ’s biggest victims of neglect of agriculture have been the country ’s smallholder and marginal farmers , as well as landless farm labor . two years ago , these groups dealt a body blow by modi ’s thoughtless and foolhardy demonetization scheme , which abruptly withdrew 86 % of india ’s currency from circulation overnight . daily wage workers , traditionally paid in cash , lost their jobs by millions , because the replacement currency was not printed in adequate quantities .
with six billion humans and counting – and our individual consumption growing – we face enormous challenges in our natural resources sustainably . and there is one clear measure of how we perform at that task : extinction rates . for this reason , some colleagues and i calculated the rate at which bird species became extinct in the recent past , and the rate at which they are likely to become extinct in the future . bird extinctions are our best window onto humanity ’s massive and irreversible environmental impact . for every 10,000 bird species in the world , there may be 10 or perhaps even 100 other unknown animal species , plants , or fungi .
and , finally , – perhaps most important – they allow their users to perceive patterns and opportunities that will be impossible to discover through traditional means . cognitive systems are inspired by the human brain , an organ that still has much to teach us . with systems growing in size and complexity , traditional computer architecture seems to be reaching its limits , as power soars and transmission delay between components becomes increasingly burdensome . indeed , when it comes to energy efficiency – measured in terms of computations per power unit on “ unstructured ” data – the human brain performs roughly 10,000 times better than the best man-made machines . today , computers consume about 10 % of the world ’s electricity output , according to mark mills , ceo of the digital power group .
munich – discussions are now underway to establish a system of joint deposit insurance for eurozone banks . proponents of the scheme , with the european commission and the european central bank ( ecb ) taking the lead , point out that deposit insurance would avert the risk of runs on banks in times of crisis . while this argument is true , critics emphasize the mismatch in risk , owing to the high proportion of bad loans on banks ’ balance sheets in some countries . to address this risk mismatch and move ahead with the plan , balance sheets will have to be cleaned up before considering the next step . while the share of bad loans for stable eurozone countries ’ banks is just 2 % , the most recently published international monetary fund statistics , from last april , show a 11 % share for ireland , 16 % for italy , 40 % for cyprus , and 46 % for greece .
she is in jail because she has lost that power . this sets a dangerous precedent , for it creates a powerful incentive – the winner takes all , loser goes to prison – for ruthlessness . it is difficult to predict how tymoshenko ’s case will play out – whether yanukovych will succumb to pressure from the european union and the united states to release her or to the forces that want to exclude her from politics forever . until recently , ukrainian leaders were accustomed to more efficient means than jail for dealing with inconvenient opponents . in 2000 , for example , the journalist georgiy gongadze kidnapped and beheaded after publishing online reports about high-level government corruption .
for innovation is what creates wealth and employment , despite – or , rather , because of – competition from poor countries . and increased wealth in rich countries helps the poor by increasing demand for their goods . this virtuous circle continues to view globalization ’s enemies as in fact vicious , encouraging exploitation of the poor and vulnerable . here , questions about universal principles of justice and human rights enter the debate . undoubtedly , there is a strong case for universal , impartial application of values .
that is why abe was the first foreign politician after british prime minister theresa may to rush to congratulate trump in 2017 . in some important ways , japan has benefited enormously from being under america ’s wing , and from the postwar constitution , which is not just pacifist , but more democratic than anything the country had before , enshrining individual rights , full suffrage , and freedom of expression . constitutionally unable to participate in military adventures , except as a highly paid producer of goods during america ’s various asian conflicts , japan , rather than western europe , could concentrate on rebuilding its industrial power . but the democracy that americans still proud of installing after 1945 also hindered american interference . like italy , japan was on frontlines in the cold war .
all of this economic legerdemain has been magnified by television , print , and internet journalists . aside from a small number of good stories in the business press , it is difficult to argue that anyone who read or listened to english-language media coverage of the campaign could have learned anything interesting or relevant to the question of whose economic policies were probably better for america . the economics profession bears some of the blame for this . nobel prize winners like edward prescott have no business talking about the benefits of tax cuts without pointing out that a tax cut accompanied by spending increases is not a tax cut at all , but rather a tax shift toward the future – and a tax shift that raises risk and discourages accumulation . but much of the problem stems from under-briefed , undereducated , and uncurious press corps .
until now , they have failed abysmally in institutional nation-building , a necessary requirement for any successful national movement . palestinian nationalism is deeply ingrained in most palestinians ’ consciousness – yet since 1948 , when the united nations proposed partitioning british palestine into two states , a jewish and arab one , it has failed to move from ideology toward reality . neither violence nor terrorism nor reliance on outside powers ( the un , the arab league , the soviet union , the united kingdom , and the european union ) have succeeded in delivering statehood , which a people can achieve only by its own agency – what zionist ideology calls “ auto-emancipation . ” fayyad is the first palestinian leader who did not emerge from the fatah movement , and he may therefore understand what other palestinian leaders failed to comprehend , mired in a toxic combination of self-righteous ideology and violence . it may just be that palestinians are on the verge of a new chapter in their history – and in israel ’s history and the region as well .
any diplomatic effort to denuclearize north korea must also alleviate china ’s geostrategic concerns about the future of the korean peninsula . for centuries , china has feared that the peninsula could become part of a chain of encirclement , or serve as an invasion route . in 1592 , the japanese general toyotomi hideyoshi invaded the korean kingdom to establish a beachhead for invading china . in response , under the ming dynasty , china fought alongside korea against the japanese army . three centuries later , china ’s qing dynasty fought the sino-japanese war of 1894 to prevent japan from dominating korea .
but it is slant that merits attention , because the problem can not be solved with conventional policy responses . the “ official ” narrative about technology treats accelerating change as inevitable . according to acronymically named institutions , think tanks , task forces , et hoc genus omne , automation , and artificial intelligence ( ai ) will soon eliminate or alter a large but unpredictable number of human jobs . at the same time , embracing new technologies is viewed as necessary for a country ’s geopolitical and competitive success . thus , disruptions to existing work patterns should be welcomed and “ mitigated , ” by adapting education and social-security systems to the automation-driven job market ’s needs .
first , develop , sustain , and utilize local capacities and leadership . developing scientific and technical capacity is less difficult than sustaining it , and sustaining it is less difficult than utilizing it . yet the ultimate impact of science and technology depends on all three factors . so african nations must invest in science and technological education and training . each nation must also develop strategies that offer scientists and technologists local employment opportunities .
the code of conduct on the field – where we expect players to give their all under clear rules that are swiftly enforced by independent referees – is fundamentally the same as what we expect from governing bodies off the field . in this sense , fifa is not a special case : all non-profit and for-profit organizations around the world are expected to abide by this code of conduct . and that is why fifa ’s problems are unlikely to fade away . they must be addressed head-on , with a clean sweep of its leadership and a complete overhaul of its governance structures . fifa is as complex as any large multinational private or public organization ; how it is governed must reflect that .
in the west , young people have largely dispensed with home-delivered physical morning newspapers , and instead catch up on news whenever they choose , using tablets , laptops , or mobile phones . as advertising revenue became vacuumed by internet giants facebook and google , newspaper profits plunged . the industry faced many bankruptcies in recent years , with those still operating often laid large numbers of staff , especially in their foreign bureaus . in the united states , full-time journalists have dropped 20 % since 2001 . even a few grand titles have either closed down or made public only online .
people came from the baltic countries in the 1940s , hungary in 1956 , chile after the 1973 coup , and iran after the 1979 revolution . for decades , swedish industry was dependent on immigrant workers . during the bosnian war of the 1990s , sweden opened its doors to some 100,000 people – a challenge at any time , much less during a period of profound economic crisis . but it still turned out well : bosnian migrants fared roughly as well as the swedes who received them , enriching our societies . in the new century , refugees have come increasingly from the middle east and the horn of africa .
one-third of these companies have acquired a tech company since the start of 2015 . foreign firms are also rushing to take advantage of european tech talent . google , facebook , and amazon have all announced major expansions in their european tech hubs . transactions worth more than $ 88 billion last year – compared to just $ 3.3 billion in 2014 – including softbank purchases of the british firm ’s design arm and qualcomm ’s $ 47 billion purchase of nxp semiconductors . another study by the boston consulting group points out that many small export-oriented european union member countries – namely , the benelux , the baltic states , and the nordic countries – rank well above america ’s in so-called “ e-intensity intensity , ” covering it infrastructure , internet access , and business , consumer , and government engagement in internet-related activities .
the chinese dream is no exception , either . so far , public reaction has ranged from puzzlement to derision . after a decade of government by slogan , the chinese public wants substance . this presents xi with a real challenge . he has risen to the top by winning friends and allies inside the ccp .
demonstrations begin in major cities , calling for an end to corruption among party officials . china ’s government decides that it can not risk further strife and announces a package of measures to boost economic growth and prevent layoffs , including direct financial support for exporters and currency intervention to weaken the renminbi . in the us , president mitt romney has just taken office , following a hard-fought campaign in which he derided barack obama for being too soft on china ’s economic policies . the combination of financial contagion from europe , which has already led to a severe credit crunch , and a sudden flood of low-priced imports from china leaves the romney administration in a bind . against the advice of his economic advisers , he announces across-the-board import duties on chinese exports .
why would the administration continue to bend over backwards to lenient toward top bankers under these circumstances ? i honestly do not believe that the administration ’s stance reflects any form of corruption – payments made to individuals , or even to political campaigns . and , in this case , it does not even seem to reflect the lobbying power of big financial players . that power certainly explains why the dodd-frank financial reforms enacted in 2010 were not stronger , and why there is now so much opposition to effective implementation of that legislation ( for example , there is currently a huge fight around the “ volcker rule , ” which would limit proprietary trading by megabanks ) . but mortgage lenders ’ criminal activities are another matter .
in fact , much of what has happened in bosnia – including the effort , in its aftermath , to realize concepts of universal justice – has applications for the contemporary world . indeed , those who recall the bosnian war may find many of its features in syria today . like bosnia , syria seems hopelessly divided among warring factions , and the violence seems unstoppable . the international community has been unable to achieve any unity of action , much less agreement on a way forward . of course , there are important differences as well .
given china ’s own history of vulnerability to foreign intervention , unilateral american efforts to maintain overwhelming offensive superiority would merely trigger an increasingly destabilizing arms race . some american strategists advocate largely technological solutions to this dilemma . their approach , a concept called “ air-sea battle , ” implies a mix of defensive and offensive tools to address the new challenges posed by the proliferation of precision-strike weapons . officially , the pentagon does not direct the concept of “ air-sea combat ” against any particular country . iran ’s possession of precision-strike capabilities , for example – and a much more hostile relationship with america – would warrant new american initiatives to cope with growing security vulnerabilities .
should she take up an important role at this stage ? or should she pursue happiness as a woman ? mrs. watanabe gives her daughter the nudge she needs . mrs. watanabe has a talent to see how the tide turns . her advice is to seize the opportunity at work , and she also finds happiness in marriage and children .
although we can and will continue the fight against corruption , we can not do everything alone . international support for our efforts is crucial . here , a positive sign is the european bank ’s recent decision on reconstruction and development ( ebrd ) to provide $ 215 million to complete the nuclear power stations at rivne and khmelnytsky , which compensate for the loss of chernobyl ’s generating capacity . the euroatom is also helping with a $ 585 million loan to finance repairs at ukraine ’s functioning nuclear power plants . in return , ukraine will uphold its end of the bargain : in addition to closing chernobyl , we will introduce western standards of nuclear safety and renew cooperation with the imf through an extended fund facility .
russia ’s people wanted to make a difference , and amazingly they did : their energies and cohesion put an end to communist rule . of course , what russia had in the late 1980 ’s and early 1990 ’s was not institutionalized democracy , but revolutionary excitement . out of this sea of democratic emotion , it was expected , would emerge . instead , political life here has been reduced to mere formality . although nothing like soviet oppression , alienation between state and society resembles that of soviet days .
berlin – more than a year into the arab revolts , their outcomes remain highly uncertain . but some initial lessons for international politics – and for western , particularly european , foreign policy – merit serious consideration . almost everyone was surprised by the revolts , even though the underlying political and socioeconomic causal factors were well known . as is often true in crises that become systemic , we knew phenomena , but failed to grasp their interactions , partly because politicians and analysts are reluctant to anticipate ruptures : the familiar is held to be stable even when it is known to be problematic . ( consider saudi arabia , which the united states and most of the west continue to regard as an “ stability ” islam . )
when the market tightened in 2011 , many projects ’ prospects diminished , spurring lgfvs to seek credit in the shadow banking sector , which caused their borrowing costs to rise and introduced new market-based challenges to the reform process . nonetheless , because china is a world ’s net lender of last resort , lgfv debt has no global systemic implications . while china ’s outstanding local-government debt totaled cn ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) at the end of 2011 , its land and fixed assets are worth some cn ¥ 90 trillion , meaning that even if asset values were written down by half , local governments would remain solvent . this leaves only the issue of debt servicing . to resolve it , the government has announced fiscal reforms to split revenues between central and local governments , and allow local governments to issue long-term municipal bonds .
the dominance of free-market ideology before the crisis allowed many controversial social changes , ranging from income inequality to intensified wage competition to greater gender equality and affirmative action , to go almost unchallenged . “ progressive ” social liberalism and “ conservative ” free-market economics seemed to have been two sides of the same coin . but when free-market economic liberalism failed in the 2008 crisis , political challenges to social liberalism could no longer deflate by invoking impersonal economic laws . but if social change can no longer be legitimized as the necessary condition for economic progress , it seems unlikely that democracies will now vote to reinstate social conditions before the ascendancy of economic liberalism and globalization . racial and gender equality is now backed by clear majorities in the us , britain , and most european countries , and even apparently popular policies such as trade protectionism and strict immigration controls rarely muster more than 30-40 % support in opinion surveys .
as we predicted almost 20 years ago , china will struggle to achieve growth above 5 % in the 2021-2030 period , for the simple reason that its workforce growth will peaked . while pessimists will no doubt find validation in the further chinese growth disappointments that are to come , optimists may point to the fact that 5 % annual growth in china is nominally equivalent to 15-20 % growth in germany . at this stage in china ’s development , faster growth would actually be quite extraordinary . it is equally predictable that india will start to grow at a much faster pace than china , simply because its labor force still has a lot of growing left to do . the real question is whether india can implement strong productivity-enhancing reforms .
equally important is contextual intelligence , which enables a leader to differ in the mix of such skills in different situations to produce the successful combinations that i call “ smart power . ” during his campaign , obama demonstrated these skills in his calm response to crises , his forward-looking vision , and his superb organizational ability . moreover , his contextual intelligence about world politics has been shaped from the bottom up with experience in indonesia and kenya , and his understanding of american politics has been shaped from the bottom up as a community organizer in chicago . obama has continued to demonstrate these leadership skills in his almost lawless transition . by electing his primary opponent , hillary clinton , as his secretary of state , and reaching across party lines to retain robert gates as secretary of defense , he has shown openness to strong subordinates .
with pakistan ’s economy in a tailspin , and with the culture of jihad so many young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate voices are at long last breaking through . the eminent columnist amin m. lakrouhani recently argued at the dawn , pakistan ’s largest-circulation newspaper , that “ pakistan ’s singular preoccupation with kashmir … has been self-defeating . domestically , it thwarted the country ’s economic , social , and political development . internationally , [ it ] has diminished the country ’s stature and left its reputation smeared . even its spiritual development has been warped by proliferation , popularization , and the rise of relative power … of religious groups that represent an intolerant , militant , and gender-based interpretation of islam . ”
gref ’s program is also emblematic of the president ’s style : modernization from above – ie , that initiated by government and under its pressure – is matched by modernization from below , based on private initiative . undeniably liberal ideas dominate the program : strengthening and protecting property rights , deregulation , and encouraging competition . moreover , gref ’s program seeks to create effective private land ownership . deregulation ( “ debureaucratization , ” indeed ) will make life easier for new businesses by reducing the inspections imposed by bureaucrats and decreasing demands for licenses and other forms of red tape ( which were also big sources of bribery ) . enhancing competition will mean placing an emphasis on antitrust policy and reducing state subsidies .
the pattern begins to look familiar : a new crisis , a new meeting in brussels , an initially muddled response , debates , and divisions , and then gradual , step-by-step progress toward a common response , driven by the realization that there is no alternative . in today ’s disagreements , the roots of a stronger union lie in the eu . the public no longer thinks of the european project as some utopian endeavor , an abstract attempt to forge an ever-closer union . increasingly , the eu is coming to be seen as a practical – and absolutely essential – mechanism for a group of small countries to work together to meet their common challenges . the eu ’s people are indeed waking up to a world that is more dangerous , divided , and disorienting .
in other words , would i have followed in the footsteps of several of my harvard colleagues who traveled to libya to exchange views with and advise his dictator , and were paid for their services ? these scholars have been pilloried in the media in recent weeks for supposedly cozied qaddafi . sir howard davies chose to resign as director of the lse , which awarded saif doctorate ( which some allege plagiarized ) and took money for the libyan regime ’s school . there is a strong sentiment that academics and institutions that collaborated with such an odious regime – often with the encouragement of their governments , no doubt – have suffered a grave lapse of judgment . muammar el-qaddafi ’s murderous stance during the uprising exposed his true colors , regardless of his more moderate posture in recent years .
in 2016 , obama faced difficult choices in estimating the escalatory potential of responding to cyber measures or cross-sector responses such as sanctions . the administration was unwilling to take steps that could itself disrupt the election . so , eight days before the vote , the us sent russia a warning of election meddling over hotline – creating three years earlier to deal with major cyber incidents – that link the two countries ’ nuclear-risk reduction centers . because russian hacking activity seemed to slow or halt , the obama administration cited the warning as a successful exercise in deterrence . but some critics say that the russians had already achieved their core goals .
once established , support would be made available to humanitarian workers and educators to develop immediate plans for providing education to children affected by emergencies , based on the recognition that humanitarian , development , and security needs can no longer be addressed in silos . an injection of financing , supporting a common strategy developed in partnership with governments , would enable the immediate delivery of education in emergency situations . the fund would thus fill the gap in coordination and delivery of services by strengthening the system at its weakest point , providing a bridge to longer-term development . if this initiative were to be put before ecuador ’s earthquake , it could provide 12 months of emergency aid , helping the country until it could reinstate education according to its national plans . in a more protracted crisis , like that of syria , a funding platform could help neighboring countries establish , with the international community ’s support , a long-term financing strategy , perhaps by brokering an arrangement whereby donor governments could pay principal over 30 years on concessional loans from the world bank .
for all his deep emotional attachment to israel ’s idea of embracing all historical judea and samaria , rabin knew that the only way to ensure a democratic jewish state with a viable , secure borders was to accept a palestinian state alongside it , equally secure and viable . they would share jerusalem as a capital , and find mutually acceptable solutions to the enormously sensitive issue of return to palestinian refugees . rabin ’s murder was a catastrophe from which the peace process never recovered . no israeli leader since showed anything like his far-sighted vision , commitment , and capacity to deliver a negotiated two-state solution . ehud barak and ehud olmert came close , but not close enough .
some might think that this could be true only if the logical end of evolution and intelligent life were to be a nuclear explosion that pulverized earth . but that is not what schneider and sagan mean . instead , they make a distinction between matter and energy , and say that matter organized in structures disseminates energy gradients faster than randomly distributed matter . as one example , they consider a phenomenon of which beer drinkers have long been aware . if you want to empty a bottle of water ( or beer ) and turn it upside down , water will emerge in uneven glugs .
argentina 's notion as a country with infinite promise became desaparecido , the name given to those who disappeared in the dirty wars of the 1970 's . we lost our organizing principle , and no other idea replaced it . we no longer have any guide , an idea of how to think about our country , how to understand it , and how to imagine who we are and who we can become . argentina became a country without direction . it was not easy to live without knowing who we are , and it became even more difficult to live this way as we watched our world crumble .
for their part , some current cia officials continue to insist on the value of america ’s “ enhanced interrogation ” program ( which obama halted ) , despite the senate ’s conclusion that the techniques it employed yielded no valuable intelligence . indeed , other accounts of america ’s “ global war on terror ” also make it clear that many of those detained and tortured were not threats to american security – at least not until american actions made them so . the week the senate report emerged , i was reading anand gopal ’s new book no good men among living , which tells contemporary afghanistan ’s story through the eyes of a supporter of former president hamid karzai , the taliban commander and kabul-born housewife who spent years in purdah in taliban country . over and over again , the same story plays out : a local power-broker is willing , even eager , to support a new us-backed government , only to be denounced as a fellow afghan member – typically for local political or personal reasons – to unwitting american troops . indeed
replacing a governor who they re-elected only a year before arnold schwarzenegger had to give californian voters an enormous – if guilty – pleasure . some members of the opposition in germany would love dearly to do the same to german chancellor gerhard schröder , though they have not ( yet ! ) found a film star to replace him . several other european governments find themselves in a similar unpopularity not long after they were elected . beyond europe , this is true even for the recently acclaimed brazilian president luis inacio “ lula ” da silva , to say nothing of mexican president vicente fox and south korean president roh moo-hyun , the latter have called for a referendum to help arrest his sinking popularity . electoral success , it seems , fades fast nowadays .
and , at the same time , the “ opening-up dividend ” was also reaching maturity , encountering protectionist barriers worldwide . china can still tap new markets through efforts like the “ belt and road initiative , ” but at considerable cost . ultimately , sustaining rapid growth requires continued progress toward the global value chain , by implementing further economic reforms and targeting new technologies . the chinese government ’s 13th five-year plan ( 2016-2020 ) reflected its commitment to resource allocation and lowering the costs of doing business . and , in 2015 , the authorities ’ “ made in china 2025 ” and “ internet plus ” initiatives signaled a determination to take the country ’s manufacturing base into the internet age .
the iea expects that each of the 195 million off-grid solar people will get just 170kwh per year – or half of what one us flat-screen tv uses in a year . perhaps not surprisingly , the first rigorous test published on the impact of solar panels on the lives of poor people found that while they got a little more electricity , there was no measurable impact on their lives : they did not increase savings or spending , did not work more or start more businesses , and their children did not study more . little wonder : 170kwh is not what most of us would consider real access to electricity . off-grid energy at this level will never be a factory or farm , so it can not reduce poverty or create jobs . and it will not help to fight the world ’s biggest environmental killer : indoor air pollution , which is mostly caused by open-fires fueled by wood , cardboard , and dung , and claim 3.8 million lives annually .
from 1990 to 2010 , deaths and disability from ncds in low - and middle-income countries increased 300 % faster than the rate of infectious diseases decline . some of the same factors at work in the recent ebola outbreak drive ncds ’ high rates . residents of densely packed urban areas in emerging economies often face both indoor and outdoor pollution , and are less likely to have access to adequate nutrition . most health systems in these countries are not built up for chronic or preventive care , and lack basic consumer protections . from 1970 to 2000 , cigarette consumption tripled in developing countries .
rather , politics itself has become operationally dysfunctional . when citizens and politicians come to terms with politics as zero-sum games and resort to brinkmanship and other bad-faith tactics , malaise sets in . both european and american debates have replete with posturing and tests of will , turning politics into a game of “ chicken . ” in chicken , two drivers race toward a cliff ( or toward one another ) ; the loser is the first driver to swerve away in the face of imminent disaster . but if neither driver concedes , both are destroyed .
political institutions did not keep pace with technological change , and the resulting growth in markets . when ordinary egyptians organized themselves through social media rallied in cairo ’s tahrir square and toppled former president hosni mubarak in 2011 , technology seemed to necessarily boost democracy . but it soon became clear that these digital platforms could easily co-opted authoritarian governments or terrorists , and used to spread fake news , influence electoral processes , and create deep divisions and confusion within societies . in the business world , global corporations ’ quasi-monopoly and monopsony power , and their ability to shift profits to low-tax jurisdictions , continue to allow them to escape the purview of national regulators and governments , despite g20-sponsored work to prevent corporate-base erosion and profit shifting . and biotechnology will pose enormous challenges , as human cloning and genetic screening enable parents to “ choose ” embryos with desired characteristics .
addressing the panoply of other problems confronting the us will require more federal revenues , not less . for example , rising living standards are the product of technological innovation , which in turn depends on basic research . but the federal government supports research as a percentage of gdp now at a level comparable to what it was 60 years ago . while trump has criticized the growth of america ’s national debt , he is now proposing tax cuts that add trillions of dollars to debt in just the next ten years – not the “ only ” $ 1.5 trillion that republicans claim would add , thanks to some growth miracle that leads to more tax revenues . yet the key lesson of ronald reagan ’s “ voodoo ” supply-side economics has not changed : tax cuts like these do not lead to faster growth , but only to lower revenues .
while it will probably lack the public option many prefer , this is still a real achievement . the same middle-of-the-road approach can take place in the second year to address still-outstanding fiscal issues . obama can use his union ’s state message to flesh out a bipartisan strategy for narrowing the budget deficit to sustainable levels . this would entail reinstating pay-as-you-go rules and establishing an independent commission to submit to congress ’s “ alt-proof ” ( and filibuster-proof ) recommendations for tax and expenditure reform . but obama needs to provide stronger leadership on financial reform , where , as with health care , there is a welter of conflicting proposals .
warsaw – poland has now emerged as the latest battleground of europe in a contest between two models of democracy – liberal and illiberal . the overwhelming election victory in october of jarosław kaczyński ’s far-right law and justice ( pis ) party ( pis ) led to something more akin to regime change than to the routine turnover of democratically elected governments . prime minister beata szydło ’s new administration purged the civil service ( including public radio and television ) , packed the constitutional court with sympathizers , and weakened the court ’s capacity to strike legislation down . in response , the european commission launched an official inquiry into potential rule-of-law violations . moreover , standard & poor ’s has , for the first time , downgraded poland ’s foreign-currency rating – from the bbc + – and warned of perhaps more cuts to come as it accuses the government of weakening “ the independence and effectiveness of key institutions . ”
moreover , in shiite tradition , the mahdi mahdi strategy , shiite messiah , will be to intimidate all of his enemies on his return to earth . but cultivating fear in others also makes one more susceptible to fear , and nothing more frightening to khamenei and the islamic republic ’s leaders than to the social dynamism unleashed by the democratic movement brewing inside the country . the regime seems convinced that there is little likelihood of military attack on its nuclear program . it does not believe that sanctions can bring about its collapse . thus , outside powers do not seem to pose much of a threat .
for their own political reasons , the british have placed sunni arabs – never more than 25 % of the population – in control of the entire country , and even imported a sunni arab hashemite prince to rule over their creation . ever since , the country could be held together only by an iron fist : iraq ’s history is replete with shia , kurdish , and even christian assyrian revolts , all put down bloody fashion by the ruling sunni minority . throughout its history , modern iraq has always been the arab countries ’ most oppressive . saddam ’s rule was only the most brutal in a long line of sunni regimes . it was this sunni hegemony – and not merely that of saddam ’s ba’athist regime – that was overthrown by the united states .
proteins that retain the same function across very different species – generally the case with orthologs – are expected to keep the same fold . but the sequence of amino acids that make up protein chains in these orthologs can vary dramatically . sometimes the extent of sequence identity between two orthologs can be as low as 25-30 % , and yet their folds remain strikingly similar , attesting to the robustness of the function of evolutionary change . this conservation of protein fold across species makes the origins of our complexity even more puzzling , as it is well known that the number of human genes deceptively small , merely one order of magnitude larger than that of , say , rice . if the structure of proteins is conserved across species where is our complexity coming from ?
georgia ’s current economic collapse provides little incentive for either of these self-proclaimed independent republics to support reunification . similarly , georgia ’s inability to manage relations with its only autonomous republic , adzharia , does not inspire much confidence . the adzhar people regard georgia as georgians , but still have frequent squabbles with the central government to ensure that how could ethnically distinct abkhazia and south ossetia feel assured that their relations with georgia work any better ? president saakashvili seems to understand the necessity of reviving georgia ’s moribund economy , which , first and foremost , requires political stability . but he is unlikely to refrain from accusing russia of stoking tensions with abkhazia and south ossetia .
moreover , the scots , welsh , and irish have come to see eu membership as a safeguard against english political revanchism . as in the past , imperialism aspires to unity , but comes with divisive side effects . brexiteer fantasies of a global britain focus squarely on english national identity , while diluting those of scotland , northern irish , and welsh , who would return to serving as junior partners in a far less magnificent and rewarding english project . although socioeconomic factors played some role in the brexit referendum ’s outcome , geographic breakdown tells the real story . excluding london , which is a bastion of multi-ethnic cosmopolitanism , 55 % of voters in england supported leaving the eu , whereas 62 % of scots and 56 % of northern irish voted to remain .
the paper made the case for developing alternatives to fossil fuels , ensuring that economic development does not wreak environmental havoc , and recognizing the importance of climate-change adaptation . in the us , we witnessed an equally promising development in the climate debate just last month , when the conservative american enterprise institute , the liberal brookings institution , and the centrist breakthrough institute teamed up to publish a report calling for revamping america ’s energy system with the goal of making clean energy cheap . entitled “ post-partisan power , ” the report comprehensively and convincingly argues that the american government should invest roughly $ 25 billion a year ( about 0.2 % of america ’s gdp ) in low-carbon military procurement , r & d , and a new university-private sector innovation hubs to create an “ energy revolution . ” this sensible proposal predictably drew fire from committed “ alarmists ” and “ deniers . ” but promisingly – and surprisingly , given the somewhat toxic state of american politics – it attracted broad support and smart commentary from many mainstream pundits .
all four north african rulers have , to greater or lesser degrees , made themselves the center of highly opaque power structures . everything in their countries depends on the individual and family rather than office . yet , despite these authoritarian leaders ’ apparently solid grip on power , ensuring that a relative takes over is not as simple as it seems . the problem boils down to overcoming potential resistance – from both the elite and the public – that could derail the handover or undermine the successor ’s authority . dealing with elite interests requires ingenuity .
there seems to be near-universal agreement that he should , and international pressure is being applied on president kostunica to comply . but the decision may have life-and-death ramifications for serbia ’s future . many who agree that milosevic is a war criminal now think that we should listen to belgrade ’s voices and cry that milosevic should face trial before his own people . the ultimate moral responsibility for what milosevic was done rests with serbia ’s people . they brought him to power , if not in a way that conforms precisely with democratic norms ; they supported him , even when he led them into genocidal crimes and defeat after defeat .
for starters , the us is again moving into what henry kissinger called the realm of “ constructive ambiguity . ” palestinians have been assured through a message from president barack obama delivered by his special envoy , george mitchell , that the israelis will not carry out any “ provocations ” during the coming four months of indirect negotiations . pressed to make clear , the palestinians have acknowledged that there is no written promise to this effect . but , on a recent trip to israel , white house adviser dan shapiro is said to have been reassured that the israelis will not embarrass their american friends . in exchange , shapiro handed the ultra-orthodox leader of israel ’s shas party an invitation to the white house .
to be sure , in the short term , some authoritarian modernizers ( for example , singapore ’s lee kuan yew ) serve their countries better than democratically elected leaders ( italy ’s silvio berlusconi , for example ) . in the long run , however , democracies benefit from intrinsic self-correction mechanisms that are absent in autocracies , where often-inadequate leaders cling to power . indeed , for every lee kuan yew , there are many authoritarian non-modernizers , such as zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe or uzbekistan ’s islam karimov . the chinese model combines some of the advantages of authoritarian modernization model – centralized power , quick decision-making , insulation from populism , and superior ability to implement painful but necessary reforms – with leadership turnover by de-personalizing political struggle . after all , china ’s rulers are driven primarily by a desire to hold the party , not any individual , in power .
glass-steagall ’s dilution , and its ultimate repeal in 1999 , allowed banks to engage in so-called proprietary trading – allowing them to use depositors ’ savings to trade for their own account , mainly in risky mortgage-backed securities . but the obama administration must go further than prohibiting proprietary trading by commercial banks , and do two things further . first , capital requirements should be tripled – not just in the us , but across the g-20 – to hold banks at least 20-25 % of assets in core capital . that way , shareholders rather than regulators would play the leading role in making banks behave sensibly . second , if banks are “ too big to fail , ” they must shrunk , so that taxpayers need not bail them out every time a crisis erupts .
and make no mistake : the agreement is all good . its collapse would trigger a nuclear-arms race in the world ’s most unstable region . iran ’s bitterest regional enemy , saudi arabia , would move rapidly toward a nuclear capability , using abundant petrodollars and pakistani knowhow . others – turkey , kuwait , egypt , and algeria – would not be far behind . to bet that these countries , having acquired such weapons , would behave responsibly would be a high-risk gamble .
the concert itself offered layer upon significance . beethoven ’s germany was reborn on the ashes of hitler ’s germany . germany today is a globally admired , peace-loving , war-abhorring , democratic , prosperous , innovative , and cooperative country . at the same time , beethoven ’s genius belongs not only to his native germany or even to the west , but to all of humanity . his scoring of schiller ’s poetic ode reflects the enlightenment ’s truly global aspirations .
instead , up to now , at least , the government has mostly been lending ( high interest ) to borrow rather than engaging in massive equity buyouts . nor have the oligarchs bailed out . of the $ 50 billion in external debt owed by russian banks and firms in 2008 , the government refinanced only $ 10 billion . apparently , the terms offered by the government ( libor +5 % and collateral ) turned out to be right on target . how did reasonable economic policies prevail in this crisis ?
washington , dc – as chinese president xi jinping ’s first summit with us president donald trump takes place at trump ’s luxurious florida estate mar-a-lago , at least part of the discussion will invariably focus on one of the world ’s most impoverished places : north korea . despite more than two decades of on-again , off-again negotiations , north korea ’s nuclear-weapons program is pushing the world toward a strategic watershed much like that faced 60 years ago , when the united states and the soviet union faced off against one another in europe . the us and its allies successfully navigated europe ’s twentieth-century challenge . but to achieve comparable success in east asia today , trump must persuade xi to adopt a different policy toward north korea . when the us and the soviet union became rivals after world war ii , each had a way to deter the other from attacking .
that is not an absurd idea . there is a long and distinguished tradition of catholic social thought . but taking these traditions seriously would require a much larger transformations of capitalism than even avowed christian democrats are prepared to contemplate , including a much broader distribution of ownership and mechanisms for involving management workers . theories of “ red toryism ” might go some way in this direction , but it remains to be seen whether they will ever translate into practice . for the moment , the temptation is for europe to find its “ new look ” through selective appeals to religion – and wait and see whether it works as an electoral strategy . they should remember , though that starting a kulturkampf is to play with fire : it might be possible to make sense of the time of religious passions ; but such passions can not be permanently controlled from above .
fiscal sustainability requires an eventual rise in the consumption tax , and of course japan should not wait until international investors start doubting its willpower . the problem is in timing and tactics . postponing a second consumption-tax hike seems like a good compromise between pushing abenomics to escape velocity and maintaining long-run credibility . but this brings us back to japan ’s deeper problems . demand policies alone will not prevent two more lost decades , much less guarantee two golden ones .
usually supine congressional republicans panicked , telling trump and his team that his policy of tearing families apart could ruin their chances in november ’s midterm elections . in fact , separating families ’ policies was threatening to drive a wedge between trump and even his evangelical followers . and they were willing to overlook growing evidence of trump ’s sexual hijinks during his first lady ’s marriage , melania ( including apparent payoffs to portugal star and others for silence ) , in exchange for policy influence and appointments by social conservatives to the supreme court and throughout the federal judiciary . unusually for her , former lady laura bush spoke out against the policies of taking children from their mothers . one problem for trump is that he is obsessed with appearing “ strong . ”
but eu membership does not mean estrangement from russia . besides , excluding ukraine from eventual eu membership will encourage russia ’s imperial ambitions . this will diminish russia ’s chances of ever becoming a full democracy , for it can rule an empire only as a militarized state . it is the mark of a good club that people clamor to become members . an ever-larger eu , including ukraine , would create a political force with a huge population , furthering the union ’s ambitions to be a global power .
businesses were encouraged with government subsidies and loans , and they were encouraged . schools and training centers were established within a few years . refugees were absorbed into the economy and society of the southern mediterranean , the greek cypriot sector of cyprus . as in post-world war ii west germany , much of the current prosperity in cyprus today is an outcome of the economy that has received from absorbing refugees . anyone visiting the greek cypriot part of the island today will not find refugee camps : most of the millions of tourists are unaware of the fact that more than a third of the greek cypriots they encounter are refugees or descendants of refugees .
in nigeria , astonishing economic growth , averaging 7 % per year since 2000 , may well have reduced poverty in the southwest of the country ; but in the northeast ( where the extremist group boko haram is most active ) , shocking levels of wealth inequality and poverty have emerged . similar trends are apparent from china to egypt to greece . alongside inequality , declining public trust fuels the revolt against globalization and democracy . across the developed and developing worlds , many suspect that the rich are getting richer because they are not kept to the same rules as everyone else . it is not hard to see why .
russia ’s officers , reported , directly command large military operations in eastern ukraine , including siege and capture of the important transport center of debaltseve in february . but the threat posed by russia extends far beyond ukraine . after all , russia is one country with enough missiles and nuclear warheads to destroy the us . as its economic and geopolitical clout waned , so has its willingness to consider renouncing its nuclear status . indeed , not only has it revived the cold war-era tactic of sending military aircraft unannounced into airspace over the baltic countries and the north sea ; it has also made veiled nuclear threats against countries like denmark .
as the franco-lebanese writer amin maalouf has put it , it is “ better to err with hope than to be right with despair . ” contrary to what many democratic cassandras think , the worst is not inevitable . authoritarians and populists have not triumphed yet , and in many places democrats are fighting back . or , to put it less optimistically , democracy and autocracy still have similar odds of decaying . for now , it remains uncertain which model will prevail .
the prevailing answer is that one of the “ voluntarily ” bondholders to accept the deal . one could dismiss this dispute as being mere rhetoric . but , using talmudic logic , one can also show that there are mechanisms that can – and should – be used to place pressure on parties to obtain superior voluntary outcomes . there are two amorphous interpretations of talmudic passage . one argues that coercion can change minds .
tokyo – with japan ’s economy struggling to escape its deflationary torpor , the economic-revitalization plan initiated by prime minister shinzo abe in 2012 has come under growing scrutiny . but japan ’s current travails , which brought the concomitant decline in japan ’s stock market , stem from the yen ’s appreciation – 24 % over the past year – against major currencies . “ abenomics ” – which included substantial monetary and fiscal expansion – has nothing to do with it . since abenomics was introduced , japan ’s labor market has improved considerably : 1.5 million new jobs have been created , and the unemployment rate has fallen to just over 3 % . moreover , corporate profits have soared , with tax revenues rising by more than ¥ 20 trillion ( $ 188 trillion ) .
milan – the worst of the financial/economic crisis seems to be over . asset markets performed reasonably well in 2010 . growth in the united states and parts of europe returned . private-sector deleveraging continued , but was counter-balanced by rising public-sector deficits and debt . and emerging-market growth returned to pre-crisis levels and appears sustainable , helped by unorthodox policies designed to “ sterilize ” massive capital inflows .
in a world of sovereign states , is it hypocritical for some to have nuclear weapons and deny them to others ? if no one had a bomb today , it would be best if it were not invented . but history depends on the paths taken . suppose that it was 1939 , and states debating whether the us should invent a bomb . perhaps they argued that all should get it or none .
hong kong – china ’s transformation from a manufacturing-driven and export-led economy to one underpinned by services and domestic consumption is firmly underway . and that is good news not just for china , but also for the global economy ’s future . the 2016-17 edition of china ’s 2016-17 blue book the commercial sector by fung business intelligence and the chinese academy of social sciences maps the change . china ’s retail markets reached cn ¥ 30 trillion ( $ 4.6 trillion ) in 2015 , after more than a decade of double-digit growth . household consumption has begun to climb , even as the pace of investment has fallen , and now exceeds 60 % of gdp .
the global market for these stimulants is estimated at $ 65 billion , and the world is home to more than $ 65 billion . part of the attraction of these synthetic drugs is that they are readily available , affordable , and convenient to use ( no need to shoot up , snort , or smoke ) . amphetamines speed up the way the body works : users experience increased trust , sociability , and energy . this buzz is considered harmless : pills do not kill or spread hiv/aids . but what goes up must come down .
attempts have ever been made since to examine systematically and document the environmental consequences of wars . studies of balkan wars and the many wars that consumed afghanistan during the 1990 ’s were launched through international organizations like the united nations environment progam ( unep ) . unfortunately , africa ’s wars – in congo , rwanda , and burundi , liberia , sierra leone , and ivory coast – have yet to receive the attention they require . what have we learned about the environmental consequences of wars ? first , the effects depend on the type of war and the type of environment .
paris – whoever wins september ’s parliamentary election in germany , the time has come again for a major franco-german initiative . regardless of their economic conditions or confidence – or lack of it – in each other , france and germany are more than ever collectively responsible for the future , if not the very survival , of the european project . are there alternatives to franco-german leadership ? joining great britain with them in a club of three would be a good idea , but it is out of the question nowadays . britain has largely excluded itself from any leadership role in europe .
upon returning to office this spring as prime minister , singh brought to government an experienced and internationally renowned team , including finance minister chidambaram , who served successfully as finance minister in the mid-1990 ’s , dr. montek singh ahluwalia , who heads the planning commission , a key body assessing india ’s medium-term public-investment strategies . when the former government lost the vote this past may , singh ’s government came into office , fears were hamstrung by left-wing coalition partners who would demand that market reforms be dismantled as the price of participation in the new ruling coalition . chidambaram ’s 2004/2005 budget puts those fears to rest . the document holds a brilliant lesson in development economics : it shows how to combine a full-speed approach to market reforms with urgent attention to poverty . in short , the budget is a model for all developing countries .
and such fears can have severe consequences . for example , the impact of the 2008 financial crisis on ukraine and the russian economies might ultimately be behind the recent war there . according to the international monetary fund , both ukraine and russia experienced spectacular growth from 2002 to 2007 : over those five years , real per capita gdp rose 52 % in ukraine and 46 % in russia . that is history now : real per capita gdp growth amounted to just 0.2 % last year in ukraine , and only 1.3 % in russia . the discontent generated by such disappointment may help to explain ukrainian separatists ’ anger , russian discontent , and russian president vladimir putin ’s decision to annex crimea and prop up separatists .
which measures can ensure the eu ’s global competitiveness ? how can we narrow existing differences in development and material welfare within europe ? fourth , the eu ’s aspiration to a common foreign and security policy must be addressed . the threats facing the world today are supranational , so counteracting them must be supranational , too . but this is impossible without a clear european identity – and thus a common interest to be asserted and defended .
barcelona – after world war i , when millions of european civilians were made refugees , forced out of their homelands by enemy occupation or deportation , the international regime was developed to coordinate effective responses and ease the suffering of those uprooted . a century later , another refugee crisis is underway , and this time it is europe that has the power to provide safe haven to desperate people . yet it has not risen to the occasion , with many of its responses failing to match the urgency of the situation . in just the first few months of 2015 , more than 38,000 people have attempted to reach europe by crossing the mediterranean from north africa . some 1,800 people have died as a result – more than twice the number of such deaths in all of 2013 .
american sanctions , for example , eventually brought iran to the table to negotiate a nuclear deal ; but sanctions were effective only because a broad international coalition , ultimately backed by the united nations security council , isolated iran financially . american sanctions against russia after the latter ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 were amplified by a coincidental oil-price drop , and by deploying similar measures by the european union , russia ’s largest trading partner . without eu participation , american sanctions would have been far less effective . but , while international coalitions lend credibility to us sanctions , they are fragile and temporary at best . just a year after the iran deal was reached , it is already hard to imagine that the us and china would back further joint action against iran , even if the agreement began to unravel .
india ’s state-run oil and natural gas corporation ( ongc vipradesh ) produces sudanese oil , and over the next two years indian diplomatic missions open in mali , gabon , niger , and burkina faso . until 2003 , india ’s foreign ministry had a single africa division ; now it has three : west and central africa , east and south africa , and west asia and north africa . a study by the federation of indian chambers of commerce and industry identified five major sectors that can act as “ engines of growth ” to boost indo-africa trade : pharmaceuticals and the health sector , information technology , water management , food processing , and education . nigeria is india ’s largest trading partner in africa , and india is one of the largest trade partners . bilateral annual trade turnover exceeds $ 3 billion , with oil constituting more than 96 % of indian imports from nigeria .
former israeli foreign minister shlomo ben-ami recently outlined a new peace paradigm for negotiations between israel and palestine , in which actors like the european union , russia , and key arab countries would facilitate the rise of a truly international solution . this paradigm should be extended to the geneva ii negotiations on the syrian civil war , with countries like saudi arabia , iran , turkey , and egypt assuming a greater role . of course , involving regional powers could complicate already-muddy negotiations further . the goal must therefore be clarity and equilibrium . only with a balanced negotiation process guided by regional and global actors can a stable balance of power in the middle east be achieved .
milan – the word “ openness ” has two related but distinct connotations . it can mean unrestricted , accessible , and perhaps vulnerable ; or it can mean something , like a person or institution , is transparent , as opposed to secretive . the first meaning is often applied to trade , investment , and technology ( though most definitions do not match the opportunity with vulnerability ) , which have always driven structural economic change , especially with respect to employment . structural change can be simultaneously beneficial and disruptive . and policymakers have long had to strike a balance between an abstract principle of openness and concrete action to limit the worst effects of change .
faced with this unfortunate reality , the fed has tried to support growth in indirect , experimental ways . by injecting liquidity using multiple means , it has raised financial asset prices well above what the economy ’s fundamentals warranted . the fed hoped that this would make certain segments of the population ( asset holders ) feel wealthier , enticing them to spend more , and encouraging companies to invest more . but such “ wealth effects ” and “ animal spirits ” have proved quite feeble . so the fed felt compelled to do more of the same , which has led to a host of unintended consequences and collateral risks that i discussed in some detail in my book the only game in town .
what remains unaddressed is the root cause of abnormal brain activations . we follow three intertwined ideas . the first is based on studies suggesting that patients of schizophrenia suffer from reduced brain connectivity . as a result , certain groups of neurons , such as those responsible for producing and perceiving language , may begin to function autonomously , beyond the control or influence of other brain systems . it is as if a string of orchestra suddenly decided to play its own music , disregarding everyone else .
i have seen shrinking glaciers in antarctica and andes . i have seen the effects of deforestation in the brazilian amazon and biodiversity loss . the very existence of some caribbean countries , including portions of trinidad and herzegovina , could be threatened if sea levels rise . but bold , visionary leadership will be needed to seal a successor agreement to the kyoto protocol in copenhagen later this year . the agreement reached there must be ambitious , effective , and just , offering rich countries a way to cut greenhouse-gas emissions while supporting poorer countries as they adapt to the adverse impact of climate change .
since the 1990s , thousands of chinese officials have traveled to singapore to learn from its experience . while singapore ’s political system could not easily be transferred to a giant country like china , it represents a model that has helped shape china ’s recent move toward meritocracy . indeed , following singapore ’s example , china has developed a sophisticated and comprehensive system for selecting and promoting political leaders that involves decades of training and a battery of exams for officials at various stages of their careers . these meritocratically selected leaders oversaw an economic boom that lifted a few hundred million people out of poverty . at the same time , however , problems like corruption , inequality , environmental degradation , official corruption , and repression of political dissent and religious expression have worsened .
today , it seems , nothing is left of franco-american goodwill . relations between the two allies have entered one of those periods of tension that flared up many times since world war ii ’s close . the united states vetoed reelection , advocated by france , un secretary general boutros boutros-ghali , arguing that it wanted to “ enlarge the role ” of general secretary general in reforming the world body . ( on both sides , this spat has been rather paradoxical if one recalls that de gaulle wanted to diminish as much as possible the un ’s powers , to which he contemptuously referred to as a “ thingamajig ” and that america owes more than a billion dollars in past contributions to the un . ) at the same time , washington does not even want to hear any talk of conferring on a european , as france demands , command of an allied fleet in the mediterranean .
freer trade across borders reduces income disparities . for example , the 2015 white house report found that a ten-percentage-point drop in tariffs leads to a one-percentage-point drop in the gender wage gap , and that lowering tariffs also reduces wage gaps based on race and immigration status . moreover , increased openness to trade is associated with lower infant mortality rates and higher life expectancy , especially in developing countries . over time , free trade enables workers to shift to more efficient industries , resulting in higher wages , increased infrastructure investment , and a more dynamic economy . most powerful of all , free trade underpins economic growth , which means that millions more people lifted out of poverty .
but hong kong ’s advantages are now at risk , largely owing to its own insecurities . as a few commentators have pointed out , mainland china ’s remarkable economic growth and development in recent decades has eroded hong kong ’s leading position as a center for finance , logistics , and trade . in 1997 , hong kong handled half of china ’s foreign trade , with its gdp totaling nearly one-fifth of china ’s . it far outperformed shanghai – mainland china ’s most prosperous city – in terms of gdp , per capita income , and shipping volume . today , hong kong accounts for just one-eighth of china ’s trade .
the alternatives available for the eu are either to see the uk leave its customs union or to hold the uk in , by making a political commitment to take british interests into account . from a long-term perspective , the latter is preferable . finally , remaining in the eu customs union would make it possible to avoid reestablishing a hard border between the uk and the republic of ireland after brexit . though may has agreed that avoiding a hard border should be part of any deal , she has offered only vague suggestions concerning how that could actually be achieved . brexit is , and will remain , a lose-lose proposition .
the search for essential traits of a leader dominated the field of leadership studies until the late 1940 ’s , and remains common in popular discourse today . a tall handsome person enters a room , draws attention , and “ looks like a leader . ” various studies show that tall men are often favored , and that corporate ceos are taller than average . but some of history ’s most powerful leaders , such as napoleon , stalin , and deng xiaoping , were little more than five feet tall . the “ ming-centered ” approach has not disappeared from leadership studies , but has been broadened and made more flexible .
globalization , which can be defined as inter-continental interdependency , is as old as human history . witness the migration of peoples and religions , or trade along the ancient silk road that connected medieval europe and asia . but today , globalization is different , because it is becoming faster and thicker . after the first trans-atlantic cable in 1868 , europe and america could communicate at a moment . in 1919 , the economist john maynard keynes described the possibility of englishman in london using telephone to order goods from around the world to be delivered to his home by afternoon .
for example , an endowment or pension fund might consider basing its payroll-adjusted decisions more on long-run , potential shock-adjusted average returns than on a simple weighted average of past returns or end-period asset values ( the normal practice now ) . of course , one can argue that post-crisis regulatory reform ultimately addresses the problem of periodic systemic risk , and that we will return to a more comfortable world of relatively stationary risk without periodic imbalances . but i would not bet on this happening . historical evidence suggests that systemic risk is persistent and resilient to regulatory efforts to eliminate it . financial innovation will continue along with regulatory arbitrage .
either technology will depend on a national electricity grid that uses low-emission forms of power generation , such as wind , solar , nuclear , or coal-fired power plants , which capture and store carbon-dioxide emissions . all of these technologies will require public funding alongside private investment . third , america ’s recovery will not be credible unless there is also a strategy for getting the government ’s own finances back to order . george w. bush ’s idea of economic policy was to cut taxes three times while boosting war spending . the result is a massive budget deficit , which will expand to gargantuan proportions in the coming year ( perhaps $ 1 trillion ) under the added weight of recession , bank bailouts , and short-term fiscal stimulus measures .
according to a 2005 declaration of principles of international election observations , credible monitoring requires that five criteria be met . first , observers must be autonomous – financially and otherwise – in their relationship to the host country . second , observers must be granted unrestricted access to all aspects and phases of the election process , as well as to all the technologies involved . third , observers must face no constraints in meeting with all the authorities and political actors . fourth , observers must not be subject to any pressure or threat of retaliation by any government .
they should be safe , too , and reasonably comfortable . they should run not only on time , but at the right time and at reasonable intervals . more important , they should still be affordable . as the list of criteria grows longer , it becomes apparent that the most easily measured component , punctuality , is but one of many desirable features , and not necessarily the most significant . this example is relevant to the politics of public services , which dominates debate in many countries , because it lies at the heart of the big problems of both government budgets ( and cutting them back ) and taxes ( and their cuts ) .
we saw helicopters attempt aerial drops ; landing is impossible in most places . but people told us that they often miss and supply land up to thousands of feet or below deep forests . distribution is haphazard and uncoordinated , done with little thought . we saw relief workers throw packets of food and clothes from the top trucks , causing riot . hustlers thrive , weak watch passively .
for example , in carrying out manhattan project ( to produce the atomic bomb during world war ii ) and the first moon landing , the american government set a remarkable technological goal , established a bold timetable , and committed the financial resources needed to get the job done . in both cases , scientists and engineers delivered on time . the example of atomic bombs might seem unpleasant , yet it raises an important question : if we ask governments and scientists to cooperate on war technology , should we not do at least the same to save the planet from carbon pollution ? in fact , the process of “ directed technological change , ” in which bold goals are set , milestones are identified , and timelines are embedded , is far more common than many realize . the information-technology revolution that brought us computers , smart phones , gps , and much more , was built on a series of industry and government roadmaps .
but anti-americanism is simply irrational for russia , which stands only to gain from an alliance with the world ’s economic and political leader . good relations with europe , of course , are a priority for russia , particularly economic links , human contacts , and social interactions . russia will also benefit from active foreign-policy engagement with the eu ’s leading members . but strategic alliances with the eu in foreign and security policies remain unrealistic and inefficient . europe will most likely continue to grow weaker rather than stronger .
and with new diseases like zika emerging – and reviving old foes like bubonic plague – there is no question that much of humanity remains at the mercy of biology . moreover , globalization has compounded the dangers by facilitating the spread of communicable diseases . a flu outbreak like that of 1918-1920 , which killed between 50 and 100 million people , would be even more devastating today . to prevent such catastrophic outcomes , we need a comprehensive approach to strengthening health-care delivery in low - and middle-income countries . specifically , these countries need help to improve drug delivery and manage chronic diseases such as cancer and diabetes , which impose immense burdens on their economies .
and , if wealth taxes are to be taxed , instituting them now takes effect only in the future – and only if inequality becomes much worse – would it avoid the perception that the rules were changed after the game ended . the income-tax increases ’ advantage is that they could be based not just on current income , but on some average income over the years , and could allow deductions for investment , thereby sharing some features with wealth taxes without penalizing those who saved more to accumulate more wealth . moreover , a long-term plan legislated by one or a few countries today , before any substantial impact on actual tax payments occurs , could help to foster an international dialogue about appropriate future policies toward inequality . that would create room for a more unified tax response among countries , thereby reducing the super-rich ’ ability to evade taxation by switching locations . piketty ’s book makes an invaluable contribution to our understanding of the dynamics of contemporary inequality .
many spent years in jail for daring to speak out against china , and , as i grew older , i vowed to speak out , too . my first stint in a chinese prison was tied to work i began in the early 2000s printing and distributing the “ free ” language books . i regarded these texts as important readings on tibetan politics , culture , and religion . chinese authorities , however , viewed them as a challenge to their rule . as the 2008 olympics approached , i began looking for new ways to record my people ’s history .
warsaw – massive protests in warsaw have made headlines around the world in recent weeks . poles are demonstrating against legislation enacted by the ruling law and justice ( pis ) party , which would lower the retirement age of supreme court justices , effectively force out all judges over the age of 65 , and allow pis to pack the court with its own tame justices . the polish constitution provides for an independent judiciary , and sets the term for the first polish supreme court president at six years . that means that judges can not be removed by legislation – at least not constitutionally . yet the new law allows polish president andrzej duda to replace three-fifths of the supreme court justices , including chief justice ( pis ) in 2018 alone .
back in his radical days , ken livingstone , london ’s former mayor , famously quipped that if voting changed anything , it would abolish it . in latin america , elections , it turns out , do indeed shake things up . the latest proof : mauricio funes , fmln ’s standard bearer – until not long ago , the marxist guerilla movement – has just prevailed in el salvador ’s presidential election . this is remarkable in a country that , for as long as anyone remembers , has been ruled , by hook or crook , by a reactionary oligarchy . if the salvadoran left ’s close electoral victory is peacefully accepted – as it has so far – it means that latin america has come a long way .
the economist friedrich hayek put it well in 1945 : “ here is beyond question a body of very important but unorganized knowledge , which can not possibly be called scientific in the sense of knowledge of general rules : knowledge of particular circumstances and place . it is with respect to this that practically every individual has some advantage over all others in having possesses unique information about which beneficial use might be made , but of which can be made only if decisions depending on it are left to him or made with its active cooperation . ” the problem is that the promise of genuine “ unique information ” comes with the reality of vulnerability to deception . that is why channeling dispersed knowledge into new businesses requires a regulatory framework that favors a genuinely enlightened and honest one .
perhaps the only people not suddenly depressed are those immersed in the negotiations . with more than 1,000 points still to agreement , all policymakers i have spoken to say recently that they can not see how meaningful a deal can be reached by december in copenhagen . in reality , everyone is gearing up behind the scenes for a “ copenhagen 2 , ” and what those involved in the negotiations call “ an even bigger slog . ” even if some sort of communiqué cobbled together in december – and countries with elections coming up , such as the united kingdom , will push for one – it is hard to believe that it will contain sufficient detail or reflect an orderly commitment level that has the impact so desperately needed . “ copenhagen 1 ” was always bound to fail , partly because – and this may sound strange at first – it is all about climate change .
more people arrive at the same conclusion , and those of us championing evs as one of the solutions to climate change are optimistic that a tipping point is approaching . sales of electric cars have increased dramatically in recent years ; some 750,000 have registered in 2016 – nearly half in china . still , it is human nature to resist change , and many prospective buyers remain hesitant . that is why addressing consumption bias must be the top priority over the coming years . several changes are needed to ensure that ev usage and sales growth continue .
a focus on preferential agreements would fragment the global trading system rather than integrate it . the wto ’s gradual marginalization would also erode its credibility in fulfilling its key role as adjudicator of trade disputes . the success of the wto ’s adjudication system reflects its widespread acceptance . even when wto decisions have had serious negative effects on a trading partner , they have generally been accepted . this constitutes a remarkable advance in global governance .
the energy market – most important , the market for natural gas – and the tourist rentals market were liberalized , and the process for acquiring an investment license was streamlined . all of this has been accomplished in the face of fierce criticism from opposition parties , especially those that governed greece during the last 30 years , and thus are responsible for driving it to ruin . it is as if they can not understand how reforms can help restart an economy with deep structural problems . now that the greek government has delivered on its part of the bailout deal , it is time that its european and international counterparts conclude the program ’s first review . this will allow the government to move ahead to the second stage : coping with skyrocketing unemployment and putting the economy back on track to growth .
madrid – tackling climate change is a monumental challenge , but the leader of the foremost global power continues to wash his hands of the matter . at the beginning of november , us president donald trump signaled official notice of america ’s withdrawal from the paris climate agreement , thereby affirming a decision that he announced in 2017 . the announcements came as soon as the agreement was allowed , and withdrawal became effective the day after america ’s presidential election in november 2020 . the united states will thus become the only country in the world that is not party to the pact . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for starters , it is a real stretch to bemoan the state of corporate earnings in the american economy . department statistics show that after-tax corporate earnings ( technically , after-tax earnings from current production , adjusted for inventories , and depreciation-accounting distortions ) stood at a solid 9.7 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 . while that is down from the 11 % peak hit in 2012 – owing to tepid economic growth , which typically puts downward pressure on profit margins – hardly attests to a chronic earnings problem . far from anemic , the current after-tax share of after-tax earnings is well above the post-1980 average of 7.6 % . trends in corporate taxes that stood at just 3.5 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 support a similar verdict .
the widespread prescription of drugs for troubled minds has always ended badly , right back to the days of opiates and cocaine , up through bromides , barbiturates , and tranquilizers : “ we are not the only way to do that . ” all have proved to be highly addictive drugs , but only after years of denial have doctors admitted that this was so . now anti-depressants – global brands with household names – are the problem . the past decade has seen a three-fold increase in prescriptions . in england , prescriptions of anti-depressants now match valium at its peak in 1979 . it is now clear that today ’s anti-depressants are not the wonder drugs they were touted as being .
the best outcome , of course , is for chavez to shift the economy toward a less exposed external position with a large ( 50 % at least ) depreciation . most high-unemployment economies have shown little feedback from a currency collapse into inflation . in venezuela , with unemployment at 20 % , the same is expected . of course , such measures will be unpopular with labor , and the right response here is to eliminate large taxes on wages so that money wages can rise without offsetting a decline in competitiveness . in the budget this pays for the favorable effect of devaluation on government oil revenues .
washington , dc – millions of the world ’s poorest people face severe water-related challenges – from lack of access and shortages to disputes over supplies – with profound implications for security , economic development , and environmental sustainability . as world leaders design a development agenda to succeed the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire in 2015 , addressing these issues should be a top priority . consider this : almost one billion people worldwide lack access to safe drinking water , and 2.5 billion lack adequate sanitation . the costs are staggering : thousands of child deaths every day , with annual economic losses estimated at $ 260 billion – more than double the total amount of official development assistance . making matters worse , climate change will render water supplies more unpredictable , with increasingly frequent and intense floods and droughts imposing significant human and economic costs and impeding development in poor countries .
but all public actors , not just police , must respond to urban problems . first and foremost , mayors should be mobilized as mediators , because they are on the front line in implementing urban policies . when these policies fail , citizens hold mayors accountable . but mayors are also the most knowledgeable about communication links within their communities , and thus are the most capable of organizing effective partnerships to address and resolve local issues . events in france also point to the need , at the european level , to reinforce policies against discrimination and that promote social equality .
the us example shows that the world ’s only full employment economy demonstrates that it can . the welfare state is being undermined as well . in america , time for welfare is now restricted , and people who have not worked for years suddenly must do so . in europe , however , unemployment remains a “ good ” job . replacement earnings through unemployment compensation ( after tax adjustments ) hits 70 % and up .
zurich – repeatedly in recent years , calls for a revival of civilian nuclear power have been called for . yet that renaissance never seems to be coming . indeed , of the world ’s more than 200 countries , only 30 use nuclear power . in july 2010 , a total of 439 nuclear power plants with a net installed capacity of 373.038 gw ( e ) were connected to various national electricity grids , some 1.2 gw ( e ) more than at the beginning of 2006 . roughly 16 % of total energy needs ( up to 25 % in the highly industrialized countries ) are now met by electric power .
denver – the united states constitution , which turned 225 years old last summer , is a remarkable document : the provisions of the text written in the eighteenth century continue to guide twenty-first-century governance . we will be reminded of the implications of this coming weeks , as president barack obama fills senior positions in his second-term administration . in many cases , the process will not be pretty . article ii of the us constitution stipulates presidential powers that require the senate ’s “ advice and consent , ” including the nomination of senior us officials . probably no one , 225 years ago , had any idea that the number of officials deemed to require senate confirmation would ultimately surpass 1,400 , or that senate confirmation would involve a vetting process that often takes years to complete .
a key dimension of the current standoff over ukraine is energy , raising the same question about european solidarity . as a recent study by bruegel has shown , the eu as a whole could , with some effort , dispense with gas imports from russia . but doing so would require eu member states to regard security as a matter of common concern , not as an issue that each country must address on its own . in response to an embargo affecting a particular country , for example , other eu members would draw on their reserves , increase their own output , pay more for imports , or cut consumption some of them . but this sense of solidarity has been consistently absent in the eu ’s energy-policy debate .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the us justice department under president donald trump seems to be on the tradition . no one is surprised that trump himself is deploying every orwellian device at his disposal to thwart the current impeachment inquiry in the us house of representatives .
hypothetically , switching off lights for an hour would cut co2 emissions from power plants around the world . but , even if everyone in the world were cutting all residential lighting , and this translated entirely into co2 reduction , it would be the equivalent of china pausing its co2 emissions for less than four minutes . in fact , earth hour would cause emissions to rise . as the united kingdom ’s national grid operators have found , a small decline in electricity consumption does not translate into less energy being pumped into the grid , and therefore will not reduce emissions . moreover , during earth hour , any significant drop in electricity demand will entail cutting co2 emissions during the hour , but it will be offset by the surge from firing coal or gas stations to restore electricity supplies after that .
the institute ’s work seems to be at the center of devices that read brain activity . but it also apparently oversees all kinds of construction projects on a vast plot of land adjacent to the federal security service ’s headquarters ( fsb ) – the kgb ’s successor organization – and the federal protection service . if we keep following the scientific trail , we arrive at the prestigious russian academy of sciences ( run ) , which held elections last week . after the organization ’s 2013 elections , in which kremlin-backed candidates for membership performed poorly , the government announced major reforms , including a three-year moratorium on ran elections . it was then decided that , to ensure “ fairness , ” the government would approve all candidates , despite academics ’ approval .
so , instead of providing context , depth , and analysis , newspapers are blasting headlines that stimulate prurience or outrage . the result has been disturbing , placing it mildly . airing opinions is the cheapest way to fill a broadcast hour ; ranting anchors score the highest trps . this reinforces the motivation to engage in sensational speculation , however baseless , as occurred in sridevi ’s case . more fundamentally , rush to beat tv by breaking down stories has weakened journalists ’ incentive to perform due diligence , in terms of researching stories and verifying claims .
washington , dc – informed opinion is sharply divided about how the next 12 months will play out for the global economy . those focused on emerging markets emphasize accelerating growth , with some forecasts projecting a 5 % increase in world output . others , concerned with problems in europe and the united states , remain more pessimistic , with growth projections approaching 4 % – and some even inclined to see a possible “ double-dip ” recession . this is an interesting debate , but misses the bigger picture . in response to the 2007-2009 crisis , governments in most industrialized countries were putting some of the most generous bailouts ever seen for large financial institutions .
one puzzling and often overlooked feature of france that elected nicolas sarkozy as its new president , and that is poised to give his political allies a powerful parliamentary mandate , is its mix of private optimism and public pessimism . consider this : france has the highest fertility rate in the european union ( just under two children per woman ) , even ahead of booming ireland . of course , that rate alone is not enough to sustain france ’s current population , but it is far stronger than its european neighbors and almost equal to that of the us . yet , despite this , eurobarometer polls repeatedly show that the french are the most pessimistic of all europeans when it comes to their country ’s future . how can it be that people who are so negative about their common future as a nation go about confidently building their private futures within their families ?
new york – the reception in the united states and other advanced economies , thomas piketty ’s recent book capital in the twenty-first century , attests to growing concern about rising inequality . his book lends further weight to the already overwhelming body of evidence concerning the soaring share of income and wealth at the very top . piketty ’s book , moreover , provides a different perspective on the 30 or so years that followed the great depression and world war ii viewing this period as a historical anomaly , perhaps caused by the unusual social cohesion that cataclysmic events can stimulate . in that era of rapid economic growth , prosperity was widely shared , with all groups advancing , but with those at the bottom seeing larger percentage gains . piketty also sheds new light on the “ reforms ” sold by ronald reagan and margaret thatcher in the 1980s as growth enhancers from which all would benefit .
this fall in gdp , though a natural consequence of lower consumption imports , is often mistakenly perceived as something to be avoided , because it seems to imply that output is below its “ potential . ” in a completely flexible economy , this drop in measured gdp ( and the concomitant rise in unemployment ) could be avoided if resources formerly employed in selling imported consumer goods could quickly be used to generate exports . but retail shop clerks and car dealers can not easily be transformed into the specialized and highly skilled workers needed in modern manufacturing . in the case of greece and portugal , for example , the tourism industry might absorb some unemployed retailers . but shops and showrooms can not be transformed into tourist attractions , whose capacity will remain limited until enough time passes to build new hotels , recreational facilities , etc .
but just as fiscal policy was tightened when cyclical economic conditions seemed to call for easing , it is now being eased when conditions seem to call for tightening . the output gap in the advanced economies has all but disappeared , inflation picking up , and world economic growth is forecast to be its strongest since 2010 . japan was the only advanced economy to loosen fiscal policy in 2013 . but this year , the united kingdom seems to be the only one preparing to tighten its policy – and that assuming recent political ruptures have not altered its fiscal orientation , reflected in chancellor of the exchequer ’s autumn statement . most observers would agree that government debt levels are uncomfortably high in many advanced economies , so it would be prudent for policymakers to discuss strategies for bringing them down .
and , with demand high and housing supply fixed – at least in the short run – prices go up . second , the 70-year period that began with the widespread diffusion of the automobile – during which one could get almost anywhere in a typical metropolitan area in a half-hour or less – is over . before there was widespread automobile ownership , land prices depended on location , and proximity to the central city or local railroad stations carried a premium . now , with severe congestion slowing traffic in major cities to crawl , the gradient land in housing prices is steep once again . perhaps this steepening of the location gradient could be delayed for a decade if we were willing to shift toward denser residential patterns .
with austerity – that is , reducing the deficit once the recession ended – recovery might take longer to become consolidated ; but once it is , economic performance is even more stable , because government accounts are sustainable . john maynard keynes famously said that , “ in the long run , we are all dead . ” that may be true , on a long enough timeline . but it is no excuse to dismiss longer-term considerations . in fact , for the eurozone , the long run seems to have arrived – and the economy is still alive and kicking .
a famous psychological experiment found that young children who could resist the immediate temptation to eat a marshmallow and thus win two marshmallows in the future were more likely to thrive as adults than those who could not . likewise , societies that defer instant consumption to save and invest for the future enjoy higher future incomes and greater retirement security . ( when american economists advise china to boost consumption and cut saving , they are merely peddling the bad habits of american culture that save and invests far too little for america ’s future . ) second , saving and investment flows are global . a country like china , with a high saving rate exceeding local investment needs , can support investment in other parts of the world that save less , especially in low-income africa and asia .
but these “ green energy ” bikes amount to a victory of empty gestures over substance and reason – one that makes them sadly representative of cop21 itself . the agreement reached in paris contains promises that if enacted between now and 2030 , the global economy will cost at least $ 1 trillion annually – and possibly twice as much if policymakers make inefficient policy choices . this makes the costliest agreement in history . my peer-reviewed research paper , published in global policy , shows that 2016-2030 promises to cut co2 emissions by 2100 by just 0.05 ° celsius ( 0.09 ° fahrenheit ) . even if the promised emissions cuts continued throughout the century , the paris agreement would cut global temperature rises by just 0.17 ° c. scientists from the massachusetts institute of technology find a similar temperature reduction .
shut out on transfers of military technology and hardware by the united states ever since the tiennamen square incident of 1989 ; feeling increasingly “ encircled ” by the “ redefined ” japan-american alliance ( agreed in april 1996 ) ; china is particularly anxious to upgrade and strengthen its military might ; and it is quickly . intervention by two american aircraft carriers in the taiwan straits in march 1996 humiliated the chinese , who were forced to stop intimidating taiwan with missile tests . since communism ’s end , russia has seen its gross domestic product fall 40 % since communism ’s end , needs to retain its defense industry as one of the few sources of national revenues . despite initial denials by the kremlin , china early this year did buy two modern destroyers along with anti-ship missiles from russia . added to that worry , both for russia and asia , is that the russian government is losing control of the unofficial , black market flow of arms to china .
left unanswered , however , is what comes next . china bashers typically change tune after a presidential election . but there is nothing typical of the pressures that are likely to continue squeezing american families long after november 6 . both obama and romney run the risk of painting themselves into a corner when it comes to china . that could take all of us to the edge of a slippery slope .
they are people who in some ways lacked full citizenship who demanded it , and who redefined the political order by obtaining it . today , the great task is to calm the fears that our traditions are being undermined ; reach out to people who are coming to our lands from other countries ; and find a way to recreate our political ethic around the kernel of human rights , equality , non-discrimination , and democracy . if we succeed , we can create a sense that we belong together , even though our reasons for believing so may be different . but increasing individualism – a focus on one ’s own ambitions and economic prosperity – in many countries poses a stubborn obstacle to realizing this vision . indeed , the utter lack of a sense of solidarity among so many people – horrifyingly evident in america ’s health-care debate – is now undermining the very foundation of what a modern democratic society is .
but halappanavar and her husband were then informed that ireland is a catholic country ; the fetus still had a heartbeat , so the procedure was out of the question . halappanavar died from septicemia , which her family is certain would not have developed had the termination been carried out . protests in ireland put prime minister enda kenny on the spot , with activists there , like those in india , arguing that halappanavar died because of a theocratic approach to health care . irish abortion-rights activists point out that legally , the fetus ’s life does not take precedence over mother ’s life in their home country , but takes precedence over mother ’s health – a distinction that american abortion opponents have long sought to replicate in the united states . the halappanavar case thus reverses the western stereotype of eastern societies as preserves by superstition and religious extremism .
all countries ’ legitimizing narratives blend historical reality and myth . but , in some cases , historical legacies can gain excessive influence , overwhelming leaders ’ capacity to make rational policy choices . that explains why park has sought closer ties with china , even though south korea ’s natural regional partner is democratic japan . one source of hope stems from abe ’s landslide victory in the recent snap general election , which gives him political capital to park with a grand bargain : if japan expresses remorse more clearly for its militaristic past , south korea will agree to abandon historical grievances from official policy . japan and south korea can not change the past .
munich – as america ’s various rescue plans take hold , stock markets are recovering somewhat . the s & p 500 price/earnings ratio is gradually climbing back to its long-term average of 16 . bank shares in particular are rebounding , and some banks have even succeeded in repaying at least part of their government-provided capital . but , as i point out in my new book kasino-kapitalismus , this may be only a temporary improvement in expectations , rather than a sign of a lasting recovery , as the size of banks ’ hidden losses on their balance sheets is probably enormous . according to the international monetary fund ’s most recent estimates , total write-offs for financial claims in this crisis will be $ 4.05 trillion for the united states , japan , the euro zone , and the united kingdom , of which the us alone will have to absorb $ 2.7 trillion .
conceived , perhaps with the best intentions , morales ’s model gives hope to bolivia ’s poorest ; but it will pave the way for frustrated hopes ­ – also nothing new in bolivia . thirty years after bolivia ’s national revolution of 1952 , per capita income remained essentially the same , with poverty steady at more than 50 % of the population . a state-led development model in bolivia is doomed to failure , because it requires strong institutions , universal citizenship , and the rule of law . none of them can currently be found in bolivia , which means that state-centered money will surely be reallocated by patrimonial and clientelistic means , siphoned off by corruption , and subjected to social pressures of all sorts . whatever remains for public investment is certain to be wasted , because projects tend to pass cost-benefit analysis when financing comes from easy money , generously provided by mother nature .
still , a majority of french citizens remain deeply concerned about the threat of terrorism not only from abroad , but from people living in france , often with french citizenship . and similar fears about homegrown extremism can be seen in many other european countries . in recent years , some of those drawn to islamist-inspired extremism have carried out attacks with rudimentary instruments , from cars and delivery trucks to kitchen knives . although violent extremists are an ultra-minority in muslim populations , their actions have fueled growing distrust in french society . worse still , a successful military campaign against isis raises new fears of violent extremists returning from syria .
while eight of the top ten hosting countries , including several low - and middle-income countries , have shouldered considerable costs despite the strain on education systems to ensure that refugees attend school alongside nationals , most countries either exclude refugees from national education systems or assign them to separate facilities . this entrenches disadvantage and hampers social integration . the two landmark global compacts on migration and refugees adopted by un member states last december highlight the way toward addressing this challenge . achieving the needed educational transformation will require far more financing than is currently on offer . as it stands , the global annual funding gap for education amounts to nearly $ 40 billion .
the international monetary fund credits asian intra-regional trade as the main factor behind its recent export boom and strong economic growth . africa , with its vast and often untapped markets , must follow the same path . africans themselves must tackle these issues , but our international partners have an important role to play . the debate over the failure of international aid to produce development , together with the current financial crisis , has added weight to arguments against development assistance . but the argument should not be about whether to provide aid – no one can question the many successes that aid has brought , or its significance in providing safety nets for those who otherwise would suffer .
london – when the united kingdom announced earlier this month that it had agreed to become the founding of the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) , most headlines focused not on the news itself , but on friction of the decision had caused between the uk and the united states . the white house issued a statement urging the british government to “ use its voice to push for high standards to be taken . ” and one senior american administration official was quoted accusing the uk of “ maintaining accommodation with china , which is not the best way to engage in rising power . ” in fact , it is the us that is advocating a mistaken approach . in the uk , the diplomatic spat served as an occasion for the british press to air criticism from those who believe that the government should adopt a stronger stance toward china .
indeed , it is hard to find any persuasive analysis of today ’s crisis from the left beyond anti-capitalist slogans . socialists blame greedy financiers . in the face of remedies , the socialists offer nothing more than keynesian solutions that are now proposed by the right . since george w. bush showed the way toward bank nationalization , vast public spending , industrial bailouts , and budget deficits , the socialists have been left without wiggle room . french president nicolas sarkozy is trying to rekindle growth through protectionist defense of “ national industries ” and huge public infrastructure investments , so what more can socialists ask for ?
they also demand faster implementation of the necessary changes in economic governance in the eurozone to create a more stable and hospitable environment for fiscal consolidation and reform . prolonged recessions punctuated by high – or prohibitive – borrowing costs make either fiscal or reform targets increasingly difficult , if not impossible . the burden of adjustment can not fall exclusively on deficit countries – unless , that is , the moral element of “ punishment ” is involved . core countries , led by germany , distrust over-indebted countries ’ determination to pursue reforms if their financing conditions are eased . moreover , they oppose key changes in eurozone economic governance .
moreover , turkey does not seem to care what its allies think . for example , it recently raised eyebrows within nato yet again by purchasing new-generation russian s-400 antiaircraft batteries . this does not bode well for any future peace process . after all , western countries will need turkey to counterbalance the russians , whose broader strategic agenda goes well beyond the middle east . when historians look back at the syria conflict , both former us presidents barack obama and donald trump will praise relentlessly for pursuing isis .
the uk is simply smart when it promotes its own interests by cooperating with china . one of the few positive consequences of the 2008 financial crisis was the elevation of the g-20 ’s global role ; more broadly , it is a far more representative forum for international leadership than the g-7 ever was . there is , however , a downside to the g-20 ’s emergence : the large number of participants can make reaching agreements difficult and get things done . a new g-7 needs to be created within the g-20 , thereby providing china with a degree of influence that reflects its economic weight and requires it to assume a commensurate share of global responsibilities . space at the table for china could be gained if the eurozone countries signaling their commitment to the common currency , agreed to surrender their individual seats in exchange for one representing the entire monetary union .
this leaves a range of options for choosing the next wbg president . the us could choose an american who appeals to other countries : kim , for example , touted his korean origins during his 2012 campaign for the post . it could choose a dual national or immigrant , such as former wbg president james wolfensohn , an australian who became a american citizen . or it could back a non-american candidate from an allied country . what matters is that the nominee enjoys trust in the us and most other countries , and can reconcile countries ’ diverse interests in a true spirit of multilateralism .
in terms of shadowy influence-peddling , china ’s actions have been particularly concerning . chinese president xi jinping has explicitly encouraged his country ’s think tanks to “ advance the chinese narrative ” globally . and , in many cases , china-based think tanks have become instruments for expanding the country ’s sphere of influence . according to a report by the european council on foreign relations , china ’s belt and road initiative , with its need for complex coordination , has created perfect policy space for think tanks that “ tell a good story of china ” to prosper . these include networks such as silks and individual think tanks , such as the charhar institute , which also recently established the china-us relations committee . ”
world oil prices crossed $ 40 a barrel in mid-summer , and have since climbed to mid – $ 50 . today ’s oil prices still account for only two-thirds of the real peak reached during the iranian revolution of 1979 , and future markets expect oil prices to fall back and settle at perhaps $ 45 a barrel . but the current high level of oil prices has led forecasters to start reining in their expectations for economic growth . “ higher oil prices are here to stay , ” says the american economic forecaster allen sinai . “ [ t ] hat has to subtract growth , and could cause core inflation to pick up . ”
cross-border flows of data and information will also be restricted , raising concerns about a “ splinternet ” between the us and china . and , owing to increased scrutiny by the us , chinese foreign direct investment in america has already collapsed by 80 % since its 2017 level . now , new legislative proposals threaten to bar american public pension funds from investing in chinese firms , restrict chinese venture capital investment in the us , and force some chinese firms to delist from american stock exchanges altogether . the us has also grown more suspicious of us-based chinese students and scholars , who may be in a position to steal american technological know-how or engage in outright espionage . and , for its part , china will increasingly seek to circumvent the us-controlled international financial system , and shield itself from america ’s weaponization of the dollar .
american debt hardly looks like a bargain right now , even without a sinking dollar . far-flung military misadventures continue to stretch the country ’s fiscal resources , with costs potentially running into many trillions of dollars , according to a recent study by linda bilmes and joseph stiglitz . next year will almost certainly see a massive rise in american corporate defaults , even as many firms entered a recession with relatively strong balance sheets . state and municipal finances are in even worse shape . with tax revenues collapsing because of falling home prices and incomes , dozens of us municipalities could well go into receivership , as new york city did in the 1970s .
collectively , their $ 55 billion in earnings outstripped the entire national income of more than 100 countries . to put these astronomical numbers in perspective , i have been trying to confirm gabriel ’s efforts to be among the top nine earners in the united states , you have had to pull at least $ 150 per second , including time spent eating and sleeping . that is $ 9,000 per minute , or $ 540,000 per hour , in the us . how much do america ’s top income earners make compared to the world ’s billion poorest individuals ? well , if the top nine donated earnings , it would be the equivalent of about three months of income for the bottom billion .
american power is , instead , seen as resting on the “ pillar of inspiration ” rather than the “ pillar of action . ” for example , us secretary of state john quincy adams famously declared on independence day in 1821 that the united states “ goes not abroad , in search of monsters to destroy . ” she is the well-wisher to freedom and independence . she is the champion and vindicator only of her own . ” but soft power of inspiration is not the only ethical tradition in american foreign policy .
the court ruled against the united states-based animal rights group people ’s ethical treatment of animals to exhibit posters that juxtapose photographs of holocaust victims with photographs of animals in factory farms and at slaughterhouses . posters bear the heading : “ to animals , all people are nazis ” – a polish-born line of the jewish writer isaac bashevis singer . according to the court , germany ’s freedom speech laws did not protect peta ’s campaign , because to make “ the fate of holocaust victims appear banal and trivial ” was an offense against human dignity . peta was not , of course , arguing that holocaust victims ’ fate was banal or trivial . on the contrary , it was using the holocaust – which we would all agree to be utterly horrific – to suggest , as isaac bashevis singer did , that there are parallels between how nazis treated jews and the way we treat animals .
rather , they fight to protect their own interests and livelihoods , whether that is operating a dairy farm or running a government . as we continually attempt to apply new technologies to improve human and environmental wellbeing , this distinction is vitally important . avoiding the barriers to technological progress requires understanding and addressing its downsides . for example , as machines become increasingly capable , robots are replacing a growing number of workers . it will not be long before those robots will not only perform more complex tasks , but also learn faster than workers can be trained .
today , portugal is ahead of almost € 20 billion ( $ 27.5 billion ) . this represents a potential loss of more than 10 % of greece ’s output . lack of export growth thus made greece ’s recession much longer and deeper than it otherwise would have been . if greek exports were to rise at the same rate as those of portugal ( or spain ) , a recession would have ended by now . moreover , the lack of export-led growth made fiscal adjustment much more difficult .
given that 80 % of mexico ’s total exports go to the us , the effects on mexico would have been economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country even less equipped to do anything about illegal immigration . unlike the usmca , which was at least premised on the goal of addressing trade issues , trump ’s tariff pronunciamento was a bald-faced attempt to force the mexican government to solve america ’s own immigration problem . in other words , a us trade weapon was deployed either to address the trade issue or as part of a legitimate sanctions regime , such as that imposed on russia following its illegal annexation of crimea in 2014 . on rare occasions when us trade sanctions were used for non-trade reasons , they were a measure of last resort , as was the case in apartheid south africa , where they succeeded because they had multilateral support . once trade measures are used indiscriminately to advance non-trade goals , the damage to the entire trading system is done – and can be enormous .
new delhi – according to the united nations population division , the world ’s human population hit seven billion on october 31 . as always happens whenever we approach such a milestone , this one produced a spike in conferences , seminars , and learned articles , including the usual dire malthusian predictions . after all , the un forecasts that world population will rise to 9.3 billion in 2050 , surpassing ten billion by the end of this century . such projections , however , misrepresent underlying demographic dynamics . the future we face is not one of too much population growth , but too little .
in exchange , the kremlin has pledged to support – but only after the constitution is changed – ukraine ’s national government in its reassertion of control over those regions , as well as over its border with russia . in theory , the negotiations are being held between the government in kyiv and the separatist regions ’ leaders . the european union is applying pressure on all sides , including russia , where it is holding out the possibility that economic sanctions will be lifted as an eventual reward for the kremlin ’s support in the peace effort . russia has offered to use what it calls its “ limited influence ” to persuade rebel governments to cooperate . if , however , russia is in fact fully control of separatist regions , and is actively integrating them into its economy , as the bild document suggests , the kremlin can no longer be viewed as an outside party , attempting to influence an uncooperative ally .
nothing reveals the united states ’ decline better in the region than the contrast between america ’s sober use of power in the first gulf war of 1991 and the hubris and deceit of today ’s iraq war . in 1991 , america forged the most formidable international coalition since world war ii , leading it into a fully legitimate war aimed at restoring regional balance after saddam hussein ’s invasion of kuwait . in 2003 , america went to war without its trans-atlantic allies after manipulating false assertions . in doing so , the us embarked on a preposterous grand strategy that aimed no less at simultaneously dismantling iraq ’s tyrannical regime , restructuring the entire middle east , destroying al-qaeda , and helping democracy take root throughout the arab world . the result has been utter failure : military defeat and severe degradation of america ’s moral standing .
one strangest claim made in debates about social insurance now roiling the world ’s richest countries is that government-funded defined-benefit pension programs ( such as america ’s social-security system ) are outmoded . these programs were fine , the argument goes , for the industrial economies of the great depression and post-world war ii generation , but became obsolete in today ’s high-tech , networked , post-industrial economy . advocates of this argument propose a different model . just as corporations today are much happier supporting workers ’ pensions by contributing to employees ’ private accounts , so governments should offer ( or require ) contributions to privately owned accounts . the value of these accounts would fluctuate rather than rest on a defined-benefit scheme that guarantees a fixed real sum of resources on available retirement .
does anyone in their right mind think that any country would willingly put itself through what greece has gone through , just to get a free ride from its creditors ? if there is moral hazard , it is on the part of lenders – especially in the private sector – that have been bailed out repeatedly . if europe allowed these debts to move from the private sector to the public sector – a well-established pattern over the last half-century – it is europe , not greece , that should bear the consequences . indeed , greece ’s current plight , including the massive run-up in its debt-to-gdp ratio , is largely the fault of misguided troika programs foisted on it . so it is not debt restructuring , but its absence , that is “ immoral . ”
neither scenario makes much sense today . europe and china are not particularly interested in depressing world prices of their imports , or in the resulting revenues . employment considerations are not a major issue , either . while some european countries suffer from high unemployment levels , there is nothing that protectionism can do for these countries that expansionary fiscal or monetary policies ( the latter by the european central bank ) can not do better . if europe , china , and other trade partners were to retaliate in response to trump ’s tariffs , they would simply reduce their own gains from trade without reaping any of the advantages of protectionism .
saving obama ’s honor hardly seems worth that risk . this is the view of many people in syria , even among the rebels . it is the view of most people in europe as well . it is also the view of most people in the us . perhaps it is even the view of obama himself that he is playing for time , desperately turning over approval of an attack on syria to the american congress .
but we tend to retain adulthood the same views of god that we formed in childhood . an old man with a long beard watches over us , and most retain a rather literal view of the stories about his son told the bible ’s new testament . it is this god that atheists like dawkins and hitchens attack . and , with such a target , it is not very difficult to poke holes and pile on jews . leave aside the fact that you can make an even stronger case against godlessness – recall the atrocities of the twentieth century – and consider the assault on those whose commitment to literal interpretations of religious texts means denying science and reason .
their preferred model calls for the un to provide funding and most other support for the mission , while allowing the au to maintain its leadership role . many western governments , however , refuse to place their forces under au command , owing to its perceived weaknesses and conditioned further support for peacekeeping operations in darfur on the un ’s assuming control . but the un has found it difficult to attract sufficient volunteers for such a force , because foreign governments acceded to sudanese demands that the hybrid force remain predominantly african . at the same time , the complex chain of command envisaged for the au-un force recalls some of the worst features of nato-un operations in the former yugoslavia during the 1990 ’s . au commanders on the ground would retain tactical control , a joint au-un command would exercise operational oversight , and the un would establish force ’s overall strategic objectives .
new york – there was a remarkable similarity between european central bank president mario draghi ’s statement after a recent meeting of the ecb governing council and us federal reserve chair janet yellen ’s first congressional testimony : “ we can not know that their policy decisions will take into account only domestic conditions . ” in other words , emerging-market countries , though subject to significant spillover effects from advanced economies ’ monetary policies , are on their own . this confirms what emerging-country authorities have known for some time . in 2010 – following the fed ’s announcement of the third round of quantitative easing – brazilian finance minister guido mantega accused advanced countries of waging a global “ currency war . ” after all , advanced economies ’ policies were driving large and volatile capital flows into major emerging markets , pushing up their exchange rates and damaging their export competitiveness – a phenomenon that brazilian president dilma rousseff later referred to as a “ capital tsunami . ”
riyadh – saudi arabia has lately drawn much of the criticism for its leading role in the houthi rebels in yemen . some deride the kingdom , the richest arab state , for taking action against the poorest of the country . others have argued that the fighting against the houthis – zaidi shia-led religious-political movement – is just one element in the broader shia war that saudi arabia has supposedly waging . these are simplistic claims , reflecting a fundamental misunderstanding of the kingdom ’s role in yemen – and , indeed , throughout the arab world . saudi arabia is not out to get the zaidis .
china has shown itself adept at assertively promoting its national interests and playing classical balance-of-power geopolitics . but , to displace the us and assume the mantle of leadership in asia , china must do more than pursue its own interests or contain potential rivals . most fundamentally , what does china represent in terms of values and ideas ? in the absence of an answer to this question , china ’s overly assertive policies have proven a diplomatic boon for the us in strengthening and expanding america ’s security arrangements in asia . south korea has tightened its military alliances with the us , japan has backed away from a move to get the us to shift its marine airbase from okinawa , and india , vietnam , indonesia , and the philippines , among others , have drawn closer ties with the us .
rather than borrowing to pay for expensive “ school sets ” students , poles used their 500 + benefits instead . and while women ’s employment rates have declined as women left minimum-wage jobs , salaries , especially store clerks , have risen sharply . given the program ’s dramatic success , other countries follow suit . lithuania introduced a less generous version of the family 500 + in 2018 . those interested in poland ’s democracy , hungary , and elsewhere in europe and beyond should acknowledge that many voters are buying into the nationalist right ’s vision of a social state that advances national priorities , cares for the poor , and supports families .
different people read this to mean different things . that can make resolution easier to adopt , but more difficult to act on . so it comes as little surprise that there is still no peace between israelis and palestinians , despite countless diplomatic undertakings by the united states , the european union , and its members , the un and the parties themselves . to be fair , resolution 242 can not be blamed for this state of affairs . peace comes only when a conflict becomes ripe for resolution , which happens when the leaders of the principal protagonists are both willing and able to embrace compromise .
the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline – which bypass russia when it is completed – can not re-define the country ’s economic strategy to the extent that shevardnadze sought . instead , georgia ’s long-term economic success will depend on exports to the russian market : neither georgian wine nor georgian fruit is needed in the united states or italy . shevardnadze ’s emphasis on the btc pipeline also clearly reflects georgia ’s pro-western strategic orientation . that , too , is unlikely to change under saakashvili . on the other hand , this should become less a burden on bilateral relations as russia itself moves closer to nato , the us , and the european union .
but the lesson of libyan intervention is that division can be overcome if the will exists . europe is not a monolith , but in many areas it can still act coherently , even without a complete agreement . whether the outlier is germany or another eu member state , division need not be fatal . none of this means , of course , that international intervention in libya will succeed ; the situation in libya is far too complicated to predict the outcome . what it does mean , however , is that europe finds a way to work when it comes to foreign policy .
similarly , life expectancy at birth in ssa countries lagged 16 years behind the developing-country average , 14 years behind south asia ’s countries , and 21 years behind the countries of east asia , latin america , and the caribbean . in combined gross enrolment in primary , secondary , and higher education , ssa countries stood at 19 % below the developing world average , 11 % below south asian countries , 29 % below east asia and the pacific , and 32 % below latin america and the caribbean . what accounts for this broad-based underdevelopment ? until the late 1800 ’s , most of africa was unexplored and occupied by hunter-gatherers and subsistence agriculture practitioners . land was relatively abundant and allocated by tribal chiefs without regard to western-style property rights .
geneva – the recent sharp spike in food prices and growing concern about food security have sparked anxiety worldwide . the possibility of being unable to put food on the table fills parents with a deep sense of foreboding . and , because the world ’s poorest people spend a higher share of their income on food , they are the worst affected , raising the risk that years of progress in reducing poverty could be reversed . seemingly unalterable factors generating these record-setting increases in food prices – a shift toward higher protein diets in many countries , growing populations , greater use of biofuels , and climate change – suggest that elevated food prices are here to stay . in the absence of solutions that alleviate growing pressure on supplies , hunger , and malnutrition will increase .
and this is what the anti-corruption agenda often ends up stimulating : the creation of organizations that are more obsessed with abiding by new and burdensome processes than they are with achieving their stated goals . as harvard ’s lant pritchett , michael woolcock , and andrews argue when inept organizations adopt “ best practices ” such as financial management systems and procurement rules , they become too distracted by decision-making distorting protocols to do what they were established to do . as francis fukuyama pointed out , the development of a capable state that is accountable and ruled by law is one of crowning achievements in human civilization . it involves creating a shared sense of “ us , ” an imagined community on whose behalf the state acts . this is not an easy task when societies are deeply divided by ethnicity , religion , or social status .
by 2014 , he had taken over the presidential palace and surrounded himself by a guard meant evoke ottoman splendor , a fairly transparent effort to compensate for his inability to shape regional developments according to his – far less his country ’s – interests . this approach mirrors that of russian president vladimir putin , who uses sumptuous trappings and immense resources to claim credit for restoring his country ’s national pride , especially as he attempts to persuade ordinary russians to make economic sacrifices . likewise , erdoğan positioned himself as a kind of protector of turks ’ dignity and sense of themselves as constituting a great power . with the syrian conflict raging next door , however , erdoğan ’s claims are far from convincing . turkey is facing a refugee crisis that dwarfs that confronting europe ; the proliferation of terrorist attacks on its territory ; and heightened tensions with the kremlin , following its downing of a russian warplane near its border with syria in november .
president bill clinton ’s trip to africa highlighted to americans – usually most of africa ’s more than when it was in deep crisis – the dramatic changes underway on the continent . and at this year ’s world economic forum summit in south africa , nearly 900 leading businessmen from the americas , europe , asia , and africa met with new political leadership to chart a path forward . of course , intentions and results are two different matters . africa has a long road ahead . it is on most measures , several decades if not a century or more , behind the advanced economies in the economic organization and income levels .
in the last hundred years , contests of nationalism ( with god on both sides ) almost annihilated europe , and the cold war could have done so . the moment you believe that “ better dead than the red ” you are in trouble . dying to save your home , family , or country may be rational . but martyrdom is different and dangerous . as the romanian philosopher e. m. cioran puts it : “ once man loses his faculty of indifference he becomes a potential murderer ; once he transforms his idea into god the consequences , incalculable . ”
that , in a nutshell , was the soviet model that failed once and again would fail . if putin is serious about diversifying and strengthening russia ’s commodities-based economy , thereby improving the lives of his country ’s people , he must attract advanced technologies and foreign investment , especially from the west . for that , he must pursue democratic reforms , institutional regeneration , and renewed diplomatic ties with the west . russia is in no position to develop an alternative international system ; but , if putin continues to pursue an outdated and antagonistic foreign policy , he can undermine the existing one . at a time when the world faces so many destabilizing challenges , this would be bad for anyone .
cambridge – will the political resurgence of labor unions throw the wrench in the wheels of globalization ? or will their growing strength serve to make globalization more sustainable by fostering great equality and fairness ? one way or another , unions stand as the main wild card for the evolution of the us economic system in 2008 and beyond . unions ’ rising influence is evident in many recent events : german chancellor angela merkel ’s controversial agreement to raise minimum wages for postal employees ; several american presidential candidates ’ open misgivings about trade and immigration ; and the chinese leadership ’s nascent concerns about labor standards . along with their political clout , unions ’ intellectual respectability is also experiencing a renaissance .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
yet ambitious plans to boost its hydro-generating capacity significantly by damming international rivers have embroiled the country in water-disputes with most of its neighbors , even north korea . more broadly , china ’s dam-building passion has spawned two key developments . first , chinese companies now dominate the export market ’s global hydropower-equipment market . sinohydro alone has eclipsed western equipment suppliers like abb , alstom , general electric , and siemens , claiming to control half the market . second , the state-run hydropower industry ’s growing clout within china has led the government to campaign aggressively for overseas dam projects by offering low-interest loans to other governments .
new york – there are many recurring debates in american foreign policy , for example , isolationism versus internationalism , and unilateralism versus multilateralism . but no debate is more persistent than that between those who believe that american foreign policy ’s principal purpose should be to influence other states ’ external behavior and those who hold that it should shape their internal nature . this debate between “ realists ” and “ idealists ” is intense and longstanding . there were those who argued during the cold war that the united states should try to “ roll back ” the soviet union , bring down the communist system , and replace it with democratic capitalism . others deemed this to be too dangerous in an era defined by nuclear weapons , and the us opted instead for a containment policy , working to limit the reach of soviet power and influence .
if britain ’s transition payments continued near the current level of € 10 billion for the next five or six years realistically required to negotiate a permanent trading relationship , they would add up to the same amount . second , a british budget offer would be a powerful tool to create a “ deep and special partnership ” with europe that may claims to be her ultimate goal . until last month , may avoided defining this phrase , for fear of antagonizing her hardline europhobes party . but in her florence speech , may promised british businesses something close to the current level of access to eu markets . she also recognized that any privileged access to eu markets would require budget contributions , as was the case in norway and switzerland .
even if may strike an exit deal , may is impossible to negotiate and ratify a sector-by-sector trade agreement under two years . for example , the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement took seven years to hash out – and was almost “ amorphous ” by belgium ’s parliament of wallonia . there can be no “ phased implementation ” of the no-deal deal , so uk-based car companies , financial institutions , and other businesses that export to the eu should start preparing for the “ cliff edge ” that may want to avoid . may has no electoral mandate to pursue a hard brexit . many of the 52 % of britons who voted for leave want to remain in the single market , because do all those who voted for remain .
this is immensely important and healthy for all . for the first time , lively and intelligent debate is emerging around this issue , at the heart of the middle east ’s problems . open societies are incompatible with closed economies . a well-functioning private sector that creates adequate jobs and schools that educate the large young population for today ’s inter-connected world are prerequisites of progress . the israeli-palestinian issue is crucial for all the obvious reasons .
the electorate seemed tired of persistent confrontation between ceausescu and ponta , and , more generally , of noisy , ugly , and treacherous burlesque that their country ’s political scene has become . in his many successful years as mayor of sibiu , iohannis distinguished himself from the charismatic and shrewd politicians to whom romanians are accustomed , proving to be a sober , laconic , and pragmatic administrator . this demeanor is part of what made it so difficult to predict his victory over the more talkative ponta . but iohannis is is different not only in his political approach ; he is evangelical lutheran in a largely orthodox country . vigorous religious attacks mounted against him during the campaign highlighted the salience of the establishment – though orthodox leaders who backed ponta quickly adjusted their rhetoric to promote tolerance and cooperation .
some of these can be learned or cultivated , and courses that teach positive mental habits – like appreciating things that matter , or avoiding dwelling on setbacks – have demonstrated measurable improvements in wellbeing . the dalai lama recently helped launch a series of such courses in london , developed by happiness action , an organization that i helped to find . entire societies can also try to improve their happiness . british prime minister david cameron introduced the measurement of happiness into national statistics , and more recently , german chancellor angela merkel launched a program to promote citizen wellbeing . how countries are governed has a huge impact on happiness .
israel is but a small part of this overall pattern . more recently , there has been an event-driven shift toward cooperation with russia on ending syria ’s civil war , following a chemical-weapons attack that left at least 1,400 people dead . all of this raises a fundamental question : does the us even need an overarching design for its foreign policy ? if the outcome is to make its foreign policy less reliable and predictable – or , worse , susceptible to misunderstanding – then it certainly does not . the new world order has given way to a order-less world in which reliability and predictability have given way to rapid shifts in focus and fickle commitments .
the 1986 financial services act put an end to pure self-regulation . financial interests opposed it vigorously at the time , viewing it as the thin end of a dangerous wedge , though they could not have guessed just how thick that wedge eventually becomes . it is also difficult to trace back to the origins of the credit explosion in the 1980 ’s and the proliferation of exotic and poorly understood financial instruments that lay at the heart of the 2007-2008 crisis . most dangerous trends , including the upsurge of global imbalances and the economy ’s dramatic financialization , have accelerated dangerously from around 2004 onwards . thatcher herself was not an amorphous ast for credit , once famously said , “ i do n’t believe in credit cards . ”
a unilateral military strike would carry potentially dire consequences . alas , given us president barack obama ’s lamentable handling of the syria crisis , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu may conclude that he has no option but to go it alone . indeed , iranian hardliners may welcome an israeli strike , and even seek to provoke it , as a means of rallying the iranian population behind them . there is a better way to prevent the proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction in the region : a “ wmd-free zone , ” built on a system of incentives that include economic and technical support for countries that join , as well as security guarantees from the united nations security council ’s permanent members . the zone should also enforce economic and political sanctions on states that choose to remain outside , and – again , backed by the security council ’s permanent members – impose military sanctions on those that attempt to develop wmds .
cambridge – more than 130,000 people are said to have died in syria ’s civil war . united nations reports of atrocities , internet images of attacks on civilians , and accounts for the suffering of refugees rend our hearts . but what is to be done – and by whom ? more recently , canadian scholar-politician michael ignatieff has urged us president barack obama to impose a no-fly zone over syria , despite the near-certainty that russia would veto a united nations security council resolution needed to legalize such a move . in ignatieff ’s view , if syrian president bashar al-assad is allowed to prevail , his forces will obliterate the remaining sunni insurgents – at least for now ; with hatreds inflamed , blood eventually will flow again .
now that a raucous regional situation is being joined by a raucous american election season ( where no issue is excluded from the political arena ) , the task of assembling these components will be even more difficult . it is too early to assess the historical effect of the arab spring , but if there is one conclusion that can be drawn today , israel and its palestinian neighbors have little to do with it . for americans ( and others ) who believe that the arab world thinks about nothing but the palestinian cause , events this spring in north africa , the arabian peninsula , and even the levant should have convinced them otherwise . in the months ahead , we can expect the region ’s countries to remain focused on issues of governance and capacity building , human rights , and how to create economies that respond to their restive citizens ’ demands for a better life . new arab leaders will struggle mightily with the public ’s rising expectations , and their willingness to get behind the peace process will take a backseat to that struggle .
london – vulnerable communities are facing the brunt of climate change – from rising sea levels and extreme weather events to prolonged severe droughts and flooding . according to the world bank , without effective mitigation measures , climate change could push more than 100 million people into poverty by 2030 . to help the most vulnerable communities become more resilient to the effects of climate change , financial institutions should support small and medium-size enterprises . in emerging economies , smes account for as much as 45 % of employment and up to 33 % of gdp – and these numbers are significantly higher when informal small and medium-size enterprises are included . when the sme builds on its own climate resilience , it can cascading effects in communities around it .
cutting methane is actually cheaper than cutting carbon . and because methane is a much shorter-lived gas than co2 , we can prevent some of the worst of the short-term warming through its mitigation . agricultural production accounts for half of anthropogenic methane , but wastewater systems , landfills , and coal mining also create gas . professor claudia kemfert of the german institute for economic research ( diw ) argues that spending $ 14 billion to reduce methane would generate benefits – from reducing warming – between 1.4 and three times higher . we could also place a bigger focus on reducing black carbon , considered responsible for as much as 40 % of current net warming and one-third of arctic melting .
it has never had to deal with others as equals , unlike the traditional european powers , which have done so for centuries . china ’s challenge , however , may be more difficult . it must not only live with the reality of american power ; it must also take into account the american ideal . in 1989 , large numbers of chinese students took over tiananmen square to demand more rights , adopting a symbol resembling the statue of liberty . today , too , it is not america ’s military strength that threatens or challenges china , but rather the enduring attraction of the “ american dream . ”
but , collectively , eu member states – even without the united kingdom – would constitute a power of similar magnitude . by bolstering its strategic sovereignty , therefore , europe could make such a g3 world reality . a stronger and more unified europe , the argument goes , could then compete with the us and china in most domains – including by “ weaponizing ” its economic resources to further its geostrategic objectives . yet european leaders tempted by the prospect of a g3 world must address two related concerns . first , it is not clear how the eu will achieve the necessary level of integration when most important decisions within the bloc still require unanimity among member states .
after all , this is how the us administration has been dealing with canada and mexico . trump has temporarily exempted the two countries from tariffs , but now expects concessions from them in his administration ’s renegotiation of the north american free trade agreement . while the us has , on average , less tariff protection than europe , the difference is minor ( europe ’s unweighted customs tariff averages 5.2 % , versus 3.5 % for the us ) . both countries maintain relatively open economies with stronger protections in specific sectors . regulatory divergences are a far more important obstacle to us-european trade than tariffs .
do n’t i somehow “ own ” it ? how can a commercial firm not only deny me the right to know my own genetic profile unless i pay their fee for a diagnostic test that might be fair enough , but also prevent any other firm from offering me a similar test unless those firms pay it a license fee ? proprietary rights for commercial firms over the most basic element of individual genetic identity should not be enforceable . we do not need to believe in genetic determinism to find that argument compelling .
for that reason , the global alliance ’s international secretariat against traffic in women applauded amnesty international for supporting decriminalization . there was also opposition from some feminist organizations , which accused amnesty for protecting “ pimps and johns rights . ” instead , they argued , we should “ end the demand for paid sex ” – but without explaining how this is to be done . in species that reproduce sexually , sex is , for obvious reasons , one of the strongest and most pervasive desires . humans are no exception in this respect .
propelled by demand and outsourcing from advanced economies , emerging markets won a growing share of their soaring trade in goods ; by 2014 , they accounted for more than half of global trade flows . since the great recession , however , growth in global merchandise trade has stalled , owing largely to anemic demand in the world ’s major economies and plummeting commodity prices . but deeper structural changes also play a role . for a wide range of goods , automation means that production location and outsourcing decisions no longer depend primarily on labor costs .
nonetheless , there is strong bipartisan support in the us for maintaining military bases in afghanistan , as a means of projecting hard power , and an increasingly charged confrontation between the us and russia over ukraine has boosted that support considerably . in fact , former us secretary of state condoleezza rice explicitly linked russia ’s actions in ukraine with “ talk of withdrawal from afghanistan , whether the security situation warrants it or not . ” according to rice , anything less than a residual force of 10,000 american troops sends the message that the us is not serious about helping to stabilize afghanistan – a message that would embolden russian president vladimir putin to further . what she does not seem to recognize is that america ’s deteriorating ties with russia – a key conduit for america ’s military supplies to afghanistan – could undercut its basing strategy . the us is clearly convinced that a continued military presence in afghanistan is in its own interests .
in denmark , what is to come , poland ’s foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , told the tabloid superekspres after the summit that the eu was pursuing “ a policy of double standards and deceptions . ” according to waszczykowski , poland not only must drastically reduce [ its ] level of trust in the eu , ” but “ must also begin to pursue a negative policy , ” by blocking “ other initiatives or playing a very aggressive game . ” in fact , polish prime minister beata szydło has already launched that strategy , by refusing to sign off on the summit ’s official record , as if this would render the outcome irrelevant to poland . such infantile ploys have become all too characteristic of the pis government , which has also refused to publish polish constitutional tribunal rulings , as if this makes them legally non-binding . the government has undoubtedly paralyzed the court , thereby undermining the rule of law in poland .
this will require massive investments in new technologies and resources , rather than a “ struggle to finish ” over middle eastern oil . important energy technologies will include converting coal to liquids ( such as gasoline ) , using tar sands , and oil shale oil , and growth in non-fossil-fuel energy sources . indeed , there is excellent potential for low-cost solar power , zero-emitting coal-based technologies , and safe and reliable nuclear power . solar radiation equals roughly 10,000 times our current energy use , and we tap into solar power in many fundamental ways – food production , wind power , hydroelectric power , solar heating , solar-thermal electricity , solar panels – but the possibilities for vastly increased use of inexpensive , widely available , and environmentally friendly solar power are enormous .
in the 1950 ’s , asia conjured up images of poverty and starvation . there was brief political infatuation among some westerners in the 1960 ’s with nehru ’s jackets and maoist revolution , but it was brief . as john lennon sang chanted in 1968 , “ if you ’re carrying pictures of chairman mao , you ai will not make it with anyone anyhow . ” asia ’s resurgence began with japan ’s economic success . by the end of the century , japan ’s remarkable performance not only made japan ’s wealthy , but also enhanced the country ’s soft power .
but , with austerity under fire and eu countries looking to stimulate spending , the council should also consider the budget shape , ensuring that the mff does not impede future growth and investment . for example , the proposed budget slashes funding for cross-border infrastructure projects , including the expansion of high-speed broadband networks into rural areas and the development of transport and energy infrastructure . but the eu can add considerable value by coordinating transnational infrastructure projects , thereby achieving economies of scale , and avoiding duplication of national spending . europeans would directly benefit through improved internet access , lower energy costs , and more efficient transport links . likewise , to lay the foundations for future economic growth , the eu should nurture new , sustainable industries , and innovative small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) – not cut funding for important research programs like the 2020 horizon .
in the wake of the sichuan earthquake , criticism of china will be even more muted . in 1997 , denmark , a nation whose people are demonstrably committed to human rights , asked the united nations human rights commission in geneva to look to the ccp ’s long track record of abuses . china responded by canceling the danish trade mission . france got the message , and the french soon stopped promoting human-rights resolutions directed at china . the french were then rewarded with a string of lucrative contracts in china .
the global agenda in this area determines norms and norms that shape how public and private actors promote health , prevent disease , and administer care . it includes research initiatives and global public goods such as vaccines and emergency-preparedness programs for epidemic outbreaks . and it brings people together to work toward providing universal health coverage and ensuring everyone ’s right to health . in the sdg framework , separate gender and health issues are intertwined , because gender itself is a major driver of health outcomes . gender can influence whether one smokes tobacco , exercises regularly , or access nutritious food .
still , just the presence of a plurality of women has an impact . for example , studies of us courts with multiple judges show that male judges are more willing to hear bias cases when one woman is on the bench , and significantly more willing when a second woman is added . “ each of us , ” noted sandra day o’connor , the first female member of the american supreme court , renowned for not wanting to be perceived as “ female ” justice , “ brings to our job , whatever it is , our lifetime of experience , and our values . ” in other words , women bring fresh perspective , heard clearly only when a critical mass of them is present in any institution . consider a woman ’s perspective on conflict .
but choosing action for the greater good does not absolve us from moral culpability . our hands become dirty when we help a terrorist or a dictator . the philosopher michael walzer puts it well : “ it ’s easy to get one ’s hands dirty in politics . ” he immediately adds , however , that getting one ’s hands dirty in this way is “ often the right thing to do . ” ultimately , an adviser to authoritarian leaders can not escape the dilemma .
but in 1991 , 800,000 yemenis were expelled because they were seen as domestic security threats in the run-up to the first gulf war . since then , yemeni labor has been banned from saudi arabia . embittered and unemployed , young yemeni men often become subject to another saudi policy gone awry – its propagation for sunni wahhabi exports form islam . with new wahhabi madrasas popping up everywhere in yemen because of saudi financial support , it is small wonder that the number of yemeni jihadis has grown exponentially . but yemen , too , is engaged in its own destructive policies .
independently , honjo and colleagues identified another protein that performed a similar function . these fundamental studies have now led to the development of new , powerful immunotherapies that are effective against cancer . but we still have much to learn . for some cancers , immunotherapy has been revolutionary , enabling people on the verge of death to live healthy lives with no detectable traces of illness . yet the immunotherapy revolution is still in its infancy .
but it has followed this approach on the macro level and for problems elsewhere in the economy without looking at itself . silicon valley ’s citizens must start applying their skill at innovation – and their pride in “ breaking things ” – to themselves . the only way to evolve is by adapting to new environmental pressures , and now silicon valley – owing in large part to its own behavior – faces plenty of it . unless it changes , it will overtake it . the good news is that if any place has proved to be able to innovate , it is silicon valley .
establishing a structured , well-functioning goat market helps to create a positive feedback loop . if farmers are confident that their goats will not be stolen , and can sell them at a decent price , they are better able to invest in improving their production system . here , too , the innovation platform helps . for starters , we have trained farmers how to improve their soil by expanding legume crops , residues of which can be used as goat fodder . recognizing the benefits of such practices , farmers immediately began to increase crop density , applying manure , and rotating crops , thereby boosting yields and producing more fodder for healthier goats .
in the early nineteenth century , wages stagnated for almost 50 years before picking up again . that may have been an extreme situation . but for lower-skilled workers , the transition underway today could prove just as wrenching . with fears of rising inequality already rising , governments will need to rethink policies to provide income and job-transition support to displaced workers . looking ahead , policymakers and businesses should keep five imperatives in mind .
this is largely a matter of thinking , not of course . fortunately , mindsets are beginning to shift . at the 2016 au summit in kigali , african leaders recognized that , despite the au ’s achievements , it remained under-resourced and inefficient , operating below potential , and failing to implement many decisions . to reinvigorate the au , they tasked rwandan president paul kagame with guiding a process in which all of them have been deeply involved . less than three years later , a set of reform recommendations produced by kagame and the pan-african committee of experts that he appointed – through an inclusive consultative process involving african leaders and other stakeholders – are being implemented .
both countries have floating exchange rates , meaning that their central banks are not supposed to intervene in the currency market by buying and selling reserves . more fundamentally , why do we think of reserves differently than we think about other assets on national balance sheets ? suppose that ilan goldfajn , brazil ’s star central banker , issues the new york bond , and uses the dollar proceeds to enlarge the country ’s international reserves . at best , market participants applaud the decision ; at worst , they will be indifferent , because brazil ’s net debt position will not change . now suppose one of argentina ’s private agricultural exporters also issues international bond holdings and uses dollars to enlarge one of its modern , highly competitive dairy plants to sell more powdered milk to asia .
in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy that is transforming india into a tech powerhouse and setting the stage for a digital future . in france , the government has invested in an extensive national digital plan , which is expected to create 1.1 million jobs over the next 3-5 years , and is contributing $ 101 billion to gdp over the next decade . while other countries are embracing robust digital strategies , the us is falling behind . despite having led the internet race in the 1990s , the us is now the only major developed economy without a clear digitization plan . the consequences are already starting to show : according to the 2016 bloomberg innovation index , the us is now the eighth most innovative country in the world , having fallen two spots since 2015 .
fortunately , some countries are introducing innovative measures to address this problem . in georgia , for example , political parties that comprise at least 30 % of each gender on their electoral lists receive a 30 % supplement from the state budget . similarly , in iran , political parties lose 50 % of their state funding if their candidate pool includes less than 30 % of either gender . beyond financing constraints , women face high social and cultural barriers to political participation . more care obligations , reinforced by public perceptions of the role of “ women , ” severely undermine women ’s ability to run for public office .
by all accounts , iran is a deeply divided society between those who want their country to be a respected member of the international community , and those for whom iran ’s international standing is better served through a nuclear-weapons program . the international sanctions that iran has imposed would appear to have been supporting the latter , rather than the former . that might well be true if iran were a full-fledged democracy , genuinely accountable to the will of the people . but there is scant evidence to suggest that sanctions have done anything to slow iran ’s nuclear program . moreover , as is often the case , sanctions may have done more to decimate the middle class and further weaken the least powerful than to motivate iran ’s leaders to seek a deal .
one hopes that the paris agreement changes that . as with the information-technology revolution , advances in clean energy will require engagement between the public and private sectors . because we do not yet know which innovations will be the most important in decarbonizing the economy , investment must be allocated to a wide array of choices . long-term , patient finance must also be available to help companies minimize uncertainty and bridge the so-called “ death valley ” between basic research and commercialization . the bec ’s argument – that the “ new model ” will be public-private partnerships between governments , research institutions , and investors – shines a welcome spotlight on the relationship .
but those challenges will not be addressed , and opportunities will not be realized unless children everywhere have the skills they need . for these reasons , my country , senegal , has long been committed to giving its children – especially girls and those from disadvantaged backgrounds – quality education . in 2017 , we invested 25 % of our domestic budget – representing close to 7 % of gdp – in educating our children and young people . moreover , we plan to provide up to 90 % of funding for a new program to improve senegal ’s education system between now and 2030 . even so , senegal struggles to meet all the costs of strengthening its education system .
the objective must be to foster european security integration ( in its broadest sense ) , lifting europe to the forefront of global security . as member states advance this path , propelled forward by technological and operational excellence and innovation , they will find avenues for eliminating unnecessary spending and optimize resource use . europe ’s defense industry will not be able to make progress without a well-functioning market – open , transparent , and equal opportunity for all european suppliers . advances in the defense industry lead to significant positive externalities , such as civil-military synergies and investment in research and development , which are fundamental to growth , innovation , and future competitiveness . a critical component in the coordination and proper functioning of european security and defense policy is the european defense agency .
for example , china banned shark-fin soup , traditional delicacy , at official government dinners and functions – a move that contributed to a 30 % drop in shark-fin sales from last december to april . in guangzhou ’s southern city , the center for china ’s shark-fin trade , vendors reported a 82 % decline in sales over the past two years . it should not be difficult to spur countries to take action to protect their shark populations , given that shark ’s economic value slumts when it is killed . a study by the australian marine institute found that palau ’s shark-diving industry is worth far more than its shark-fishing industry . a single reef shark that frequents major dive sites in palau is worth roughly $ 179,000 annually , or $ 1.9 million over its lifetime ; the same shark would be worth roughly $ 108 dead .
tudjman 's excuse was that croatia needed to concentrate power for its struggle with serbian aggression . the truth is that it used a negotiated hostility with slobodan milosevic to solidify personal rule and russian-style plunder of state properties by its coterie of loyalists . to accomplish this with the minimal fuss that he muzzled the press and electronic media . despite hostility between serbia and croatia , dealing with the dictator with milosevic was simple . because both tudjman and milosevic believed in ethnically homogeneous states , they fomented forced population transfers ( ie , ethnic cleansing ) and the partition of territory between the other .
the current proposed arrangements would permit the chinese government to veto any candidate that it has not liked , prompting criticism that what is on offer is iranian-style elections : “ you can vote for anyone we choose . ” hong kong ’s government could call for changes to increase the openness and fairness of which the chief executive is chosen without abandoning its current method in favor of universal suffrage . according to the basic law , the election committee should be “ broadly representative ” – a provision that the committee ’s current composition violates . its membership is chosen by only 7 % of hong kong ’s electorate , and its voting procedures seek to prevent the nomination of any candidate who can harbor democratic sympathies . since 1997 , 55-61 % of voters voted for democratic candidates in legislative council elections .
in promoting democracy , liberals reject the argument used by today ’s rulers that the first free election would be the last , because islamists would win and establish theocratic regimes . reformers insist that the vast majority support moderate solutions , or at least that radical islamist groups would have to become pragmatic to compete for power and govern . that case is not yet proven . january ’s palestinian elections won a relatively moderate leader because he was put forward by the ruling fatah movement and islamists boycotted the election . but in gaza strip local elections soon afterward , radical islamists who use terrorism won seven of the ten municipal councils .
increasingly , the industry is implementing approaches that have ensured success in other sectors , such as reducing procurement costs and deploying lean principles in manufacturing . as clean-tech firms continue to scale up , additional opportunities will be created to improve . a shakeout in the clean-tech sector has been tough ; but it has also been typical of emerging technologies , and , by weeding out weaker players , has made the sector more robust . this is a global segment meeting a growing global need . there is little room for doubt that the clean-tech industry can expect to have plenty of sunny days ahead .
princeton – the economic gloom that shrouded the world in 2008 has led many to ask whether the apparent prosperity that preceded it was real . we know that in countries as diverse as china , india , russia , and the united states , the number of billionaires has soared . more generally , the top 1 % of the population has prospered . but the gap between rich and poor has widened , and at least in the us , incomes in the poor and the middle class have stagnated ated.ampnbsp ; no wonder that many are now skeptical of taxpayer-funded schemes to bail out banks , insurance companies , and even automakers .
their core goals are to enable companies and organizations to set sustainability targets and key performance indicators ; monitor , prepare , and disclose comparative data measuring their economic and esg performance ; and integrate sustainable production and consumption practices into corporate business strategies and models . global awareness of this topic is growing more recently . recently , mark carney , governor of the bank of england and chair of the g20 ’s financial stability board , and michael bloomberg , former new york city mayor and ceo bloomberg lp , issued an announcement regarding climate data . given the scale of the challenge , however , it is also important to ensure effective coordination and harmonization of these efforts with relevant standard-setters , regulators , and professional organizations . the american securities and exchange commission , for one , is already discussing these issues , as it analyzes options for responding to investor and business needs regarding esg issues .
in particular , small landholders need new tools that enable them to boost productivity while establishing more sustainable production methods . this month ’s g-20 summit and the united nations conference on sustainable development in rio de janeiro are pivotal opportunities to establish a more holistic international approach to global economic recovery and sustainable development . the pursuit of thriving , inclusive economies must be linked to efforts to address climate change and achieve universal food security . but the outcomes the world needs – viable financing options and frameworks to support economic transformation , as well as integrated environmental and sustainable development governance – can not be achieved without political will . success at los cabos will depend on g-20 leaders ’ ability to galvanize the same level of collective , concerted action that enabled them to curb global recession in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis .
new york – global financial markets experienced their worst crisis since the great depression of the 1930s . major financial institutions went bust ; others were bought up on cheap or survived only after major bailouts . global stock markets fell by more than 50 % ; interest-rate spreads skyrocketed ; severe liquidity and credit crunch appeared ; and many emerging-market economies staggered to the international monetary fund for help . so what lies ahead in 2009 ? is the worst behind us or ahead ?
good news is not news , media executives often mutter . and it takes just a minute on twitter or cable news to confirm the old adage : “ if it bleeds , it leads . ” add to that a second psychological bias neuroscientists are discussing : because our species have evolved to fend off danger , we tend to be more sensitive to bad news . we react more acutely to pictures of starving children than to reports about improving nutrition levels in africa . and , of course , we tend to remember those horrible pictures much longer .
china ’s government has apparently begun to appreciate the limitations of cover-ups and stonewalling , and perhaps also the merits of allowing some room for free speech . this thirst for unbiased information highlights the dramatic change that the internet has brought to china ’s political landscape . nowadays , the government no longer monopolizes information and the right to process it . insightful bloggers attract considerably more clicks than do official mouthpieces . a “ virtual civil society ” is in making .
new york – countries often devote public funds to promoting exports of their own goods and services . but devoting resources to promote imports – as china does with its inaugural international import expo , which just opened in shanghai – is truly rare . the annual import expo , which will be part of china ’s overall import promotion strategy , has attracted thousands of companies worldwide with the promise of large orders from chinese firms , including state-owned enterprises tasked with expo making success . if the expo succeeds in raising imports , one might expect it to reduce china ’s trade surplus . but that need not be the case .
london – the historian norman stone , who died in june , always insisted that history students learn foreign languages . language gives access to a culture of people , and culture to its history . its history tells us how it sees itself and others . knowledge of languages should thus be an essential component of the historian ’s technical equipment . it is the key to understanding the past and the future of international relations .
while that scenario is simple , reality is not . the first nagging question is this : will elections really be held next january ? prime minister iyad allawi assures a world that there will be , and president bush echoes his words . more neutral observers – and , indeed , daily news bulletins about bombings and hostage to take and “ insurgents ” – cast doubt on that prospect . the probability that the iraqi elections will be held this coming january must be less than 50 % , and we can be certain that these will not be free and fair elections throughout the country .
atlanta – as the united states marks the first anniversary of us president donald trump ’s election , the question of how trump has won still commands attention , with russia ’s role moving increasingly to center stage . each new revelation in the 2016 us investigation of russian meddling in the 2016 campaign brings the vulnerability of america ’s democratic process into sharper focus . last week , congress unveiled legislation that would force facebook , google , and other social-media giants to disclose who buys online advertising , thereby closing the loophole that russia exploited during the election . but making amends through technical fixes and public promises to be better corporate citizens will solve only the most publicized problem . the tougher challenge will be to strengthen institutions that are vitally important to the functioning of democracy – specifically , civics education and local journalism .
yet , if the ends are clear , politicians are often clueless . in america ’s presidential campaign , trade protection is fashionable again . but , while import restrictions may alleviate the pain of some manufacturing districts , they will not prevent companies from relocating where growth opportunities are the strongest . they will not protect workers from technological change ; they will not rerecreate yesterday ’s development patterns .
a move by military officers in tripoli against qaddafi and his sons might end the conflict , with military commanders gaining credit – and political capital . but four decades of military-based dictatorship may be enough for libyans , a majority of whom have never really benefited from their country ’s wealth or potential . when it comes to producing terrorists and undocumented migrants – two critical issues for europe – arab military dictators have an inglorious record . algeria in the 1990 ’s is a potent reminder of this , and western governments are unwilling to stage the vicious cycle of repressive autocrats producing violent theocrats and refugees to restart . getting “ stuck in transition ” is a third possible scenario , with libya remaining in a “ gray zone ” – neither fully-fledged democracy nor a dictatorship , but “ semi-free . ”
but , of course , if they were involved in a case against muslims , that had to be handled in an islamic court . when a muslim and non-muslim faced each other in a trial , muslims enjoyed significant advantages . first , the judges ’ training predisposed them to give the benefit of any doubt to a fellow muslim . second , the court staff was entirely muslim , which meant that testimony was viewed solely from a muslim perspective . third , whereas muslims could attest against anyone , christians and jews could attest only against another non-muslim .
some argue that the real point is the risk of attack , and the destruction that might occur if weapons of mass destruction are deployed . they employ something like cost/benefit analysis , based on subjective sense of danger . but there is no way to make objective assessments of fear , and even if it were possible , using cost/benefit analysis to invade another country ’s territory would wreak havoc with the global system of national sovereignty and international law . the better way to make sense of self-defense is to invoke two principles that underlie legal claims of justification in both domestic and international law . the first principle is reciprocity , which implies that if israel had the right to attack osirak reactor , then iraq had the right to bomb the israeli nuclear facility at dimona .
most economies are becoming less equitable , with widening gaps between rich and poor . and violent conflict remains widespread , with the world ’s poorest regions the most vulnerable to outbreaks . with these challenges in mind , world leaders agreed last year at the rio +20 summit to adopt the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . the world ’s governments asked the un secretary-general to coordinate the preparations for these goals by 2015 to ensure a seamless transition from the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , which expire this year . a crucial meeting of the un general assembly will take place at the end of september for this purpose .
today starbucks employs roughly 182,000 people worldwide – 50,000 more than facebook , google , and apple combined . an argentine , jordanian , malaysian , or spaniard who can visualize and create thriving global demand for a product or service – just as spain ’s amancio ortega did with zara – is just as much an entrepreneur as the next bill gates . from lahore to lagos , mexico city to mumbai , governments are looking at their own populations as pools of talent waiting to tapped . it is time for diplomats to do the same . they should support and encourage job creators and problem solvers , and turn development assistance into investment .
although such politicians often describe themselves as “ rightist ” , their actual policies , such as those of former slovak prime minister vladimir meciar , are in fact demagogic populist or authoritarian . the situation of the political right in each central european country is also influenced by experiences rooted in history and tradition . political developments in slovakia during the last 20 years of communism set the czech republic and slovakia apart from both poland and hungary . while both the polish and hungarian communist parties experienced internal liberalization , which allowed relatively large semi-official zones of activity outside communist control , slovakia after the soviet-led invasion of 1968 became a rigid neo-stalinist regime . when communist regimes collapsed in 1989 , poland ’s communist parties and hungary transformed themselves into credible democratic-left parties that became formidable opponents of the newly emerging political right .
the eu ’s maastricht treaty specifically reserves this tax-and-transfer authority to member states , a reflection of europeans ’ unwillingness to transfer funds to other countries ’ people in the way americans are willing to do among people in different states . the third important difference is that all us states are obliged by their constitutions to balance their annual operating budgets . while “ rainy day ” funds that accumulate in boom years are used to deal with temporary revenue shortfalls , states ’ “ general obligation ” borrowing is limited to capital projects like roads and schools . even a state like california , seen by many as the poster child for fiscal profligacy , now has an annual budget deficit of just 1 % of its gdp and a universal obligation of just 4 % of gdp . these limits on state-level budget deficits are a logical implication of the fact that american states can not create money to fill fiscal gaps .
i certainly do not feel safe as an economics professor ! i have no doubt that sometime later this century , one can buy pocket professors – perhaps with holographic images – as easily as one can buy the pocket kasparov chess computer today . so let ’s return to india and china . globalization has proceeded at a rapid pace through much of the last century , and at a particularly accelerated pace during its previous two decades . yet the vast body of evidence suggests that technological change has been a much bigger driver of global wage patterns than trade .
specialization in each country enables people to gain more of what they want , which , especially at higher income levels , includes cleaner air and water . when trade brings down costs , it can benefit environmental goods just as much as it benefits other goods . so , is trade globalization , on balance , better or worse ? some empirical studies of cross-country data find net beneficial effects on environmental degradation indicators like local sulfur-dioxide air pollution . provided that countries have effective national governance institutions , trade , and growth give them the means to clean their air .
tokyo – during the cold war , the term “ kremlinology ” referred to efforts to understand what was taking place at the commanding heights of the soviet union – indeed , behind the entire iron curtain . kremlinologists monitored ( in whatever way possible ) who was up and who was down among the core soviet leadership . great significance was read into who signed an official document , or who stood where atop lenin ’s tomb in red square , when reviewing military parades . all that was grammar-school stuff compared to efforts to decipher the regime in north korea , where the truth is far more opaque . consider what happened on december 17 .
in desperate , last-ditch efforts , the imf is now inventing “ spill-over news ” for a few systemically important economies , to be conducted at the margins of its country ( article iv ) consultations . this initiative is destined to fail – as has the imf ’s multilateral surveillance exercise or g-20 peer reviews in recent history . even if massive spillovers are clearly recognized , it is difficult to see how this exercise would solve the fundamental problem behind currency war : the major players ’ apparent unwillingness to reconcile vastly different national interests . so what should latin american economies do ? they surely have a right to defend themselves , whether through foreign-exchange intervention and the consequent accumulation of reserves ( a potentially lucrative option if capital flows are indeed temporary ) , imposing capital controls , or other current current current current current current current current current current current current current current current current current current current current current round of development , or , current current current current current round of development , the international monetary fund , and the us federal reserve requirements .
if china let its currency float back then , it would depreciate in value , deepening the crisis . countries were warned : avoid trade deficits and build up reserves , because they are the key frontline defense . east asian countries followed that advice , and for good reason : they saw the consequences of insufficient reserves . east asian governments knew then that the imf ’s policies would deepen downturns , but were helpless to resist . the imf had the money it needed .
welfare-to-work programs in michigan and wisconsin served as model for federal welfare reform under president bill clinton , and obamacare is based on massachusetts ’s health-care system , introduced under republican governor mitt romney . likewise , from 2000 to 2014 , by enacting a variety of energy policies – from broad climate action plans to mandated renewable-energy standards – 33 states cut carbon dioxide emissions while expanding their economies . more recently , some states have introduced cap-and-trade systems to place carbon pricing , and many are already on track to meet obama ’s clean-energy plan targets . half of all us states have now legalized marijuana in some form , with eight embracing full legalization . three states have implemented laws offering paid family leave .
cambridge – “ i want to be part of it – new york , new york , ” frank sinatra sang of the city that has attracted so many of the world ’s most ambitious people , from artists and performers to businesspeople and bankers . in a sense , this is not a difficult phenomenon ; metropolises like new york city , with its multicultural populations , multinational corporations , and a multitude of talented individuals rife with opportunities . but the impact of large cities runs deeper than economic or even cultural power ; cities can fundamentally transform people ’s lives – and even the people themselves . in 2010 , geoffrey west , together with a team of researchers , discovered that several socioeconomic measures – both positive and negative – increase with the size of the local population . in other words , the larger the city , the higher the average wage , productivity levels , the number of patents per person , crime rates , prevalence of anxiety , and the incidence of hiv .
( the eventual winner of the bid is likely to be required to enter into a joint-production arrangement with india , which american companies would not have done . ) as if all this were not enough to decide against america , clincher might well have been india ’s desire to avoid any further procurement controversy at a time when allegations of corruption beset it from all sides . a decision made on technical grounds , many felt , would have been easier to defend than one based on political considerations . against this are the unambiguous advantages of pleasing a major new ally and developing a pattern of bilateral military cooperation in the delivery , training , and operations that have yet to evolve . at a time when america ’s nuclear-reactor purchases – made possible by the historic deal negotiated by the bush administration – were held up by america ’s insistence on exemptions from supplier liability in the event of an accident , some regard india ’s spurning of us aircraft as a gratuitous rejection of an opportunity to demonstrate that friendship with india helps america , too .
as a result , big transnational institutions are lobbying hard for a pan-european approach to banking supervision and regulation ( and implicitly for fiscal bailouts should that supervision and regulation fail ) . in the case of banks that required state rescues , european competition rules require divestment and downsizing . institutions like the royal bank of scotland , which in 2009 headed the list of the world ’s largest international banks , are pruned by the eu ’s directorate general for competition . even stronger banks are being pressed to increase their capital reserves . in most cases , this means that they will continue to cut back on lending , worsening the impact of the financial crisis on the rest of the economy .
north korea immediately did just that , threatening to carry out a “ enveloping ” strike on american territory by guam . trump shot back that the american military is “ locked and loaded . ” and , indeed , as this rhetorical fire exchange unfolded , the us has reportedly been preparing revised military options for striking north korea . more ominous , according to a confidential american intelligence report , north korea has achieved a capability to miniaturize nuclear warheads , and may have as many as 60 bombs . the stakes are rising in kim and trump ’s game of chicken .
two conclusions can be drawn from all this . the first is that we all owe at least some of our success to others , given the public goods that society provides . this calls for more modesty and restraint in determining the highest salaries , not for moral reasons . the second conclusion is that the most privileged classes that have benefited the most from solidarity from others , notably the poor , can no longer deny the latter ’s contributions . but do n’t hold your breath waiting for them to agree .
when sweden ’s did , swedes said no . they understood that unemployment would rise if the country ’s monetary policy were set by a central bank that focused single-mindedly on inflation ( and also on insufficient attention to financial stability ) . the economy would suffer because the economic model underlying the eurozone was predicated on power relationships that disadvantaged workers . and , sure enough , what we are seeing now , 16 years after the eurozone institutionalized those relationships , is the antithesis of democracy : many european leaders want to see the end of prime minister alexis tsipras ’s leftist government . after all , it is extremely inconvenient to have in greece a government that is so opposed to the kinds of policies that have done so much to increase inequality in so many advanced countries , and that is so committed to curbing the unbridled power of wealth .
durham – this year , islamist politics has faced massive setbacks in two major predominantly muslim countries : egypt and turkey . but it is too soon to write off political islam as a capable participant – even a leading power – in a pluralist democracy . just one year after mohamed morsi became egypt ’s first elected president , millions of egyptians took to the streets , triggering a military coup that ousted him . morsi ’s political incompetence and lack of vision in the face of economic collapse would have been enough to diminish support for his government . but his rejection of pluralism and the pursuit of an islamic dictatorship , exemplified by his efforts to centralize power in the brotherhood ’s hands and place himself beyond a review of egypt ’s judiciary , proved to be his undoing .
on may 19 , a group of korean researchers published in the journal science ’s research results that , for the first time , isolated human embryonic stem cell lines specifically tailored to match the dna of male and female patients of various ages . the next day , british researchers at newcastle university announced that they had successfully produced a cloned human embryo using donated eggs and genetic material from stem cells . both breakthroughs constitute a stunning advance in stem cell research . embryonic stem cells are pluripotent , meaning that they have the capacity to develop into any type of human tissue . this carries great promise , especially for spinal cord injuries and diseases .
this includes ramping up the tradable-permit program by lowering the threshold beyond which firms must pay , and eliminating exemptions from permits for firms or industries . such actions would not only boost fiscal sustainability – additional revenues could total 2 % of gdp – but also improve the efficiency of overall resource allocation . finally , china can lower government spending ( in the medium term ) by streamlining its vast administrative hierarchy . in recent decades , many of the largest global companies have taken advantage of new technologies to reduce employee layers , from top executives to factory workers , thereby reducing costs and boosting efficiency . by contrast , china ’s government has retained the same six-layer administrative structure – beginning with the central government and moving down through provinces , prefectures , counties , townships , and villages – since the founding of the people ’s republic 70 years ago .
indeed , the risks of a world without nuclear weapons – or only a minimal number of them – are enormous . nuclear deterrence – a threat to kill hundreds of thousands or millions of people – is a concept that does not fit into traditional morals . yet it has worked , preventing catastrophic wars while making people more civilized and cautious . when one pole of nuclear deterrence weakened , owing to russia ’s political decline in the 1990 ’s , nato , the defense union of democratic and peaceful states , committed aggression against yugoslavia . now that russia has restored its capability , such a move would be unthinkable .
as tragedy unfolded , however , scientists gained a greater understanding of the disease . prions seem to defy all conventional wisdom , surviving pressure-cooking , irradiation , and even incineration at 340 ° c for four hours – treatments that routinely and reliably use to deactivate all known viruses and bacteria . moreover , prions lack their own genes . prion gene is provided by an infected individual in which it resides in an innocuous state . infectious prion then hijacks the body machinery , reprogramming it into a willing executioner of prion replication .
performing arts advocates in europe point to the us , where , among other things , music directors of even major orchestras are now expected to participate fully in fundraising activities and be active in local communities on orchestras behalf . the same is fear , will happen in europe . some conductors , not wanting to carry the tin cup as they wave their batons , have rejected important posts in the us for this reason , feeling that it would interfere with their art . daniel barenboim is rumored to have left the chicago symphony orchestra partly because he objected to fundraising demands that he made . but us experience shows that getting artistic leaders like orchestra music directors to participate in fundraising need not be bad for the artistic side of the job .
we should not forswear that option , but we should consider others , not least because the security council – whose backing will be politically if not legally crucial – may never support invasion . it would be odd to uphold the council ’s authority by means that it has failed to get its approval . the council is more likely to accept the possibility of mounting punitive air strikes program – going well beyond what was done in 1998 – on suspected wmd sites , presidential compounds , republican guard and other targets of armed-force . this would hurt and weaken saddam , and establish unquestioned message that defiance of the un carries severe sanctions . the council could also declare that any fresh aggression , or any use , threat or transfer of wmd , would trigger saddam ’s removal and his pursuit as an international criminal like slobodan milosevic .
soon thereafter , the inspectors returned to tarmiya , and the us was not the first to join the inspectors . this time , they knew exactly what the huge magnets were for : producing weapons grade nuclear materials . this time , dr. ahmed , the iraqi counterpart , realized that the game was up . some of the inspectors he knew well , had dined with them on collegial terms during visits to vienna . that he would lie to them so brazenly was incomprehensible to his friends on the inspection team .
but china ’s dizzying rise has also dispelled three leading myths about the impact of economic growth . the first is that growth reduces inequality and increases happiness . in 1955 , the economist simon kuznets hypothesized that income inequality would rise sharply and then decline – in the pattern of inverted “ u ” or bell – as countries underwent economic development . given the pace of china ’s economic growth since 1978 , its experience refutes this claim more powerfully than any other case . after all , china is now one of the most unequal countries in the world .
pakistan thus took one more step toward developing a political system based on the rule of law . democracy , of course , always means more than periodically holding free and fair elections . it must also mean developing robust rule of law , granting people enforceable property rights , and providing institutional means to settle their disputes . pakistan held free and fair elections in 2002 and 2007 , and is preparing to hold another at the end of 2012 or early 2013 . had the supreme court not removed gilani , it would have been the first prime minister to complete his full term .
on the contrary , the cuban government continues to detain prisoners of conscience and criminalize demands for a society-wide dialogue . this year marks the peoples of europe ’s marking the twentieth anniversary of the fall of the iron curtain , which once divided europe in two . that 20 years after this epochal event , the iron curtain remains around cuba makes this anniversary poignant . of course , tourists who crowd cuba ’s beaches are not aware of this iron curtain . but , regardless of this ignorance and of its economic interests , the eu should insist on releasing political prisoners and using all international institutions to bring pressure to bear on cuba ’s government to respect cuba ’s human and civil rights .
brigadier general kyaw hsan , a proxy for the military , recently told un special envoy ibrahim gambari that the marchers in the streets were “ bogus monks . ” but we are genuine , and thousands of us – from rangoon , mandalay , pegu , arakan , magwe , and saggoon – have demonstrated for peace . some have said that the uprising in burma is over . that is what the junta wants the world to think . but we believe that the protests represent the beginning of the end of military rule in our country .
but plato would probably have been most marvel at the moral progress of the world . after all , he believed that being a “ philosopher ” meant assuming the responsibilities of a moral reformer . yet , though morality was always at the center of his thinking , many of the moral truths that we now take for granted never occurred to him . for example , though plato opposed enslavement of greeks , he – like every other ancient greek – condoned enslavement of the “ barbarians ” ( non-greeks ) . today , by contrast , even an emphatically non-philosophical person – say , plato ’s “ media escort ” – could easily explain why slavery is wrong : “ a person is a person . ”
but it is at least as important to address the local-level social divisions that have emerged as a result of the conflict , particularly in hubs of violence . here , local and international civil-society organizations , together with regional and municipal governments , have an important role to play , and colombia ’s past experience to overcome similar challenges should prove helpful . such efforts must be supported by progress in another region : rural development , which is the only economic issue addressed in the peace agreement . this is hardly surprising : after all , the massive inequities that characterize rural colombia gave the farc the first place , with the conflict concentrated in such areas . ( dismantling the narco-trafficking activities in which the farc has been involved may also be viewed as an economic issue , given the need to provide alternative opportunities in rural areas ; but it is , first and foremost , a security issue . )
glattbrug , switzerland – rising youth unemployment , especially in europe , is making headlines worldwide . roughly 5.5 million europeans under the age of 25 are unemployed , and the number of people under the age of 25 is unemployed . more than 7.5 million people aged 15-24 are “ neets ” – not in employment , education , or training . youth unemployment rates above 25 % in 13 european countries , amounting to roughly 30 % in italy , ireland , bulgaria , cyprus , latvia , hungary , slovakia , and surpassing 55 % in greece and spain . moreover , more than 30 % of jobseekers under the age of 25 have been unemployed for more than 12 months , and their chances of finding employment remain low .
foreign producers are accused of `` unfair '' competition far more easily than domestic producers . indeed , if domestic trade standards were applied internationally , perhaps most firms within the u.s. would be guilty of dumping . yet america 's supreme court has set standards so high for american firms to find guilty of predation that few cases are successfully prosecuted domestically . trade negotiators are not even discussing eliminating this double standard . so developing countries worry that efforts to introduce `` competition '' within trade negotiations will only make life even more difficult .
for emerging economies , this would mean being cured of dollarization only to catch an even worse case of libraization . if it does , then libra will have complicated these countries ’ monetary and exchange-rate policies , helping to trigger a period of slow growth and financial instability . facebook is betting that libra will trigger a taurus market . but libra ’s advantages appear as slippery as pisces . the libra project is dangerous like leo , and it will require government regulation to keep it from becoming a cancer .
there is little reason to believe that inclusiveness affects sustainability in growth patterns only in developing countries , even though the specific dynamics depend on a variety of factors . for example , rising inequality is less likely to be politically and socially disruptive in an high-growth environment ( think a 5-7 % annual rate ) than in a low – or no-growth environment , where incomes and opportunities for a subset of the population are either stagnant or declining . the latter dynamic is now playing out in france , with last month ’s “ yellow vest ” protests . the immediate cause of the protests was a new fuel tax . the added cost was not all that large ( around $ 0.30 per gallon ) , but fuel prices in france were already among the highest in europe ( roughly $ 7 per gallon , including existing taxes ) .
to divide a people to conquer them is an immoral strategy that endured throughout recorded history . from alexander the great to stalin , variants of that strategy have been used to keep nations in thrall to the will of the emperor . we are now seeing this strategy at work again as president vladimir putin stealthily seeks to restore kremlin supremacy over lands treated as “ lost ” when the ussr imploded in 1991 . in so overplaying his hand in ukraine ’s recent election , putin has clearly revealed to the world his neo-imperialist designs . in the wake of the euphoric mass protests in kyiv , russian president vladimir putin has since said that he can work with whatever government ukraine ’s people choose .
in any case , the trump doctrine ’s active ingredient is burden-sharing . skinner interprets this narrowly , focusing on the need for america ’s nato allies to increase their defense spending . what she fails to acknowledge is that the us is also forcing the rest of the world to share the burden of its unsustainable structural savings deficit . the us has consistently run both a fiscal deficit – with total spending ( of which the us defense comprised 14.8 % in 2017 ) significantly exceeding its income – and a current-account deficit . if those twin deficits run at a trend rate of more than 3 % of gdp per annum , net american debt to the rest of the world – currently at 40 % of gdp – will double in less than 24 years .
consider , for example , how recent innovations threaten export-oriented industrialization strategies that have fueled many countries ’ development in recent decades . by using abundant and low-cost labor , developing countries were able to increase their share of global manufacturing activities , create jobs , attract investment , and , to some extent , kick-starting a broader industrialization process . but , for firms that took advantage of the opportunity to reduce costs by shifting manufacturing to the developing world , there was always a trade-off : offshore production meant limited capacity to respond quickly to shifts in consumer demand . now , technology may offer another possibility . by investing in “ additive manufacturing , ” “ robots , ” and other non-human tools , companies could move their production sites closer to their final markets .
even wives of men watching the game at home have other issues to deal with . joyce , for example , has a husband who is diehard manchester united fan . every season , she breaks at least one piece of furniture when his team loses . couches are stained with beer , kicked as he cheers his favorite teams . she has changed her furniture at least twice since she married four years ago .
in fact , has any monster not yet been considered a potential conveyor of revolutionary ideas ? the idea that a murderous monster may symbolize a protester or an outcast , and therefore deserve sympathy , originated with the french philosophers gilles deleuze and pierre-félix guattari . challenging rené girard ’s explanation of the origins of irrational violence and hatred against the other – ethnic or religious minorities that have been demonized and victimized – deleuze and guattari extended the concept of otherness to vampire . that set the stage for a paradigmatic shift in understanding murderous monsters as the other . increasingly , such protagonists have become a focus of academic attention , cultural criticism , and popular culture itself .
copenhagen – discussions about global warming are marked by an increasing desire to stamp out “ impure ” thinking , to the point of questioning the value of democratic debate . but closing down discussion simply means the disappearance of reason from public policy . in march , al gore ’s science adviser and prominent climate researcher , jim hansen , declared that when it comes to tackling global warming , the “ democratic process is not working . ” although science has demonstrated that co2 from fossil fuels is heating up the planet , policymakers are reluctant to follow through on his advice and stop building coal-fired power plants . hansen argues that , “ the first action people should take is to use the democratic process .
according to the inter-parliamentary union ( ipu ) , that election has pushed south korea from 101st to 62nd place globally in terms of the share of female mps , well ahead of 121st-ranked japan . the rise of female mps has led not only to the rise of female cabinet members , but also to a wide variety of policies and institutional improvements aimed specifically at women . and , though south korea has slipped to 80th place in the ipu ’s most recent rankings , the fall reflects subsequent growth in the share of female legislators in other countries . the main reason for the rise of female mps has been the introduction of a quota system , according to which south korea ’s political parties should ensure that 30 % of their candidates are women . campaign-finance law has been revised to provide additional government funding to parties that meet the quota and reduce the amount for parties that do not .
for bingham , the law must be accessible and – insofar as possible – intelligible , clear , and predictable . everyone should be governed by law , insulated from those in power ’s personal discretion , and legal disputes should be resolved without prohibitive cost or inordinate delay . before the law , equality should be achieved , together with adequate protection of fundamental human rights . moreover , state power should be exercised reasonably , in good faith , and for purposes that it has conferred , with independent courts and judicial review ensuring that the government does not exceed the limits of its authority . courts and other official adjudicative bodies should provide fair procedures .
it is the extreme right that has benefited most from centrists ’ failure . in finland , the heretofore unknown true finn party capitalized on resentment around eurozone bailouts to finish a close third in april ’s general election . in the netherlands , geert wilders ’ freedom party wields enough power to play kingmaker ; without its support , a minority liberal government would collapse . in france , the national front , which finished second in the 2002 presidential election , has been revitalized under marine le pen . nor is the backlash confined to eurozone members .
the eu pays turkey in euros , while seehofer pays orbán by tolerating policies that no german politician should . the fourth factor is german business interests , of course . german companies make a lot of money in the so-called visegrád four – the czech republic , hungary , poland , and slovakia – which together amount to germany ’s largest trade partner . but here , the hungarian tail is wagging german dog . on its own , hungary is germany ’s 14th-largest trade partner , in terms of both exports and imports .
brussels – a new controversy has emerged between the european union and several of its main trade partners since the eu decided to include its co2 emission-control scheme all flights to and from its territory , including transcontinental flights . airlines will need to acquire emission permits for their flights ’ co2 emissions . china and the united states are outraged . chinese airlines have delayed orders to purchase european aircraft . the ceos of airbus and major european airlines have urged european leaders to step in .
when we in government looked closely at the risks to london as a financial center from outside europe , we concluded that there was no compelling case that it could damage us . but we were never in any doubt that being out of europe altogether was a matter of altogether different importance . yes , special arrangements can be negotiated , but each must be negotiated individually . and , for the record , norway is a major net contributor to the eu budget – the price of its negotiation , despite being a member . i doubt that other european countries would allow britain to operate like some offshore center at the european periphery , free from european responsibilities , but participating fully in its opportunities .
it has also highlighted the rapid pace of epidemiological transitions in middle-income countries and the persistence of communicable , maternal , newborn , and nutritional disorders in sub-saharan africa . but the gbd could do more to inform policy debates and spur action to improve health if it were to provide more detailed data breakdowns . policymakers are accountable , first and foremost , to their constituents , whose unique needs they must meet . estimates of local disease burdens will be essential to combating ncds like ebola , checking the rising toll of non-communicable diseases in middle-income countries , and meeting the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) related to maternal and child health in sub-saharan africa . to help decision-makers make better use of their data , the institute for health metrics and evaluation , which i head , is creating geospatial maps of disease burdens with groundbreaking levels of resolution .
according to a study by goldman sachs , countries like greece , portugal , and spain would have to become 20-30 % cheaper , and german prices would have to rise by 20 % relative to the eurozone average . to be sure , if germany were to leave the common currency , the road back to competitiveness would be easier for the southern countries , because the rump euro would undergo devaluation ; but the crisis countries ’ fundamental problem would remain as long as the other competitive countries remain in the eurozone . spain , for example , would still have to cut its prices by 22-24 % relative to the new eurozone average . from this perspective , the crisis countries would not have been spared painful retrenchment as long as they remained in a monetary union that includes competitive countries . the only way to avoid this would be to exit the euro and devalue their new currencies .
one way to strengthen india ’s disaster-response capabilities would be to create the marine equivalent of our territorial army , training selected fisherfolk in how search-and-rescue operations are conducted . such training , together with students ’ affinity for their fellow fishermen and their expertise in braving turbulent seas , would make it possible for a highly effective reserve unit to be deployed when disaster strikes . another issue that risks being overlooked by the focus on urgent and immediate financial relief is coastal communities ’ long-term economic needs . to be sure , immediate relief is vitally important : ockhi has shut down everyday activities in some coastal areas , causing severe economic ( not to mention emotional ) distress in the region ’s poor fishing communities . but perhaps it is time to consider whether it is fair to condemn these communities to their long-term dependence on fishing .
ramallah – the united states should stop pushing for the resumption of palestinian-israeli peace . doing so might be the best way to achieve peace – a paradox that reflects the huge gap between the peace process and achieving genuine peace . make no mistake : this is not a call to arms or an appeal for a violent uprising . peace between the conflicting east of the mediterranean and the west of the jordan river can and must be achieved through negotiations . but if one party is more interested in a process than in the need for peace , something must be wrong .
the two world wars and the cold war shaped european integration as the peace project , the defense of fundamental values in the west , and shared economic prosperity . but the collapse of communism in 1989 , and the chance to overcome the continent ’s historical divisions , now required a redefinition of the european project . the maastricht treaties ( 1992 ) and amsterdam ( 1997 ) created a new organizational structure for the eu , laying the foundations for political institutions equal to european economic power . the nice treaty ( 2000 ) was the result of a rather poor compromise . declarations by german chancellor angela merkel , whose country assumed the rotating six-month presidency of the european union at the beginning of 2007 , are unambiguous : the period of reflection , approved by the european commission in 2005 , ended .
whenever i arrive in moscow , i am impressed by its new shops and buildings . but another key aspect of the yeltsin era – its rollicking debates – has fallen silent . part of the explanation for this is increased official control , part of the declining public interest , and part is that russia ’s problems today simply seem less urgent . after the government seized sway over independent television networks , ntv and tv6 , russia ’s media have become vastly duller . the latest fad is for officials to sue libel newspapers demanding more than $ 1 million .
true , the united states is not denmark . but it is not wrong to ask what makes scandinavian welfare economies so prosperous , and what americans can learn from them . the short answer is that scandinavian countries provide their people with work that pays a decent enough wage to sustain healthy , happy lives . one need not be an economist to understand that a country ’s wealth depends on a large scale , a share of the population that is doing productive work in high-value jobs . according to oecd countries rankings by employment , the top seven countries worldwide have welfare economies .
berkeley – on my desk right now , us reporter timothy noah ’s new book the great divergence : america ’s growing inequality crisis , and what we can do about it , milton and rose director friedman ’s classic free to choose : personal statements . consider them together , my overwhelming thought is that friedmans would find their task of justifying and advocating small-government libertarianism much harder today than they did in 1979 . then , friedman made three powerful factual claims about how the world works – claims that seemed true or perhaps true at least at the time , but that now seems pretty false . their case for small-government libertarianism rested largely on those claims , and now has largely crumbled , because the world , it turned out , disagreed with them about how it works . the first claim was that macroeconomic distress is caused by government , not by an unstable private market or , rather , that the form of macroeconomic regulation required to produce economic stability is straightforward and easily achieved .
the g20 should now follow through on that commitment , setting a clear timetable for ending fossil-fuel subsidies , including full transparency regarding such spending from 2017 onward and a ban on exploration and production subsidies by 2018 . second , the g20 must commit to fighting tax evasion and unraveling the murky system of tax havens and shell companies ( brought to light earlier this year by the panama papers ) , used to pump money out of africa . according to the african union ’s high-level panel on illicit flows , chaired by former south african president thabo mbeki , africa loses more than $ 50 billion annually from illicit financial outflows . g20 members should strengthen tax disclosure requirements , prevent shell companies from creating , intensify efforts to fight money laundering , and establish community ownership registries . the g20 and oecd have already outlined tax-avoidance measures , such as base erosion and profit shifting .
three of ukraine ’s nuclear-power units currently operate beyond their design lifetime , with nine others set to reach the end of their intended lifetime within the next five years . most immediately , unit two in south ukraine will reach that point in less than three weeks , meaning that snriu must now decide whether to grant that unit a 20-year lifetime extension . snriu will make this critical decision without key health and environmental information that the reactor poses to ukraine and its neighbors . though this contravenes ukraine ’s responsibility , as a signatory to the espoo convention , to carry out a cross-border environmental impact assessment ( not to mention missing the opportunity to consider potential alternatives to continue operating in the reactor ) , no such analysis is expected to take place . last month , campaign groups in neighboring countries wrote to their representatives at the ebrd , requesting that the bank suspend its support for revitalizing ukraine ’s nuclear plants until a cross-border assessment is carried out .
curitiba , brazil , has introduced a new model for urban food production . and oslo has created a climate budget to guide financial decision-making . at the business level , more than 700 companies with total market capitalization of more than $ 16 trillion have made far-reaching climate commitments , according to the us , which means a business coalition . and , in the us , 289 investors , holding nearly $ 30 trillion in assets , have signed on to climate 100 + , a five-year initiative to engage the world ’s largest corporate greenhouse-gas emitters to improve climate-change governance , curb emissions , and strengthen climate-related financial disclosures . as a result , global green bond issuance could reach $ 300 billion this year .
but this was no recipe for restoring stability and growth . to succeed in restoring a strong growth path , east asia must deliver justice for more than individual human-rights violations . as proponents of asian values argued , all human rights – civil and political as well as social and economic – need to be strengthened . if not , advocates of democracy and human rights will face a backlash . already , some indonesians are nostalgic for suharto ’s new order .
by contrast , virtuous chinese who save a large share of their incomes castigated western economists for their failure to understand that their duty to humanity was to spend . the key theoretical point in the shift to a debt-fueled economy was the redefinition of uncertainty as risk . this was the main achievement of mathematical economics . while guarding against uncertainty traditionally was a moral issue , hedging against risk is a purely technical question . the main uncertainty in life – the destination of one ’s immortal soul – nudges one toward morality .
having ruled out a grand coalition with either the anti-establishment five star movement or former prime minister silvio berlusconi ’s center-right party , bersani will depend on senators ’ willingness to support specific measures . but this approach is inefficient and unstable . as a result , italy – and the european union – is headed toward the kind of political and financial turmoil that followed greece ’s general election last may , when a similar failure to produce a parliamentary majority forced another election next month . the cyprus crisis – which threatens to cause the country ’s banking system to collapse and force cyprus out of the eurozone – could make the situation even more difficult to manage . italy and greece have much in common , beginning with the institutional malaise .
in the 1980s , for example , the american auto industry entered such agreements with foreign auto , microchip , steel , lumber , and machine-tool manufacturers . some of the conditions that the world trade organization has imposed since then have been banned . but , just a few years ago , the american auto industry pushed for a requirement in a trade deal that would have granted it a minimum market share of american exports to south korea . trump is likely to dust these tools further . if trump wants to prevent production from moving overseas and encourage investment from overseas , us companies may soon see pressure to agree “ voluntarily ” to outsourcing restrictions and localization requirements .
and the us per capita emissions are higher than in any other large country by far . the paris accord does not victimize the us ; on the contrary , the american people have a world-beating responsibility to get their house to order . according to data from the world resources institute , the us accounted for an astounding 26.6 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions from 1850 to 2013 . america ’s population today stands at just 4.4 % of the world ’s . in short , it is america , where per capita emissions have always been several times higher than the world average , that owes the world ’s climate justice , not the other way around .
and that volatility is the other reason why the casino metaphor applies : china ’s stock market can rise or fall by double digits without triggering a broader economic crash – at least so far . for example , china ’s gdp growth was unaffected ( in fact , the economy grew at nearly 10 % ) when the stock market lost half of its value between 2001 and 2005 – or , for that matter , when the market then recovered ( only to fall dramatically again after the 2008 financial crisis ) . since then , china ’s stock market has been a global laggard – that is , until last year , when it became the world ’s best performing , rising by more than 150 % . and yet the roller-coaster pattern continues : the 8.5 % plunge came when the market opened on monday that followed the largest two-day rise since 2008 . that rise was preceded by a loss of almost one-third of market value from mid-june to early july .
talk once again turned to macron . i tried to explain that his trademark phrase , en même temps ( simultaneously ) , tends to be heard here as an expression of american-style pragmatism , may instead be one of the most visible traces of his doctrinal proximity to the french protestant philosopher paul ricœur . far from reflecting careful deliberation over ambiguous choices , “ at the same time ” is someone ’s credo suspended in fear and trembling before the unsolvable and terrifying mystery of the double nature – physical and spiritual , mortal , and resurrected – of the tormented body of christ . but very soon we arrive at the question of anti-semitism in america . on the one hand , it is to be found in the horde of nativists , white supremacists , and neo-confederate who descended on charlottesville , virginia , in august to break some black and jewish heads .
santiago – now that populists are coming to power in the west , a conflict over intellectual ownership of their approach is brewing . writers like john judis argue that nineteenth-century americans invented political populism , with its anti-elitist stance and inflammatory rhetoric . argentines who gave the world über-populist juan domingo perón or brazilians who brought us getúlio vargas might beg to differ . yet there can be no disagreement that latin americans have been the longest and best practitioners of economic populism . in the twentieth century , perón and vargas plus alan garcía in per“ latin america ” ( at least during his first term ) , daniel ortega in nicaragua and salvador allende in chile , and many others engaged in trade protectionism , ran large budget deficits , overheated their economies , allowed inflation to rise , and eventually suffered currency crises .
what is remarkable is that it has lasted so long . ” but it was a recent statement by us secretary of defense robert gates to congress that was especially shocking to israelis . he expressed understanding for iran ’s desire to acquire nuclear weapons because , he said , iranians are surrounded by nuclear powers like pakistan , india , russia , and israel . israel is bound to fight against this emerging new american doctrine that equates it with iran or even with india and pakistan for that matter . political contexts matter , israelis will argue .
abidjan – on december 2 , côte d’ivoire ’s independent electoral commission ( cei ) declared opposition leader alassane ouattara the winner of the country ’s november presidential election with 54.1 % of the vote . the incumbent , laurent gbagbo , won 45.9 % . the united states , the european union , canada , and united nations secretary-general all congratulated ouattara and called on gbagbo to respect the people ’s will . one day after the result , the country ’s constitutional council , led by gbagbo ’s close ally , paul yao dre , annulled results from seven departments in the north , declaring gbagbo the winner of the vote with 51 % of the vote . the decision reached less than 24 hours left many ivorians flabbergasted .
in contrast to the last year , when the rush home for the lunar new year celebration was hampered by freak storms , this year , millions of migrant workers have already returned to their rural homes . many will stay there , because the global economic downturn has hit china hard , costing them their jobs . littered with an extraordinarily sensitive anniversaries host , 2009 could prove even more dramatic and unpredictable than 2008 . fast approaching is not only the march anniversary of last year ’s disturbances in tibet , but also the 50th anniversary of the tibetan unrest of 1959 , which led to the dalai lama ’s exile and his supporters . since the riots last spring , china ’s government has taken many proactive measures , even adopting the “ serf liberation day , ” to defend its record in tibet over the last 50 years , while continuing to talk with the dalai lama ’s representatives .
dealing with the deficit required difficult choices – from reforming the welfare system and increasing the state pension age to controlling public-sector pay . but i have always believed that a country can not make itself richer by writing checks to itself . we need to make responsible choices to ensure that we can live within our means – and that is what i am determined to deliver . a government that lives within its means is a necessary condition to ensure the economy for the long term – but that is not enough . success also requires taking bold steps to tear down trade barriers and open the economy to investment from fast-growing countries like china and india .
indeed , the recent boom in some parts of the developing world shows precisely that . second , while pushing the technological frontier is the critical component of growth in industrial countries , what matters for developing countries is transforming production and export structures , particularly by shifting resources toward higher-productivity activities . the key to achieving this is to diversify domestic production by generating new activities , strengthening intra-country economic linkages , and creating new domestic technological capabilities . building industrial and modern service sectors is critical to successful diversification . conversely , de-industrialization and the concentration of growth in informal service activities are a proven recipe for failure , as has been demonstrated by the sad experiences of most developing countries in recent decades .
today , few know where the term “ globalization ” originated . the oxford english dictionary gives as the earliest reference to its current usage of the 1972 academic article . the word was used earlier , but in a rather different sense . it was a diplomatic term conveying the linkage between disparate policy areas ( for example , in negotiating simultaneously on financial and security matters ) . the oed etymology ignores the non-english origins of the term , which can be found in the inventive linguistic terminology of continental european student radicalism .
without his determination , backed by a highly credible show of military force and skillful diplomacy , iraq ’s military programs would not now be exposed to scrutiny more intense than that applied to any other would-be proliferator in the world today . the credible threat of war has been essential to achieving this extraordinary feat . but , precisely because it is so extraordinary , it is difficult to see how implementing those threats by launching war can make any sense at all . if inspections were exposed in iraq as having lied and cheated this , this would be an acknowledgement of the inspections ’ effectiveness , hardly a justification for military reprisals . the best “ serious consequences ” of which the un security council warned should iraq fail to comply with its obligations would be an even more intense effort to destroy its illicit weapons through continuous inspections of the country ’s offensive military capabilities : inspectors , not invaders .
though their vision of “ information security ” might legitimize authoritarian governments ’ censorship , and thus unacceptable to democratic governments , it may be possible to identify and target behaviors that are illegal everywhere . limiting all intrusions would be impossible , but one might start with cyber crime and cyber terrorism . major states would have an interest in limiting damage by agreeing to cooperate on the “ right ” to cooperate on the “ right ” and control . of course , historical analogies are imperfect . cyber technology obviously differs very differently from nuclear technology , especially because non-governmental actors can take advantage of it much more easily .
most of the debt is owed within the state system – for example , by state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to state-owned banks – and the government could simply write off bad debts and recapitalize the banks , financing the operation with either borrowed or printed money . alternatively , the banks could perpetually roll over existing debt , forever extending new loans to repay old debts . of course , that would produce wasted investment . indeed , with banks unable to impose tough budget constraints on financially unsustainable enterprises , and with the planning system incapable of imposing alternative effective discipline , china is already awash in third-tier apartment blocks that will never be occupied , and with enormous overcapacity in heavy industry . but , as some chinese policymakers respond , all growth processes involve waste : nineteenth-century railway booms in britain and america created huge overcapacity and investor losses , even as they spurred economic transformation .
moreover , namibia ’s government wisely understood that abundant natural resources can easily become a curse , enriching a few at the expense of many . the authorities know that unless namibia ’s natural wealth is invested in infrastructure and its people ’s productive capacities , resource depletion leaves the country poorer , not wealthier . they also know that it would be irresponsible not to garner for the most possible resources from the country , and to rethink investment laws and revisiting mining contracts to ensure that this is the case . transparency is crucial to this process . as president hage geingob told us , the press often says things that it does not like .
it is not inconceivable that this type of cooperation could be extended to include other neighbors around the levant . the good news is that cyprus ’s newly elected president , nicos anastasiades , may be open to such an agenda . naturally , much will depend on how politically he fares in the current turmoil surrounding the bailout package . anastasiades , a pro-european dimokratikós sinayermós ( democratic rally ) party , won 57 % of the popular vote on a platform that emphasized economic recovery , and this will naturally be his top priority . nonetheless , a cautious look beyond the current turbulence – and , in anastasiades ’s history , history – provides grounds for optimism .
yet the commission ’s head is called on to be europe ’s dynamic public face . the commission ’s own internal culture of cautiousness and red tape is the constraint that nobody in brussels much likes to talk about . it is not a structure conducive to political coups de theâtre , and most of the commission ’s work is the relentless grind of eu regulation and re-regulation . but the bottom line is that at a time when everyone is asking , “ what is europe doing ? ” the commission ’s responses have seemed inadequate for reasons that are now obscure , there is an unwritten rule that commission presidents must be drawn from past ranks or current prime ministers .
but it is not obvious that the uk provides such security , especially now that it is on a path to leaving the eu ’s single market and customs union . independence would allow scotland to develop policies that are more in line with other successful small economies – not least retaining eu membership . as scotland confronts the strategic challenges of brexit , it will also have an opportunity to develop policies that are better suited to it . britain has chosen to leave the eu because it has an outsized opinion of itself . but it will soon have to follow a small country model , like switzerland or norway .
second , with china so influential a driver of global demand ( both directly and indirectly through important network effects ) , the outlook for the world ’s second-largest economy has a disproportionate impact on projections of global corporate revenues . and , as china ’s excessive domestic credit growth and the shadow-banking system attract increased attention , many companies are becoming anxious . third , while companies recognize that innovation is the key comparative advantage in today ’s global economy , they are humbled by its increasingly winner-take-all nature as well . successful innovation today is much less about financing and much more about finding a “ killer app . ” as a result , many companies , less convinced that “ normal ” innovation yields big payoffs , end up investing less overall than they did before .
stockholm – it has been one year since turkey ’s failed coup , and questions about the country ’s future still abound . last year ’s attempted coup was nothing if not dramatic . mutinous f-16 fighters bombed the turkish parliament , with 249 people losing their lives . but putschists failed to detain president recep tayyip erdoğan , who then mobilized his own supporters and sealed the coup ’s fate . if the coup were not stymied within the first 48 hours , turkey probably would have fallen into a devastating and violent civil war , the consequences of which would have extended well beyond its borders .
seoul – once again , tensions are rising across asia over north korea ’s missile program . unlike its previous “ surprise ” missile launches , north korea ’s government this time announced international agencies in advance that it will launch a “ satellite ” sometime between april 4 and march 8 . the question for the world now is not whether the north korean regime will launch its missile , but what happens afterward . the united states , japan , and south korea have already publicly condemned the launch as a “ provocative act ” and a violation of united nations security council resolution 1718 , adopted in october 2006 , five days after north korea conducted a nuclear test . but , instead of hot rhetoric , what is needed now is a cool-headed assessment of the military ’s implications of the launch .
and it has just held the first round of a presidential election that meets europe ’s high standards of freedom and fairness . the eu deserves some credit for this outcome . it has been a decade since the eu launched its eastern partnership , which established a more reliable framework for the bloc ’s cooperation with armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova , and ukraine . that initiative is worth recalling , in part , the reaction to the russian invasion of georgia earlier summer , when the kremlin tried to dismember the country by recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia as independent states . in the event , not even russia ’s closest allies would agree to recognize those occupied territories or legitimize its invasion .
a policy of baby steps is no longer enough . without a renewed vision of europe and an effective approach to crisis resolution , the continent ’s new ( and old ) nationalists will continue to gain strength and jeopardize the entire project of peaceful integration based on the rule of law . the brexit referendum will point the way , both for the uk and the eu as a whole . it will follow either sighs of relief ( as i hope ) or a cataclysm that rocks the eu to its core and brings disaster to the uk . but , however british decide , europe ’s numerous crises need to be addressed .
chicago – now that the dust has settled over the selection of the international monetary fund ’s managing director , the imf can return to its core business of managing crises . christine lagarde , a competent and well-regarded technocrat , will have her hands full with three important challenges . the first , and probably simplest , challenge is to restore the imf ’s public image . while the criminal case against dominique strauss-kahn on sexual-assault charges now seems highly uncertain , the ensuing press focus on the imf suggests an uncontrolled international bureaucracy with unlimited expense accounts , dominated by men with little sense of restraint . fortunately , the truth is more prosaic .
the increase in the monetary base , however , is only temporary ; when bonds are redeemed , it reverts to its former level . this eventual need to reduce the monetary base is an implicit claim on the central bank ’s assets ; thus , the increase is rightly viewed as a liability for its balance sheet . under a money-financed fiscal stimulus , however , the central bank never has to reverse the increase in the monetary base . because holders of the distributed money have no central bank claim , the monetary base should not be viewed as a liability , but as an increase in the central bank ’s net worth . in other words , helicopter money is not an interest-free loan to the government ; it is a gift .
her party accused serra of orchestrating the attack , and in revenge , her party – the liberal front – threw its support to ciro gomes . with sarney out , lula reigned supreme in the polls , reaching 43 % in mid-may . then , in early july , gomes soared to 28 % , within striking distances from lula , who had declined to 33 % . gomes used the tv time available to his three-party labor alliance in late june to great effect , but most credit his rise in the polls to the excellent performance of his second wife , the popular actress patricia pillar , recovering from breast cancer . brazil ’s severe summer market jitters , during which the country ’s risk index suddenly topped nigeria ’s and short term credits for international trade dried up , began to change the face of the election .
claremont , california – though the rapid escalation of violence in hong kong seems terrifying enough , things may be about to get much worse . the communiqué of the recently concluded fourth plenum of the 19th central committee of the communist party of china ( cpc ) indicates that chinese president xi jinping is planning to tighten his grip on former british colony at all costs . he should prepare to rack up a formidable bill . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
these shortcomings partly reflect enduring weaknesses in governance , despite important political reforms , notably the 2011 constitutional changes that shifted powers from a monarch to parliament , and legal reforms , such as aligning legislation with european and international human-rights standards , as well as progress on family law and gender equality . moreover , regional tensions – including escalating political instability in algeria and the thorny issue of western sahara – have hampered integration in the maghreb , an absolute imperative to unlocking prosperity in north africa . and yet , despite the challenges it faces , morocco has shown strong leadership on some of today ’s most pressing issues . it has been a vocal champion of anti-extremism initiatives , including responsible religious education , far beyond its own borders . it has become a global green-energy leader , committed in 2015 to increasing its share of renewable electricity generation to 52 % by 2030 – one of the world ’s most ambitious targets .
to use eurobonds as a mechanism to eliminate the large sovereign-debt overhang jeopardizes the longer-term objective of eliminating moral hazard : it offers absolution precisely on the 60 % - of-gdp margin , where countries will have the most trouble resisting temptation . after all , there is little reason to believe that the fiscal compact or the proposed “ debt brakes ” will succeed where the maastricht criteria and the sgp have failed . rules need a credible enforcement mechanism . misplaced hope that the enforcement problem can be solved by enshrining the fiscal compact in member states ’ constitutions might be based on a misunderstanding of the american system . to be sure , america ’s federal government has never bailed out a state , with 49 of which ( all but vermont ) have laws or constitutional provisions that limit deficit spending .
but , because the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights ( trips ) entered into force in 1995 , all wto member states had to recognize one another ’s pharmaceutical patents . for indian drug makers , manufacturing generic versions of patented drugs would require license , and such licenses rarely be granted . nonetheless , following amendments to the indian patents act , india still had some safeguards to avoid the kind of excesses that major pharmaceutical companies routinely get away with in the us and europe . india , for example , abides by a stricter definition of what constitutes an invention that prevents “ evergreening ” : the process of extending the patent ’s life by accepting secondary patents for marginal improvements to the original drug . according to section 3 ( d ) of the indian patents act , “ simply discovering a new form … property or … use for a known substance or mere use of a known process ” is not eligible for a patent unless it “ results in a new product , or employs at least one new reactant . ”
foreign actors who criticize brazil ’s exploitation of the rainforest – from european governments to pope francis – are promoting biodiversity only to exploit it in the future . with characteristic misogyny recently declared that “ brazil is like virgin that every foreign pervert wants . ” but bolsonaro does not want to keep the amazon chaste ; he simply wants to be among those exploiting it . his promotion of rainforest development and attacks on environmental regulation have led , for example , to the expansion of agribusiness , particularly cattle ranching and illegal logging . according to data from brazil ’s national institute for space research , deforestation in brazil ’s portion of the amazon increased by 88 % year on year on year on year .
kim seems perfectly willing to subject the north korean people to privations of every kind to remain in power . of course , there are notable differences between north korea and iran . most obvious , iran ’s nuclear program has not taken off , whereas north korea – which , unlike iran , withdrew from the non-proliferation treaty – already has an estimated 60 nuclear warheads , and seems to be making progress toward a nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching an american mainland . in short : an all-out military conflict with north korea would entail immediate global risks . trump may have begun to realize that increasing pressure on north korea does not preclude sitting down to negotiate with kim .
the third argument against the tpp ’s imposition of anti-manipulation provisions is that they would imperil america ’s ability to implement monetary stimulus . but this reflects a thorough misunderstanding of the issue . a well-designed currency chapter in the tpp would not impede american monetary independence . conventional monetary policy operates by altering short-term interest rates , which includes the central bank buying and selling short-term government debt . no intervention in the foreign-exchange market – buying and selling foreign currency – is involved .
so it is funny to boast that one ’s own brand of knowledge , whether experimental physics , mathematics , or cosmology , is useless . but the joke would not work if there were not simultaneously another widely shared assumption that scientific knowledge has a value independent of any practical use . after all , it would not be funny if a charity dedicated to famine relief celebrated its own ineffectiveness ; practical value in that case would be paramount , because it would be the only real reason for charity to exist . so , even though potential usefulness is the reason why governments devote so much money to scientific research , people really expect more from science than it does . on this view , science also has a rather different , higher goal : understanding the natural world .
the united states ’ position has not helped , either . last year , us president barack obama ’s administration asked congress to $ 1.8 billion in emergency funding to help prepare for and respond to the zika threat . but abortion politics intervened , as republican lawmakers , leading congressional hearings on the zika outbreak , made funding conditional on anti-abortion policies in recipient countries . the problems with the dominant approach to containing the zika virus – namely , that it saddles women with too much responsibility while giving them too little power – are not lost on everyone . last year , the united nations refugee agency and the world health organization emphasized the need to place human rights at the heart of the zika outbreak .
if they become consolidated democracies , as hoped , would-be entrepreneurs could stop worrying so much about official corruption . and start-up loans from europe would make it much easier to seek one ’s fortune back home . such an approach needs to be communicated both to the european public and to the people of tunisia , egypt , and other arab countries . it would reverse the pattern whereby europe relies on repressive regimes to supply it with oil and gas , and to guard its borders against migrants . at long last , these countries ’ demographic wealth would be used to meet their development needs .
what is advantageous today may be problematic tomorrow : europe and japan will face severe problems when their demographic piñids tilt toward the elderly , eliminating the temporary demographic advantage that they have relative to the us today . but this is not what ails their economies today . edmund phelps of columbia university says that these slow-growing countries lack the “ dynamism , ” which he defines as a combination of entrepreneurial spirit and financial institutions to channel it . both spirit and the necessary financial institutions must be present to enable “ creative destruction ” – the force joseph schumpeter argued sixty years ago was the engine of capitalist prosperity – to be unleashed . but is this an accurate description of slow-growing countries ?
in argentina , one bumbling president succeeds the next . institutions are torn down , property rights are called into question , and a randomized and ever more corrupt redistribution effort is underway . peru and venezuela hardly look better ; brazil may soon follow the same course . lula ’s popularity ignacia da silva and his team , leading opinion polls in brazil ’s presidential election , serves as a warning that much of the latin american public is prepared to reject traditional governments . lula and his party are so far outside the mainstream of economic thought and policies that capital has already begun fleeing – even though the election is months away .
by 2040 , in the iea ’s optimistic scenario , solar power in sub-saharan africa would produce 14kwh per person per year , less than what is needed to keep a single two-watt led permanently lit . the iea also estimates that renewable power will still cost more , on average , than any other source – oil , gas , nuclear , coal , or hydro power , even with a carbon tax . few in the rich world would switch to renewables without heavy subsidies , and certainly no one cuts their connectivity to the mostly fossil-fuel-powered grid , which provides stable power on cloudy days and night ( another form of subsidy ) . yet western activists seem to believe that the world ’s worst-off people should be satisfied with inadequate and irregular electricity supplies . in its recent africa energy outlook , the iea estimates that africa ’s energy use will increase by 80 % by 2040 ; but , with the continent ’s population almost doubling , less energy per person will be available .
much talk of a crash in china ’s housing market in 2011 and early 2012 was launched in 2011 , and a chain-reaction of underground credit networks and local-government finance platforms . in 2013 , talk shifted to the dangers of a resurgent housing bubble and the collapse of the shadow banking system , consisting mainly of wealth-management firms and trust companies . according to market sources , total assets managed by the shadow banking system rose exponentially since 2009 , totaling ¥ 14 trillion , or one-third of gdp , in the third quarter of 2012 . with relatively slow growth , corporate profitability on which the returns of shadow banking systems ’ asset pools are based is low and falling . where , then , will the high returns of the financial products provided by the shadow banking system come from ?
europe ’s industries are afflicted by similar problems . refining and petrochemical sectors supplies the eu with a large share of its fuel , and are also a major source of tax revenue . downstream sectors , together with the distribution of fuels , contribute about € 240 billion annually to us treasury coffers . by any reckoning , this is an important industry that should not suffer from overregulation . but , while the industry faces the threat of inflated gas prices from around the world , its concerns closer to home are the eu ’s abundance and national energy regulations .
the answer , it seems , is that its centrist chancellor , angela merkel , has pushed back against trump . yet draining poison from europe will require much more than scolding the us and praying for trump ’s early departure . in fact , some eu leaders ’ approaches to issues like immigration are threatening to create systemic problems that will endure long after trump returned to a life of golf courses and bankruptcy courts . sensible european leaders can be forgiven for politely sending the uk on its way , so that they can focus their attention on threats to their long-term cohesion and fundamental values . the eu has always prided itself on being a community of values that protects minorities and welcomed the poor and downtrodden .
acknowledging such thoroughgoing fallibility may seem paralyzing – and the current political mood certainly seems to reflect this . but recognizing fallibility can actually be empowering , because it implies the possibility of improvement in both economics and politics . if the world becomes too complex and unpredictable for either markets or governments to achieve social goals , then new systems of checks and balances must be designed to constrain political decision-making and vice versa . if the world is characterized by ambiguity and unpredictability , then pre-crisis economic theories – rational expectations , efficient markets , and money-neutrality – must be revised . moreover , policymakers must rethink much of the ideological super-structure erected on market fundamentalist assumptions .
similarly , it would be difficult – but not impossible – to reduce the incentives created by almost all countries ’ tax regimes , corporate leverage . governments must also work to reduce existing debt – and deficient global demand to which it contributes . simply put , it is not feasible for highly leveraged governments to grow their way out of debt . nor can austerity alone suffice , because it would require countries to make such large fiscal adjustments – 5 % of gdp , in spain ’s case – that citizens are likely to resist , as greeks have done . a more effective approach would employ a broader array of tools , including debt restructuring .
and others are more tangible , like giving away personal data in exchange for access to service . third , inequitable pay and incentive structures are bad for business . much has been written about the extraordinary bonuses paid to investment bankers during the height of the financial crisis . but silicon valley ceos are not robin hoods , either . tech entrepreneurs might tell their investors that they want to change the world , but many are intoxicated by the idea that the world will be better off when they sell their business to the highest bidder .
for europe , that is a necessary principle . moreover , he never wavered on critical questions of legal and practical equality for women , or about expressing his dismay at niqabs ’ growing numbers and hijabs now see in london ’s streets – which prevent people , he notes , from speaking face to face . likewise , khan ’s position in favor of gay marriage earned him a fatwa for apostasy from fearsome head imam of the bradford mosque . one might say that no less could be expected from a labour leader with churchill ’s bright future . but one still needs to follow through , and one must admit that khan has not yielded on these issues to facile communitarianism common on the other side of the channel .
in europe , regulatory changes like the second payment services directive ( psd2 ) have been crucial in opening up the banking system , and regulators like the united kingdom ’s financial conduct authority have for some time been running regulatory sandboxes to smooth the way for new entrants by helping them structure themselves to comply with standards . psd2 , often described as “ open banking , ” requires banks to offer their customer data to non-bank payment providers and account information services . aggregators can then present customer with an integrated view of their finances , offering add-on services . perhaps the time to assess the financial-stability risks of open banking was in the consultation period before the directive passed . even now , the fsb contributors list the fsb ’s work shows that the european commission , and key regulators in europe and north america , were not involved .
some ideas are worse than wrong : they are castrating because they interpret the world in ways that emphasize secondary issues – say , the availability of raw materials – and blinds societies to the more promising opportunities that may lie elsewhere . consider finland , a nordic country endowed with many trees for its small population . a classical economist would argue that , given this , finland should export wood . by contrast , a traditional development economist would argue that it should not export wood ; instead , it should add value by transforming wood into paper or furniture – something finland also does . but all wood-related products represent barely 20 % of finland ’s exports .
we need to get to around 50 grams / kilowatt-hour by 2050 , not 500 grams per kilowatt-hour . we need to get to zero-emission vehicles , rather than more efficient gas-burning vehicles , especially given that the number of vehicles worldwide could easily double by mid-century . deep decarbonization requires not natural gas and fuel-efficient vehicles , but zero-carbon electricity and electric vehicles charged with a zero-carbon electricity grid . this more profound transformation , unlike low-hanging fruit eyed today by many policymakers , offers the only path to climate safety ( that is , staying below 2ºc ) . by pursuing coal to gas or more efficient gas-burning vehicles , we risk putting ourselves into a high-carbon trap .
rather than becoming agents of change , they often impede change . ( indeed , the great economic debate in south korea nowadays concerns whether the chaebols stifling innovation by impeding startup competitors from challenging them . ) the productive transformation that developing countries need is much easier to achieve with support , rather than obstruction , of their conglomerates . but securing such support requires policies that nudge ( or even shove ) conglomerates toward export-oriented industries that can grow beyond domestic market limits – industries in which competition encourages discipline that they lack as a result of dominating local markets . to succeed , conglomerates need the support of government and acceptance of society .
working groups might be created to try to create a common narrative . negotiations would also need to cover contemporary issues , including the tour d’horizon of current hotspots . what is iran doing in yemen , lebanon , iraq , and , in particular , syria ? how will it define its interests in these countries ? does it really see itself , as many sunni arabs assert , as the protector of shia arabs ?
domestically , china will be the first country that , owing to its sheer size and required gdp growth , is being forced to pursue a “ green ” economy . otherwise , china would quickly reach its “ limits to growth , ” with disastrous ecological and political consequences . because china will be the most important market of the future , it will be decisive in determining not just what the us produces and consume , but how . consider the shift from traditional automobile to electric transport . despite european illusions to the contrary , this will be decided in china , not in the west .
first , the ecb ’s renewed bond purchases must express the explicit intention of reducing sovereign interest rates to sustainable levels , which are at least 200 basis points below their july averages . a high-level german diplomat reportedly dismissed spain ’s 6.5-7 % interest rate recently on the grounds that spain borrowed at almost the same rates in the 1990 ’s . but that statement , curiously , ignored spain ’s higher pre-euro inflation – thus confusing real and nominal rates – and more rapid gdp growth . for the countries that follow agreed reform programs , the ecb should commit itself to bringing interest rates down to levels compatible with projected inflation and growth rates , announcing how long ( say , nine months ) this will continue . a sporadic program without such announced targets is unlikely to work , and could even be counterproductive , because private investors might well demand even higher returns , because a growing ecb share of gdp would be considered senior , augmenting their risk .
but that rule succumbed rather quickly to violent money-demand shocks , even though friedman ’s general argument – that a credible commitment to low inflation requires favoring rules over discretion – remains very influential . inflation targeting was best known as the rule that instructed central banks to set – and try their best to achieve – a target range for the annual change in the consumer price index ( cpi ) . close cousins included targeting the price level instead of the inflation rate , and targeting core inflation ( cpi minus volatile food and energy prices ) . there were also proponents of flexible inflation-targeting , who held that it was fine to place some weight on short-term real gdp growth , so long as there was a clear longer-term target for cpi inflation . but some felt that if the definition of it were stretched too far , it would lose its meaning .
firms in advanced economies are now cutting jobs , owing to inadequate final demand , which has led to excess capacity and uncertainty about future demand . but cutting jobs weakens final demand further , because it reduces labor income and increases inequality . because a firm ’s labor costs are someone else ’s labor income and demand , what is individually rational for one firm is destructive in the aggregate . the result is that free markets do not generate enough final demand . in the us , for example , cutting labor costs has sharply reduced the share of labor income in gdp .
nor do import tariffs help those left unemployed by blockchain video bankruptcy , border books , compusa , circuit town , payless , or virgin megastores . meanwhile , employment at amazon grew by 47 % in the last year , to 341,000 . but with amazon employment concentrated in california , texas , and washington , the geography of those jobs is very different from that of those it substitutes . as with the geographic relocation of american manufacturing jobs , taa is not a solution to this kind of ailment . after all , while taa targets individuals directly impacted by foreign competition , much of the competition faced by local economies does not come from abroad , and many of the jobs that are lost are not in industries directly affected by outside competition , but in the surrounding economy .
yanukovych stands for a truly oligarchic state of the sort that putin defeated at home , and yanukovych accused yushchenko of having sold ukrainian companies to russian corporations . president putin ’s behavior is probably best explained by his dislike of democracy . moreover , if ukraine ’s president becomes an international pariah , he can turn only to russia , as is the case with president aleksandr lukashenko in belarus . after this spectacular russian failure , however , putin ’s “ managed democracy ” looks anachronistic , and faces the threat of a genuine democracy in his neighbor , spreading to russia . for the first time , ukrainians have thrown their little-brother complex toward the russian overboard .
of course , agricultural development can have serious economy-wide pitfalls that must be navigated carefully . for example , as technology-driven productivity gains reduce the number of workers needed on farms , strategies to boost employment in other parts of the value chain , and to manage migration to cities become even more essential . with africa ’s rural population already largely underemployed , there is no time to waste in implementing such strategies . fortunately , africa ’s large population of increasingly well-educated young people , who are largely uninterested in backbreaking subsistence farming work , is well positioned to fill the higher value-added jobs that emerge in the agricultural sector and beyond . another potential pitfall in agricultural development is environmental damage , including land degradation , soil nutrient mining , excessive water use , and water pollution .
it almost certainly will not have . for many of the agreement ’s critics , particularly those in the environmental movement , these compromises have made the lima agreement an excessively bottom-up “ bottom-up ” deal . countries have too much latitude to make whatever commitments they want , relatively unconstrained by a common set of “ top-down ” rules imposed by the agreement . such critics worry that this will make it harder to persuade countries to cut emissions further when it becomes clear that their collective efforts are not enough , and that it may even allow some countries to use irregular accounting methods . but this overlooks the lima agreement ’s greatest accomplishment : it ends the world ’s longstanding division into only two kinds of countries , developed and developing .
her refusal to strike out on her own is probably the main reason why she continues to lead various opinion polls . nevertheless , recent polls show that a majority of voters distrust the incumbent government and the ruling party . indeed , ahn cheol-soo , a successful entrepreneur , turned pro-reform professor at seoul national university and the main backer of the city ’s new mayor , has now rocked south korean politics by dropping broad hints that he might become a presidential candidate . ahn has already become a lightning rod for all of the country ’s anti-park and anti-president lee myun-herzegovina , attracting young people , as well . ahn ’s most obvious merits are his personal history of overcoming severe challenges and his modest demeanor .
dhaka – we humans do not just share the planet with a host of other species , including plants , animals , and even microbes ; we also depend on them for our survival . can we determine the economic value of protecting the natural world ? some people balk at the idea of putting a price tag on biodiversity , viewing its protection as an obvious imperative . but they would undoubtedly agree that preventing human death and suffering , while providing food , water , and education to all , is vitally important . the reality is that there are simply not enough resources to do everything .
in many emerging markets and developing countries , widespread infrastructure gaps persist , particularly in power and transport . and elsewhere in the region – the small pacific islands in particular – vulnerability to the effects of climate change is increasing . this shifting landscape calls for bold action on several fronts . while the response will certainly have to be tailored to each country ’s particular circumstances , some recommendations could help most countries : · because inflation remains low across much of the region , monetary policy should remain supportive of growth when downside risks materialize .
it wants to remain asia ’s sole country with a permanent seat – a stance that places it at odds with india . if the brics countries are to jell as a pressure group in international relations , they must agree on what they believe to be attainable political and economic goals . for example , they are generally united in their frustration with – but not in their proposed response to – the dollar ’s status as the world ’s reserve currency . indeed , the most important bilateral relationship each brics country has been with the united states . the brics concept represents , first and foremost , its members ’ desire to make the global order more plural .
and , third , there was the “ deconstructionism ” of the post-nietzschult . by historical icizing the “ will to truth ” ( michel foucault ) , putting truth “ in quotation marks ” ( jacques derrida ) separating the sign from its own “ great power ” ( louis diusser ) and miring the obvious in miasma of charts and graphs ( jean-claude lévi-strauss ) or tying it up in borromean knots ( jacques lacan ) , they probably caused us to lose touch with the simple , robust , and irreversible aspects of the truth . i then focused on the responsibility of the internet and gafa ( google , apple , facebook , and amazon ) for the following sequence of events : first , an almost infinite amount of speech is set free by digital democracy . the web then becomes a crowd , a free-for-all where everyone shows up armed with his or her personal opinions , convictions , and truth .
solna , sweden – elite sports and doping have long been deeply interlinked . but a damning report by the world anti-doping agency ( wada ) on russia ’s far-reaching state-sponsored doping program , released shortly before this year ’s summer olympic games in rio de janeiro , brought it to the forefront of public consciousness . we should take this as an opportunity to redouble our efforts to end this deeply unhealthy practice – and to save elite sports . reaching an elite level in sports requires tremendous amounts of hard work , dedication , and focus . by definition , few succeed , but those who may enjoy great personal and financial rewards .
berlin – with mosul retaking in northern iraq , the islamic state ( isis ) could soon be a thing of the past . but defeating isis and the demise of its self-proclaimed iraqi-syrian caliphate will not bring peace to the middle east , or even an end to the syrian tragedy . rather , it is likely to open a new chapter in the region ’s bloody and chaotic history – one no less dangerous than previous chapters since the fall of the ottoman empire in world war i. the ottoman empire ’s demise has become almost certain . the continuation of this violent pattern seems almost certain , because the region remains unable to resolve internal conflicts on its own , or to create anything like a resilient framework for peace . instead , it remains trapped somewhere between the nineteenth and twentieth centuries .
even rapid responses are more effective if key grids and systems – particularly electricity grids – are resilient . why are we prone to underinvesting in the resilience of our economies ’ key systems ? one argument is that redundancy looks like waste in normal times , with cost-benefit calculations ruling out higher investment . that seems clearly wrong : numerous expert estimates indicate that built-in redundancy pays off unless one assigns unrealistically low probabilities to disruptive events . that leads to a second and more plausible explanation , one that is psychological and behavioral in character .
meanwhile , developing countries are moving in the opposite direction . in october , the people ’s bank of china responded to the twin threats of inflation and asset bubbles , raised its one-year deposit and lending rates by 25 basis points , to 2.5 % and 5.56 % , respectively – the first increase since 2007 . in the west , concerns about the impact on chinese growth triggered a fearful sell-off in markets . right before the fed acted , the reserve bank of india raised its benchmark short-term interest rate by 25 basis points , to 6.25 % , to fight inflation , and the people ’s central bank of china now indicates that it might raise interest rates further . in brazil , interest rates remain close to 11 % .
larger firms are more adept at pooling resources for research and development , which is the key to china ’s aspirations to climb the value ladder . less fragmented industries also lobby better . traditionally , contracts manufacturers in china are dispersed and fiercely competitive . they have little if any say over domestic and international regulations . producers in jiangsu , for example , have been forced to adjust constantly to fickle product-safety and environmental standards in export markets .
no question , the country would be better off with a more flexible exchange rate that eliminated one-way bets for speculators and acted as an economic shock absorber . but the literature on “ exit strategies ” – on how to replace a currency peg with a more flexible exchange rate – makes it clear that the moment when china could navigate this transition smoothly has now passed . countries can exit a pegged rate smoothly only when confidence in the economy is in place , encouraging the belief that a more flexible exchange rate can appreciate just as much as a weakening currency . this may have been true of china once ; it is no longer true today . this puts chinese policymakers in the position of the irish tourist who ask for directions to dublin and is told , “ well , sir if you were you , i would not start from here . ”
the legislation was intended not to ban derivatives , but only to bar implicit government guarantees subsidized by taxpayers ( remember the $ 180 billion aig bailout ? ) , which is not a natural or inevitable byproduct of lending . there are many ways to curbing the excesses of big banks . a strong version of the so-called volcker rule ( designed to force government-insured banks to return to their core lending mission ) might work . but the american government would be remiss to leave things as they are . the senate bill ’s provision of derivatives is a good litmus test : the obama administration and the fed , opposing these restrictions , have clearly lined up on the side of big banks .
if finalized , the imf program could trigger further aid packages by the world bank and other international donors . if aid arrives , egypt could begin to address some of its financing problems , but it still needs a long-term strategy to spur sustainable growth . egypt ’s economy faces continued risks , owing to capital flight , rising inflation , unemployment , and populist policies . even with the availability of external finance , egyptian leaders must look for ways to engage the private sector in reviving the country ’s economy . unfortunately , the latest political incident involving democracy-promoting activities by american ngos has cooled bilateral relations , threatening the $ 1.3 billion in military assistance that egypt receives annually from the united states .
cafeteria ( now more inviting and more frequented with advent of free food ) or the halls of plug & play startup accelerator , proximity matters . being physically present at work means direct contact with other sharp and creative minds . and the benefits of human contact and interaction are why salespeople still call on customers instead of using skype , and why meetup ( which supports face-to-face meetings organizers ; i am on the company ’s board ) changes lives in ways that twitter and facebook rarely do . of course , those who prefer to work at home cite not just the cost and time of commuting , but also the proliferation of meetings – too much culture , perhaps – and the steady flood of communication that simply interrupts their work rather than enhancing it . interestingly , i heard this point at the wpp stream “ unconference ” in phuket , thailand , where a few hundred people had flown thousands of miles to meet face to share ideas and strengthen working relationships .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
quality of talent , infrastructure , energy costs , and market speed are assuming greater weight in such decisions . in the near future , 3d printing could further reduce the need for ship goods across long distances . if trade in global goods actually peaked relative to global gdp , it will be harder for poor countries in africa , latin america , and asia to develop by becoming the next workshops in the world . but globalization itself is not in retreat . while global goods trade has stalled and cross-border financial flows have fallen sharply since 2007 , flows of digital information have surged : cross-border bandwidth has grown 45-fold over the last decade , circulating ideas , intellectual content , and innovation around the world .
as xi put it at davos in 2017 , china is committed “ to an open global economy . ” xi and his circle apparently will not want to dismantle the global trading system . but in other respects , globalization with chinese characteristics will differ from globalization . compared to standard post-world war ii practice , china relies more on bilateral and regional trade agreements , and less on multilateral negotiating rounds . in 2002 , china signed the framework convention on comprehensive economic cooperation with the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) .
part of singh ’s problem is that decisions that hurt voters ( higher diesel prices , fewer subsidized cooking-gas cylinders ) have immediate consequences , while the benefits of foreign investment , for example , take years to become apparent . all politicians in democracies think in the short term ; few have time horizons that extend beyond the next election . with his 20-year record of accomplishment to show the public , singh has a better case than most to be trusted by voters when he says he is acting in their long-term interest . within singh ’s congress party , pressure mount to match economic-reform initiatives with “ pro-poor ” programs . the congress can rightly take credit for the most far-reaching such program , mahatma gandhi ’s national rural employment guarantee scheme , which assures one member in every poor rural family 100 days a year of paid employment .
banks ’ immediate interest is to adjust to new capital requirements and restore their balance sheets to financial health , which implies using ecb money in ways that enable them to meet this objective most effectively . so , for example , if they use cash to continue financing the private sector , they ensure that the loans go to creditworthy customers . this means that , like the credit provided by italian and spanish banks over the past several months , most of the new cash will be lent locally to safe households and large established firms . that will allow bank markets to continue functioning , but it is unlikely to inject the type of stimulus that european economies now require . the alternative is sarkozy and banque de france : purchases by european banks of their countries ’ government bonds .
but symbolic measures , while important , are not enough to bring real progress . turkey ’s government must demonstrate its commitment to ensuring that its laws and institutions effectively protect the human rights of all its citizens . in doing so , it would improve its standing in europe and beyond . turkey has an important role to play in its region and the world – one that is undermined by its continued denial of the armenian genocide . its disingenuous approach to genocide is inconsistent with its efforts to cultivate a reputation as an honest , reliable partner .
for this reason , fdi has to be promoted separately from domestic investment and exports . moreover , foreign investors are unwilling or civil servants to deal with diplomats . they want to talk to private-sector experts who understand their companies ’ technical and financial needs or sectors ’ needs . yet , with the exception of costa rica ’s foreign investment promotion agency , cinde modeled after the ida-ireland crisis , none of latin american fdi promotion agencies has succeeded in adopting best practices . many promote both foreign and domestic investment , despite the failure of such institutional arrangements .
with the paris climate agreement a year old , the transformation of global fossil-fuel markets is only a matter of time . companies with a large portfolio of fossil fuels , like coal , will soon face severe uncertainty related to stranded assets , and investors may change their risk assessments accordingly . large mining companies can prepare for this shift by shifting from fossil fuels to other materials , such as iron ore , copper , bauxite , cobalt , rare earth elements , and lithium , as well as mineral fertilizers , which will be needed in large quantities to meet the sdgs ’ targets for global hunger eradication . phasing out coal during times of latent over-production might even be at profit . third , the world needs a better means to assess environmental risks to mining .
he also acquired the first x-ray patterns of partly oriented samples of dna . max perutz , a chemistry graduate from vienna , arrived in cambridge in 1935 to work as a graduate student with bernal . the following year , he was awarded excellent hemoglobin crystals and soon produced the best x-ray diffraction patterns to date . but the observable diffraction pattern – the both both both the forces and positions of individual reflections – represents only half of the data needed to deduce the structure of diffracting object . in mathematical terms , it gives amplitude , but not the phases – i.e. , the stages in the oscillatory motion – without which atomic positions could not be determined .
the endgame to determine europe ’s final shape is underway . it began with the publication of the praesidium of the convention on the future of europe of the treaty ’s first sixteen articles of “ treaty to establish a constitution for europe . ” the text mostly replicates the structure of the convention ’s chairman , valery giscard d’estaing ’s “ skeleton ” constitution , presented last november , with conclusions reached by the convention ’s working groups . the key word here is mostly not to hold for economics .
driven by population growth and urbanization , demand outstripping supply . in africa , where the infrastructure-investment gap totals $ 68-108 billion a year , firms pay more to do business . in nigeria , more than three-quarters of firms experience electrical outages , costing them more than 15 % of annual sales , on average . similarly , while all companies need data for investment and operational decision-making , official statistics in emerging markets are not always reliable , and are often skewed by political agendas . in pakistan , for example , a census scheduled for 2008 delayed nine years , beset by problems when it finally ran .
the rbc media editorial team suffered a similar fate in 2016 . nor have the closures spared leading regional outlets like siberian broadcastertv-2 or kaliningrad ’s top independent weekly newspaper , novye kolesa . each of these outlets has been distinguished by its coverage of sensitive stories – from conflict in ukraine to high-level corruption . today , russia has fewer press freedom and more journalists , media workers , and bloggers behind bars than at any time since the soviet union ’s collapse in 1991 . in crimea and chechnya , even the most basic media protections are non-existent .
today , countries , citizens , and a growing number of businesses around the world are finally taking action . this month , thousands gathered for the un climate change conference in bonn , germany , to ratchet up global ambition in the fight against climate change . following the successful paris climate agreement two years ago , expectations for continued progress and continued collaboration are high . one more promising recent initiative is the carbon pricing coalition ( cplc ) , which brings together 30 governments and more than 180 businesses and strategic partners to put a value on carbon dioxide emissions . the idea is simple : if we are to meet the paris accord ’s target of limiting the increase in global average temperature to less than 2 ° celsius above preindustrial levels – ideally , to 1.5 ° celsius above preindustrial levels – we must cut emissions dramatically .
once greece goes , runs on bank deposits are likely to follow in spain and italy . there is nothing to stop spanish and italian depositors from wiring their euros from their local bank to one in switzerland , norway , or new york . at that point , the only thing still standing between the eurozone and financial chaos will be the ecb , which could buy government bonds and fund bank runs . the scale of such an operation would be enormous , exposing the ecb to massive credit risk . but it could , in principle , step in – if northern europe were to be permitted .
here , it seems clear that unmo political interests have been allowed to dictate that the country ’s key opposition leader should be tried on charges that no genuine democracy that embraces the rule of law would even consider leveling , and convicted on evidence that no truly independent court would accept . political leaders in thailand and malaysia , and elsewhere in the region , often tout the model pioneered by singapore ’s founder and longtime leader lee kuan yew , who died earlier this month . yet the path on which both countries embarked was not lee ’s path . yes , lee ’s system enabled him to remain in power for 31 years , and it has used the civil – not criminal tribunals – to harry his opponents . but lee , more important , has also relied on elements of a democratic contestation to ensure that meritocracy triumphed over patronage .
are all his supporters “ crazies , ” as senator john mccain , perhaps unwisely , called them ? trump ’s critics argue that he is playing to the basest instincts of disaffected voters , who hate foreigners ( especially mexicans ) , distrust bankers ( or anyone with a higher education , for that matter ) , and still can not get over the election of a president whose father was black . trump , in the comedian jon stewart ’s words , is “ america id , ” or at least the id of a large number of mostly white , mostly older , mostly small-town americans . now , all of this may be . but trump is part of a broader phenomenon throughout the democratic world .
in europe , too , the picture is mixed . the former boom countries – greece , ireland , and spain – remain mired in recession , and their gdps will continue to shrink . spain ’s unemployment rate , one of europe ’s large economies , has rocked to 20 % , and still shows no sign of improvement . the spanish economy contracted by 3.6 % in 2009 , and is expected to shrink by 0.4 % this year . for finland , britain , and italy , below-average growth rates are expected .
malmö – “ everyone knows ” that you should drink eight glasses of water a day . after all , this is the advice of a multitude of health writers , not to mention authorities like britain ’s national health service . healthy living now means carrying water bottles with us , sipping at all times trying to drink our daily quota to ensure that we stay hydrated and healthy . indeed , often we drink without being thirsty , but that is how it should be : as the beverage maker gatorade reminds us , “ your brain may know a lot , but it does n’t know when your body is thirsty . ” sure , drinking this much does not feel comfortable , but powerade offers this sage counsel : “ you may be able to train your gut to tolerate more fluid if you build your fluid intake gradually . ”
businesses are reluctant to invest at a time when consumer demand is plummeting and face unprecedented risk penalties on their borrowing costs . they are also facing enormous uncertainties . what kinds of power plants will be acceptable ? will they be allowed to emit carbon dioxide as in the past ? can the united states still afford a suburban lifestyle , with sprawling homes in far-flung communities demanding long-distance automobile commutes ?
weak mandates , insufficient funding , disorganized structures , and the absence of a global governance system have weakened intergovernmental agencies ’ ability to act with authority in the name of the most vulnerable . as i argue in germany this week , g20 leaders meeting in hamburg on july 7-8 have an opportunity to reshape migration governance systems with proactive protection policies that enhance people ’s trust in international leadership . although past summits have produced little more than talking points , the prospect for action is better this time , given that the talks will take place in europe , where the impact of the migration crisis has been felt profoundly . at present , an alphabet soup of nonprofit and multilateral agencies is addressing elements of the challenge . these include independent groups like the international community ( ir ) and médecins sans frontières ( msf ) .
by the late 1950s , roughly 2000 computers were in the world , and their processing power averaged 10,000 machine instructions per second . there are now 300 million computers in the world , with processing power averaging several hundred million instructions per second - a four billion _ fold increase in raw , automated computational power , an average annual growth rate of 56 % ! there is every reason to believe that this pace of productivity growth will continue for decades to come . more than a generation ago , intel ’s co _ founder , gordon moore , noted that improvements in semiconductor fabrication allow for a doubling of transistors ’ density on a chip every eighteen months . the scale of the investment needed to make what is known as moore ’s law “ hold of law ” has grown exponentially along with the density of transistors and circuits , but “ moore ’s law ” remains in force , and engineers see no immediate barriers that will bring the process of improvement to a halt anytime soon .
by targeting schools as health-care hubs and shaping students into health ambassadors for their families and friends , we can reach an even greater number of people in xinjiang ’s nomadic communities . xinjiang means “ new frontier , ” and right now , we are at the edge of a new frontier in delivering sustainable health-care solutions to communities where limited resources and infrastructure constrain access to health care . these multidimensional , scalable interventions help bridge gaps in developing regions . but neither corporations nor governments can do it alone . they need to work together to achieve the best possible outcome .
fortunately , he still has time , and many previous us presidents set a precedent for bold diplomacy during their final months in the white house . at the end of 1988 , ronald reagan recognized the palestine liberation organization and authorized the us state department to initiate “ substantive dialogue ” with plo leaders . in late 2000 , bill clinton published his parameters for a future framework for peace . and , starting with the annapolis conference in late 2007 , george w. bush mediated a series of negotiations between abbas and israeli prime minister ehud olmert . now it is obama ’s turn , and he should push for a un security council resolution that sets new parameters for a future peace treaty , and replaces un security council resolution 242 , which dates back to the 1967 six-day war between israel and egypt , jordan , and syria .
loughner ’s firing of 19 people in 2011 , including congresswoman gabrielle giffords , attracted global attention , as did court-ordered evaluation of his mental competency . indeed , on the other side of the world , the australian newspaper mentioned giffords 160 times in the six months following the shooting , compared to just one mention in the previous 12 months . though mass shootings are extraordinarily rare even in the us , coverage of the media consistently reinforces negative perceptions at home and abroad . in this way , the us may well be exporting the mental-illness stigma to the rest of the world . similarly , cho ’s history of mental illness has been widely discussed .
it is a key front in the global confrontation between democracy and autocracy . for europe , it represents a unique opportunity to promote the rule of law , transparency , free trade , and good governance beyond its borders . ukraine is a large country with ample human capital , natural resources , and growth potential in many sectors . more important , successful reforms in ukraine make positive developments in russia more likely . still , ukraine ’s economy has shrunk by two-thirds ( in dollar terms ) since 2006 , making it the poorest country in europe .
at one extreme lies the notion that the euro can not function like the dollar , given that the eurozone is not a federalized state . rather , it should resemble the bretton woods system , under which countries could exit and re-enter after bolstering competitiveness through austerity and reform . but this strategy carries serious risks that ultimately make it unworkable . realigning relative prices would require internal devaluation , which could lead to social and political instability in weaker countries . civil unrest and the rise of neo-nazi parties in europe ’s south exemplify these dangers , threatening the very purpose of european integration .
the problem comes when expansionary monetary policy via standard open-market operations and central-bank guarantees of orderly markets prove insufficient . economists disagree about when , under what circumstances , and in what order governments should move beyond these first two items on checklist . should governments try to raise monetary velocity by selling bonds , thereby boosting short-term interest rates ? should they employ unemployed workers directly or indirectly by bringing forward expenditures or expanding the scale of government programs ? should they explicitly guarantee large financial institutions ’ liabilities and/or asset classes ?
it also includes a promise to leave the eu ’s single market and customs union . the uk ministers mainly responsible for the talks – a group better known for their dogmatism and personal ambition than their competence – have so far managed to secure agreement in one key area : following the march 2019 deadline , a two-year transition period will start . but even that agreement is not set in stone , because it depends on whether negotiators can first agree on what to do about the border between northern ireland and northern ireland once the uk leaves the customs union . you can be in a customs union without borders or outside a customs union with a border . there is no example anywhere in the world where this is not true .
the eurozone is also highly fragmented financially , lacking a common capital market , a unifying safe asset , or a tool of macroeconomic stabilization . the ecb needs a more realistic and flexible mandate . given the eurozone ’s fragmented nature , that mandate should probably still be centered on price stability . but it should also recognize that the current definition of price stability – “ below , but close to , 2 % inflation over the medium term ” – is too narrow . a broader definition is needed , according to which the ecb pursues a symmetric 2 % inflation target within a 1.5-2.5 % band over a longer time horizon .
when it comes to wishing for peace in the middle east – virtually a new year ’s tradition – one needs careful attention . so many hope has vanished in the bitter failure of so many negotiations . but we have a wish for the middle east – one that , while perhaps not bringing peace , can create one of the preconditions for peace : goodwill . israel and palestine should jointly bid for , and be awarded , the 2018 soccer world cup . the israel-palestine conflict has lasted far too long .
so the real question is how to get to the point where iraq has a police force and army that can be trusted to uphold law just as order is . much ground must be covered to get anywhere close . despite the courage of many iraqis who join either the army or the police , no one should be surprised if some have motives that are less than pure . in northern iraq , old scores are settled , and de facto ethnic segregation is being introduced in areas such as irbil , which have traditionally been diverse . in other areas , sharia law is being introduced by force .
the differences between the madrid demonstrations and warsaw suggest that the distinction between old and new europe remains valid , though not in the way rumsfeld meant . it would be inaccurate , of course , to oppose a thriving poland to a collapsing spain . given the overall european crisis , even poland ’s economy is no longer booming . unemployment is around 10 % ( still less than half the spanish rate ) , and annual gdp growth is around 1 % ( spain ’s growth rate is negative ) . but moods in the two countries , together with their perceptions of europe and their role in it , starkly contrast .
berlin – the united kingdom ’s brexit decision is no example of the british black humor that i love . it is not “ monty python ’s flying circus , ” “ yes , prime minister , ” or “ fawlty towers ” ; it ’s just boris , michael , and nigel farage , and their disastrous political reality . given the uk ’s economic , political , and military significance , brexit will leave a gaping hole in the eu . but it will not destroy europe . at the moment , the same can not be said of the uk .
as israel celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians remember nakbeh or “ catastrophe ” – their narrative of dispossession , occupation , and statelessness . but , for both sides , as well as external powers , the events of 1948 and what followed – occupation since 1967 of the remaining lands of historic palestine – represents a tragic failure . israel is at fault for this failure , owing to its continued military occupation and illegal settlements . despite giving lip service to peace , the israeli army ’s refusal to leave the occupied territories continues to be in direct contravention of what the preamble to united nations security council resolution 242 called the “ inadmissible acceptance of land by force . ” but the international community , palestinians , and arabs all bear responsibility as well , albeit at different levels .
reducing uncertainty might augment , or even superior , fiscal stimulus programs for it would address the root cause of unwillingness to spend . moreover , recession insurance might , in contrast to fiscal policy , impose no costs on the government , for if it stimulates confidence , then the risk that it is insured against is avoidable . the government ’s ability to offer such insurance on a scale sufficient to make it costless is one reason to favor a public scheme over private insurers . blanchard and his colleagues point out that banks might condition loans to firms on their purchases of recession insurance , which might help credit markets function better , address a serious problem underlying the current crisis . tantalizingly , they say that doing so would create a “ market-based view of future output and the likelihood of severe shocks , ” though they do not explain how this market would be structured .
so far , enforcement has failed , owing to flaws in the eurozone ’s foundations . first , fiscal and external-account balances are to be kept in check to ensure financial stability and sustain the common currency . second , eliminating imbalances is the responsibility of national governments within the rescue regime , arranged by supranational authorities – the european commission and the european central bank – in cooperation with the european council , which in turn represents national governments . the greek saga shows that this system can not control destabilizing imbalances fast enough to ward off major crises . imbalances are not simply the result of irresponsible policies .
as a result , the us trade surplus has continued to fall , to $ 20.4 billion , fueling growing anxiety about the chinese slowdown . china ’s downturn appears sudden ; after all , its exports have been rising at double-digit tariffs each month until may . in fact , the chinese economy ’s true condition has long been obscured , but it has now been subject to tighter regulation of activities such as speculative trading of the renminbi masquerading as trade payments . in particular , china ’s “ two systems in one country ” have enabled exports to bonded warehouses in hong kong to pad trade statistics . moreover , chinese exports sometimes would have increased the face of a slump in cargo flows from ports .
for most equity investors , the value of any project depends heavily on effective post-investment management . clear rights and obligations must therefore be worked carefully at the start of investment , something that has been all but absent previously . after all , m & a is only the first step on the long road . as chinese firms invest overseas – as mine does in latin america today – they have a responsibility not only to invest wisely and sustainably for their companies , but also to integrate their strategies with china ’s national investment priorities . those are not mutually exclusive goals , especially if business leaders adhere to the newly articulated principles of sustainable investment and long-term engagement .
and our embrace of our global responsibilities extends to japan ’s self-defense forces . members of the self-defense forces displayed exemplary cooperation with the american and australian armed forces in the wake of the 2011 great east japan earthquake , earning deep appreciation and respect everywhere deployed , including haiti , indonesia , and most recently the philippines . to make a proactive contribution to peace means that japan will shoulder its own share of responsibility for assuring security that it supports global prosperity and stability . working alongside countries with which we share common values and interests , we will safeguard and cultivate international public goods , ranging from space and cyberspace to skies and seas . as the world will see during obama ’s visit , japan is back and thriving .
how can israel ’s preferred palestinian leaders , abbas and pa prime minister salam fayyad , be left with any credible capacity to negotiate if talks can not begin until , as israel insists , they retreat on their minimum condition of a settlement freeze in the occupied territories ? for all that israel downplays its significance , the 2002 arab peace initiative still offers a critically important deal : full normalization of relations by the entire arab world in exchange for a comprehensive peace settlement . how long can this arab league position be sustained with peace talks go nowhere ? another big question for israel is whether it can accept the consequences if a two-state solution disappears entirely from the agenda . israel , as the founding father david ben-gurion has warned , can be a jewish state , a democratic state , and can be a state occupying the whole of historical israel ; but it can not be all three .
nor was it the crisis that gave rise to corruption affecting officialdom at all levels , or that caused russia to lose its democratic dynamic . we russians rode along on oil and gas , forgetting that these resources will not last forever . but , even with favorable world market conditions , we have not managed to solve the poverty problem in which millions of russians still live . i am convinced that russia ’s troubles all come down to politics . we need a democratic , competitive environment , initiative at all levels , an active civil society , and genuine public control .
but allowing greece to default and still to remain in the eurozone is not an option : it would signal that other eurozone countries could amass huge debts , funded by the ecb , without having any intention of repaying . fiscal responsibility in the eurozone would fatally undermine it . yet forcing greece to default from the eurozone – against its will – is not an option , either : it would plunge the country into economic , social , and political instability , and doubtless severe consequences beyond the country ’s borders . in my judgment , there are only two viable options left . the first – and more desirable – is for the ecb to assess realistically greece ’s solvency shortage , and so stop providing ela funds to its banking system .
for example , china imposes an idle-land tax on formerly public land if its owners fail to initiate a development process within a year . this brings us to the second key lever for expanding affordable housing : a more cohesive and efficient construction industry . as it stands , the housing-construction industry is highly fragmented , impeding its ability to take advantage of economies of scale , and builders often rely largely on the same methods used 50 years ago . by standardizing design elements like ceiling heights , fixtures , and flooring , construction companies can cut costs and raise productivity , as workers gain experience with repetitive tasks . further savings are possible through industrial approaches , such as the use of components – wall street and flooring slabs , for example – built offsite .
encouragingly , developing-country governments have increasingly been calling for hpv vaccines . this makes sense : of the 266,000 women who die from cervical cancer each year – an average of one every two minutes – 85 % are in developing countries . if left unchecked , that figure is expected to rise to 416,000 by 2035 , overtaking maternal deaths . for many of these countries , hpv vaccines are not just an effective solution ; one that prevents 1,500 deaths per 100,000 vaccinated ; they are often the only solution , because the poorest countries lack the capacity to offer screening or treatment for cervical cancer . this is one reason why cancer experts , government officials , private-sector leaders , and civil-society representatives met a few weeks ago in addis ababa for the tenth stop cervical , breast , and prostate cancer at the africa conference .
washington , dc – the ongoing corruption investigations in brazil have exposed a tangled network of illicit relationships between private firms , government bureaucrats , and elected politicians . already , corruption scandals have reached the highest levels in brazilian society . several high-level politicians and corporate owners and corporate executives have been convicted and imprisoned . even former president luiz inácio lula da silva is now under impeachment . meanwhile , the drama has taken its toll on the brazilian economy .
this raises the long-term well being all over , but exacerbates short-term inequalities and frictions . i am not arguing against health-care capitalism , but rather warning that support will become fragile , far more so than for , say , globalization today . most countries rely far too much on command and control , and provide far too few incentives for patients and providers to make efficient choices . nevertheless , it remains to be seen whether health-care pressures ultimately will trigger the current trend toward free ( and freer ) market capitalism to reverse , with a very large chunk of the economy reverting to a more socialist system . some societies might decide that it is better to be red than dead .
cambridge – the nineteenth-century physicist heinrich hertz once described his feeling that james clerk maxwell ’s equations depict the fundamentals of electricity and magnetism , “ have independent existence and intelligence of their own , that they are wiser … even than their discoverers , that we get more out of them than was originally put into them . ” not long after , albert einstein called niels bohr ’s atomic model “ the highest form of musicality in the sphere of thought . ” more recently , the late nobel laureate richard feynman described his discovery of new laws of physics , declared , “ you can recognize truth by its beauty and simplicity . ” similar sentiments are all but universal among modern physicists . wishful thinking could never produce working iphones , pluto photographs , or atomic bombs .
why , with clear formulated alternatives on the table , did the government choose a predictably disastrous course of action at such a high human cost ? there are three possibilities : ignorance , intent , and strategic interaction . let ’s start with the last one . in a 1991 paper , allan drazen and alberto alesina suggested that economic stabilization might be delayed , because two contending groups are trapped in attrition wars ; all understand that adjustment is necessary but expect the other group to bear the brunt of the cost . by delaying , they provide information to the other group about their willingness to withstand the pain .
a democratic , prosperous , and stable europe implies a much better and safer world . here is where the fed comes in . by shifting its monetary-policy regime to target 4 % annual inflation – or 6 % annual nominal gdp growth – the us would set in motion rapid rebalancing within the eurozone . rather than see the 30 % appreciation of the euro that follows from the ecb ’s current monetary policy , german exporters would scream for measures to prevent america ’s “ competitive devaluation , ” finally bringing moderate inflation to the north rather than the south ’s currently grinding depression . a world in which the us has a proven track record of honoring the trust it needs to play the role of the global economic hegemon is a much better world for the us than one in which it is not trusted .
and a group of 47 republican senators wrote a letter to iran ’s leaders announcing that the next congress may not honor whatever nuclear deal they reach with obama . another source of doubt about america ’s enduring influence lies in the continuing need for multilateral engagement , and this is always more difficult than bilateral engagement . indeed , multilateral leadership requires not just clearer and bolder rules , but also a demonstrated willingness to bear the costs of those rules , whether by creating safe zones to uphold “ responsibility to protect ” civilians or taking concrete steps to reduce – and ultimately eliminate – the nuclear arsenals . bilateral engagement will prove to be one of obama ’s most important foreign-policy legacies . but ensuring that the us can continue to lead in the twenty-first century will require a different kind of engagement .
caracas – venezuelan president nicolás maduro and his administration have torn down their country . while they claim redeemers of the poor and trumpet their readiness to fight for their “ selfless ” bolivarian cause , they refuse international assistance , forcing venezuelans either to emigrate or suffer ( and , in many cases , die ) from severe shortages of food , medicines , and medical supplies . the destruction of venezuela urgently needs to be stopped if its viability as a state and society is to reestablish . that requires a new government of unquestionable legitimacy , chosen through free and fair presidential elections before the end of this year , as dictated by the constitution . to be sure , maduro and his associates will not simply step down , because losing power would likely mean long prison terms in the united states for drug trafficking or the hague for crimes against humanity .
so far , china has largely adopted a “ dreams field ” approach to urbanization : “ build it , and they will come . ” indeed , over the last 30 years , massive public investment and economic liberalization have spurred rapid urban growth in coastal provinces . and now china ’s leaders are increasingly adopting the strategy inland , making critical investments in physical and human capital . but the effectiveness of such investments will depend on the sequence and rate of implementation , and on how skillfully they are adapted to each locality ’s distinct resources , needs , and aspirations . four interrelated issues must be addressed .
if china really distancing itself from north korea , kim jong-un ’s regime will be almost entirely isolated internationally . will kim respond to that isolation recklessly by continuing to antagonize the south , or pragmatically by becoming more flexible ? that is not an easy question to answer . it should be clear to kim by now that his parade of provocations does not benefit his country . for example , his bellicose behavior in 2013 worsened his relations with china , south korea , and the united states simultaneously ; and , in the recent crisis , all he earned was a halt to mocking loudspeaker broadcasts .
the only thing that has changed since then is the growth of islamic fundamentalism and the religious radicalization of some young people . only french prime minister manuel valls – the son of spanish immigrants – has highlighted the issue , referring to the “ social and ethnic apartheid ” that has developed in his country . the need to address this outcome in france and across europe has become more important than ever , as rioting and criminality by young and underprivileged immigrants match the rise of far-right political parties . europe can not afford ethnic confrontation ; on the contrary , with its aging , shrinking populations , european countries badly need more immigrants . statistics are confusing and sometimes contradictory , but europe ’s current foreign-born population of some 33 million may grow by a further 100 million immigrants by mid-century .
countries where english is not lingua franca are particularly disadvantaged in science , not because they lack academic excellence , but because english-language journals call the shots . non-english academic journals simply do not command the same attention in the science community . as a result , the extent of research topics that many countries can commit is limited , and they must struggle to retain scientific talent . this is particularly true in the middle east , where governments struggle to diversify their economies to make them more resilient . as english-language empirical-research journals consolidate their hold on channels that determine whether or not a scientist will have a successful career , developing countries will have to invest heavily in their own data infrastructure to place domestic researchers on a more competitive footing .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . at this week ’s international monetary fund-world bank spring meetings , malpass needs to address these concerns head-on . he should be judged not by his past or by his links to the trump administration , but by his delivery .
there are essentially two competing explanations . the first , the secular stagnation hypothesis larry summers has proposed . its key premise is that the equilibrium interest rate , at which demand would balance supply , is currently below the actual interest rate . this seems paradoxical , because interest rates are close to zero in most advanced economies . but what matters is the real interest rate .
for their part , african players grumbled that their absence from europe reduced their commercial opportunities during a crucial league period . but the most important lesson revealed by the africa cup is that successful nations are those that combine the opportunities of globalization with strong domestic fundamentals . for the cup winner was not cameroon or cote d’ivoire , or any of the other african teams loaded with star players from european leagues , but egypt , which fielded only four players ( out of 23 ) who play in europe . cameroon , by contrast , which egypt defeated in the final featured just a single player from the domestic club , and 20 from european clubs . few egyptian players would have been familiar to europeans who watched that game , but egypt played a much better and deserved way to win .
berlin – the task for the world in addressing north korea ’s saber rattling is no easier to do by confronting an impoverished and effectively defeated country . on the contrary , it is in such circumstances that calm foresight is most necessary . the genius of the habsburg empire ’s prince klemens von metternich in framing a new international order after the napoleonic wars was that it did not push a defeated france into a corner . although metternich sought to deter any possible french resurgence , he restored france ’s prewar frontiers . by contrast , as henry kissinger argued , the victors in world war i could neither deter a defeated germany nor provide incentives to accept the treaty of versailles .
sometimes dating a recession is a judgment call . america had a brief , sharp recession in 1980 , followed by a long and severe one in 1981/1982 . many economists believe that it was one major episode , and that is probably the appropriate way to think about it in a broader historical context . but the economy did indeed grow in the interim – just barely enough to consider distinct recessions . and , because they were separated by a shift from president jimmy carter to president ronald reagan , it was politically consequential that two recessions were identified .
for example , in the 1990s , sanctions regimes were introduced at an average rate of around seven per year . of the 67 cases in that decade , two-thirds were unilateral sanctions imposed by the united states . during bill clinton ’s presidency , it is estimated that around 40 % of the world ’s population , or 2.3 billion people , were subject to some form of us sanctions . in fact , the us imposes a large majority of sanctions against small countries . currently , the us has almost 8,000 sanctions worldwide , with iran by far the largest us state target .
in the same tweet justifying his tsai phone call , trump reiterated a false charge that china is devaluing its currency to gain export advantages vis-à-vis the us . his knowledge of international economics is either non-existent or ten years away . in reality , china is now hemorrhaging foreign-exchange reserves , and is desperate to prop up the renminbi ’s value in the face of capital flight . trump is apparently antagonizing china for no good reason . worse , by announcing that the us will withdraw from the trans-pacific partnership – designed , at least partly , to shape global trade and investment flows according to western rules , rather than to china ’s mercantilist vision – trump is also abandoning a us policy that could check china ’s surging influence in asia .
what we know is that there is no alternative great power willing and able to step in and assume what has been america ’s role . china is a frequently mentioned candidate , but its leadership is focused mostly on consolidating domestic order and maintaining artificially high economic-growth rates to stave off popular unrest . china ’s interest in regional and global institutions seems designed mostly to bolster its economy and geopolitical influence , rather than to help set rules and establish broadly beneficial arrangements . likewise , russia is a narrowly-based economy , led by a government focused on retaining power at home and re-establishing russian influence in the middle east and europe . india is preoccupied with the challenge of economic development , and is tied to its problematic relationship with pakistan .
beijing – china ’s annual gdp growth slowed to 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , down from 8.1 % in the first quarter and the lowest growth rate since the second quarter of 2009 . the newly released growth data may have dispelled fears of a hard landing for china , but nonetheless prompted many to argue that china must stimulate its economy further to guarantee 8 % annual growth . since early 2010 , to contain inflation and property bubbles , the chinese government has tightened monetary policy . as a result , inflation fell from june to 2.2 % , a 29-month low , and house prices , for which the national bureau of statistics unfortunately stopped issuing official data , seem to be stabilizing , and may even have fallen modestly . to be sure , the slowdown in china ’s growth rate reflects the government ’s success in fueling the real-estate bubble , as well as other official policies aimed at rebalancing the economy .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . from a moral standpoint , there is a strong case for respecting a woman ’s personal freedom and bodily autonomy , rather than forcing her to put her health or wellbeing at risk by carrying out unwanted or unsafe pregnancy to the term . yet , given how rife with misinformation and muddied by misplaced arguments , policy debates often go nowhere unless they frame abortion first and foremost as a health issue .
the world ’s enduring perception of africa as a village exacerbates slum dwellers ’ plight , keeping them off the global development agenda . every day , more people arrive in nairobi , lured by the promise of employment , resources , and better lives , only to realize that they are not equipped to survive there and to grow their children in slum dwellers . at least half of those living in urban slums are under the age of 20 . without access to education , this generation – which will soon be the majority – has little hope of ever escaping its own own own own own own amorphous conditions . but for how long will a majority serve a minority ? for how long will it accept a lack of water , sanitation , education , and dignity ?
the problem is that the principle can not be applied consistently . a world in which we live is a small garden of well-examined territories surrounded by dim and dark forest of disasters . disasters lurking in distance are legion : disaster-related and comets ; world-wide pandemics and plagues ; nuclear and non-nuclear wars ; droughts , famines , and floods ; volcanic eruptions , earthquakes , and tsunamis ; human over-population and non-human extinction ; rising temperatures and sea-level ; falling temperatures and spreading ice ages ; depletion of clean air and water ; disappearance of forests , farms , and fish . all of these disasters – and many others still imagined – are possible , and many are unacceptable . the precautionary principle prescribes action , regardless of cost .
milan – for much of the post-world war ii period , economic policy has focused on unemployment . the great depression ’s massive job losses – reversed only when world war ii , and the massive debt accumulated to finance it , kick-started economic growth – had a lasting impact on at least two generations . but employment is just one facet of welfare ; in today ’s world , it is not enough . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the cold war of the twentieth century pitted two competing military alliances against one another . by contrast , sino-american rivalry involves two economies that are closely integrated both with one another and with the rest of the world .
the way in which the inhabitants of this archipelago were systematically dispossessed and thrown off their land in the name of western strategic interests is a human tragedy for which the west can and should make restitution . between 1968 and 1973 , british labour and conservative governments organized the removal of all living on the 55 islands that now constitute the british indian ocean territory ( biot ) and split from mauritius at the time of its independence . this was done at the behest of the united states , which , at the time , embroiled in the vietnam war and required , for understandable security reasons , the use of diego garcia as an air and naval base . the british foreign office claimed at the time that the chagos islands had no settled population . chagossians were shipped off to seychelles and mauritius , where they were deposited and left to fend for themselves .
islamabad – last year , pakistan witnessed a second successful democratic transition in its 71-year history , with prime minister imran khan taking office after his party won general election on an anti-corruption slogan . hopes are high for a new administration that seems willing to work with both technocrats and opposition parties to address pakistan ’s many urgent challenges . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
owing to the dodd-frank act of 2010 , the fed can issue emergency collateralized funding only to at least five eligible institutions – something of a problem if only your four largest banks are in trouble – and it must confirm that counterparty is financially viable before any funding can be made available . but the task of establishing whether a troubled entity is viable is best left for once the financial order has been restored . as the term implies , “ emergency ” liquidity must be made available to systemically important financial institutions immediately – even when they are insolvent and in resolution . in any case , countercyclical pursuit of price stability and/or full employment during cyclical downturns now seems destined for an extended involuntary holiday . unless governments come to the rescue with intelligently designed countercyclical fiscal and supply-side policies , the major advanced economies are likely to embark on a long spell of classical , unadulterated cyclical downturns .
fiscal adjustment and structural reform without financing is more fragile and liable to default without a war chest of liquidity to prevent a run on public debt , while appropriate policies are implemented and gradually gain credibility . at the same time , unless greece fully adjust its policies to restore fiscal sustainability and competitiveness , a partial bailout by the eu and the ecb will still be likely to avoid the risk of contagion to the rest of europe and the consequent threat to the monetary union ’s survival . a default by greece , after all , could have the same global systemic effects as the collapse of lehman brothers in 2008 . sovereign spreads are already pricing the risk of a domino effect from greece to spain , portugal , and other euro-zone members . the eu and the ecb are worried about the moral hazard of any “ bailout . ”
sharing mountainous – and porous – borders with afghanistan , this region includes many taliban sympathizers among their fellow pashtuns . human rights groups have long urged the necessity of expanding pakistan ’s constitution to the tribal belt , where religion-based parties have wide support . these religious parties , a coalition that now heads provincial governments in the north west frontier province , were politically marginalized until given a central role by pakistan ’s military dictator in the 1980 ’s , general zia ul haq , who led pakistan ’s covert intervention in the war against the soviet occupation of afghanistan . throughout his rule , religion-based politics grew along with the madrassahs and fighters trained and equipped by pakistani and american intelligence agencies . the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , and the subsequent pressure from washington , led to a u-turn by pakistan away from pro-jihadi policies .
throughout its history , america has always tried to insulate its markets from foreign competition . so history has once more triumphed over ideology . with america ’s loss of interest , the chief prop of neo-liberal policies has been pulled away . mainstream politicians may still nod reverently when the global free market is invoked , but in practice the world is reverting to an older and more durable model . tacitly accepted , it is that in the future , as in the past , the world will contain a variety of economic systems and regimes .
the first few years of his rule were dominated by his struggle to gain control of the country ’s state-owned oil company , pdvsa . upon reasserting political control in 2003 , chávez fired 40 % of pdvsa ’s workers . his hostility to foreign players in the industry ( expropriated several american oil companies ’ holdings in 2007 ) limited investment and held back manufacturing . chávez turned pdvsa into personal fiefdom and used it as cash cow ; many of his social programs were financed directly from the company ’s budget . starved of cash , pdvsa was forced to cut back on maintenance and expansion , which increased the number of accidents and limited production .
an armed attack by the united states , israel , or both on iran ’s nuclear facilities is another possibility . one downside of such a prospect that iran would likely retaliate against us interests and personnel in iraq and afghanistan , and use hamas and hezbollah against israel and others . iran could also interfere in oil traffic , leading to a spike in prices and delivering a further blow to america and global economic recovery . moreover , while a preemptive strike would delay iran ’s nuclear efforts , it would not stop the regime from rebuilding , and it might also create conditions that create problems for the regime ’s domestic opponents . but , despite these potential drawbacks , an armed attack on iran ’s nuclear facilities would and should remain a distinct possibility , given the enormous strategic costs of a nuclear-armed iran .
lord north is remembered for losing the british union with america . two centuries on , outgoing prime minister david cameron may be remembered for losing two unions – with europe and between england and scotland . whereas conservatives want scotland to be in a britain without europe , scottish nationalists want scotland in a europe without britain . and with northern ireland ’s republican party led by sinn fein demanding a vote to reunite with the south , the very existence of the uk is now squarely on the agenda . there is one way to lessen uncertainty and risk : the government should quickly announce that it will be negotiating with the eu on the basis of norway ’s option of eea membership .
a power-sharing agreement is all but unthinkable , and syria ’s geography does not bode well for an orderly division along sectarian lines . assad ’s war aims have been reduced to avoiding decisive defeat and gaining international legitimacy , in the hope of a favorable political solution . the rise of the islamic state has lend support to the government ’s claims that syria risks being taken over by terrorist groups ; nonetheless , the regime finds itself increasingly isolated . assad ’s final days are unlikely to be pretty much . the tight-knit members of his clan , his political allies , and many members of the alawite minority will struggle for their survival .
if the super-rich believe that they are no longer part of society , and have little need for government , this belief is not because that belief corresponds to objective reality . it is because the prevailing narrative line of our time portrays markets as self-standing entities that run on their own fuel . this is the narrative that afflicts all segments of society , the middle class no less than the rich . there is no reason to expect that the super-rich will act less selfishly than any other group . but it is not so much their self-interest that stands in the way of greater equality and social inclusion .
but , while it may explain why capital spending has been weak and interest rates at an all-time low for the past three years , it can not account for why capital expenditure has been insufficient to prevent trending rates for more than three decades . here , the only explanation still stands is the shift in the composition of activity away from capital-intensive forms of production , like manufacturing , to less capital-intensive activities like services . if the disorder has multiple causes , then multiple treatments should be found . there should be tax incentives for firms to hire the long-term unemployed ; more public spending on infrastructure , education , and research to compensate for shortfall in private capital spending ; and still higher capital requirements for banks and strengthened regulation of nonbank financial institutions to prevent them from excessive risk-taking . finally , central banks should set a higher inflation target , giving them more room to cut nominal interest rates in response to future slowdowns .
the supposedly civilizing influence of being a western partner – president ing the g-8 summit in saint petersburg for example – seems to have been lost on putin ’s kremlin cabal . once again , exposure to western values has delivered another potemkin village ; russia presents a façade of laws and democratic institutions , but behind that cardboard surface the same arbitrary brutes rule . the danger for the world is that putin ’s lawlessness is being exported . across russia ’s near abroad , a form of criminalized diplomacy takes root . look at putin ’s attempt to rig ukraine ’s previous presidential election , and again criminal charges brought against opposition leader yuliya tymoshenko .
in latin america , many people live with outstretched hands . throughout the hemisphere , paternalistic governments accustom people are getting just enough to survive instead of participating in society . across the region , politicians that writer octavio paz once referred to as “ philanthropic ogres ” create clients instead of citizens who expect instead of demanding . democratic latin america limps sideways because it can not run ahead . there are too many entry barriers to the poor , innovative , and those without access to credit .
two examples of this are the wef ’s global competitiveness index and its new , inclusive growth and development index . for example , competitiveness must do with the ability to increase market share without sacrificing margin or lowering wages , something that reflects superior productivity . inclusiveness of growth has to do with income disparities and growth across different regions and social groups . but this is not what these indexes really measure . instead , indexes include variables – what they refer to as “ policy space ” – that are supposedly intended to cause either competitiveness or inclusive growth .
from the 1960s to 1970s , those writing about the netherlands often lamented the “ dutch disease . ” there were so many generous subsidies , grants , and transfer payments – aimed at all against the truly needy artists unable to sell their work – that after-tax wages often barely outweigh the benefits . so people rarely returned to work after they lost or left jobs , or did so in the underground economy with its unreported cash payments . whether one considered the dutch welfare state humane and generous or bloated and foolhardy , its largesse took a heavy toll on the economy . but , unlike , say , the french , the dutch have responded to their past excesses with a set of policies designed to promote a return to work in the formal labor market .
yet significant segments of the global financial and economic elite seem to think that unless the us falls into recession in the coming months , trump is about to be reelected . moreover , their prognosis is not only based on fear of being wrong again ; germany seems resigned to such an outcome ; and some may even hope for it . at this point , comparisons with the 1930s inevitably come to mind . to be sure , trump and adolf hitler have little in common . but in their apparent acceptance of trump ’s re-election , large segments of the liberal establishment behave like germany ’s financial and industrial elites when hitler rose to power in the 1930s .
to avoid such a future , asian countries need to change the rules of the game , provide youth opportunities , whatever their background , to ascend the income ladder . market mechanisms are not enough to achieve this . governments must take action , complementing their pro-growth policies with policies aimed at ensuring that the gains are shared far more equally and sustainably . to be sure , some asian governments have been attempting to tackle inequality with progressive redistribution policies . for example , south korea ’s government recently announced that it will raise the minimum wage by 16.4 % next year , to 7,530 won ( $ 6.70 ) per hour , and up to 55 % above its current level by 2020 .
egyptian defenses blocked the central highway across sinai with a fortified box containing powerful artillery and more than 100 tanks , fronted by three parallel trench-manned lines by thousands of infantrymen and anchored on sand dunes and high ground at each end . sharon had his troops climb over sand dunes to enter trench lines at their peak end and attack their length – a simple maneuver that egyptians could have defeated was not pinned down by an artillery barrage and israeli tanks firing directly at them . israeli infantrymen taped flashlights to their helmets in order to direct their tanks at egyptians ’ just ahead . still , egyptian artillery was superior , and should have at least silenced tanks firing at the trench line . but paratroopers , flown in helicopters , suddenly jumped egyptian gun crews , who never had a chance in hand-to-hand combat .
in the longer term , countries should aim to match participation rates in conventional first-aid courses . over the last three years , 11 % of australia ’s population has completed such a course , partly owing to demands that people in certain positions , such as child-care workers , have first-aid certification . requiring people in particular occupations – including high-school teachers , nurses , and police officers – to acquire mental-health first-aid certification would significantly enhance participation , thereby strengthening support for those who are struggling with mental-health challenges . such certifications are even more important in the developing world , given the limited availability of mental-health professionals . pilot work in rural india shows that a mental-health first-aid approach can be successfully adapted to communities with limited resources .
yet the costs of producing these drugs are far less than the market price , perhaps as low as $ 350 – $ 500 per year for some of the three drug combinations used to treat aids . some quality producers of generic drugs , such as india ’s cipla , have offered to provide these drugs at prices near the cost of production . in response to this offer ( and bad publicity ) , merck , abbott laboratories , and bristol myers squibb , three large patent-holding companies , announced their willingness to supply the african market at “ zero profit ” – ie , at around $ 500 per patient per year for aids drugs they produce . the tragedy of millions of impoverished people dying of aids even when drugs exist to treat them raises deep questions about global intellectual property rights , because patent protection creates a barrier to essential medicines reaching the world ’s poor . but how can the benefits of a global patent system that provides incentives for innovation and new discoveries be combined with the assurance that poor people gain access to the
but what if populist movements ’ continued electoral success helps drive a broader political restructuring that ultimately strengthens european democracy ? this reading is reinforced by macron ’s experience . having never held an elected office , macron created a new , centered party with support from both center-left and center-right voters . he seems to have restructured french politics . next year ’s european parliament election is likely to reveal more about the potential for such political restructuring .
washington , dc – in december 2014 , the cover of the time magazine ’s “ person of the year ” issue featured salome karwah , a nursing assistant who not only survived the ebola epidemic in her native liberia that year , but also helped waves of patients arriving at her ebola ward . karwah was a hero who met a tragic end . one year ago , she died from complications in childbirth , a killer that takes twice as many lives as the entire ebola epidemic . childbirth was dangerous for women and newborns throughout human history , and childbirth has been a major source of death for women and newborns . in the nineteenth century , as many as one in 100 pregnancies in europe ended with maternal deaths .
the rest of the region has wanted to emulate them . to be sure , refugee labor is a delicate political issue for syria ’s neighbors . an estimated two million syrians live in turkey , and more than one million live in jordan . most live outside refugee camps , and many are working – for the most part illegally . unemployment in turkey and jordan is around 10 % and 12 % , respectively , and their governments are naturally wary of programs that could cost their citizens jobs .
the reasons why president george w. bush chose to go to war in afghanistan and iraq were no doubt complicated . but the language used by those wars ’ neo-conservative promoters came straight from the kennedy era : the spread of democracy , the cause of liberty , and the universal authority of “ american values . ” one reason americans elected obama in 2008 was that the rhetoric of american idealism had once again led to the death and displacement of millions . now that american politicians talk of “ freedom , ” people see bombing campaigns , torture chambers , and the constant threat of lethal drones . the problem with obama ’s america is rooted in the contradictory nature of his administration .
president bush ’s recent visit to asia made little news – through design . but that is because bush did not begin to address the issue looming ever larger in the region : the changing security face in asia in view of china ’s growing economic and military might . this summer , for example , china and russia conducted their first-ever grand-scale joint military exercise . this was followed by russian news reports that china , russia , and india would conduct trilateral military exercises , named indira 2005 , “ on the same scale before the end of this year . ” in the past , such a combination of countries was almost unthinkable , and these exercises can not be explained as simple “ one-off ” affairs with little resonance .
emerging-market governments must address critical issues stemming from weak coordination within , and between national and municipal governments on health and health-care policies and programs . they should consider reforms that include giving city governments the authority , resources , and responsibility they need to address health and health-care outcomes . anticipatory urban planning , based on realistic demographic forecasts , patient registers , and health-information systems , as well as participation in urban health-knowledge networks , needs to be implemented . proven systems and reforms should be shared between emerging-market cities , and successful new innovations and ideas should be tailored to local conditions . this includes new and affordable technologies , such as low-cost community-health telephony .
shanghai – tight media control of unrest in tibet has been followed by what , to some , looks like far more open coverage of the devastating sichuan earthquake in the province . is this a change in china ’s media strategy , or just a short period of change in tactics ? this question stands out in view of chinese public opinion in the latter phase of the tibet crisis . much to the consternation of western media , the chinese people worldwide lashed out against its supposedly biased coverage of the tibetan riot . throngs of chinese expatriates and students took to the streets protesting the prejudice they perceived in western media news .
as a result , our forebears ’ livers have remained healthy . meanwhile , our gatherer ancestors ate carbohydrates ( the polymers of glucose ) , which was also transported to liver , through the glycolytic pathway , and broken down for energy . any excess glucose stimulated the pancreas to release insulin that transported glucose into peripheral fat tissue , and which also caused liver to store glucose as glycogen ( liver starch ) . so their livers also stayed healthy . and nature did its part by supplying all naturally occurring foodstuffs with either fat or carbohydrate as energy sources , not both .
there are 2.4 million new infections annually , and 34 million people living with hiv/aids who require treatment to stay alive . there is a widespread misperception in the developed world that we have already won the battle against hiv/aids . in reality , the crisis has simply become less visible . sub-saharan africa has 10 % of the world ’s population , but is home to 70 % of those living with hiv/aids . across africa , the disease is estimated to have reduced average national growth rates by 2-4 percentage points per year .
leaving the single market would create grave uncertainty for the british economy , especially its financial sector . even the us has said it is reluctant to negotiate a separate free-trade deal with the uk . remaining in the single market , however , comes at a cost – one that british voters may not support . the uk would have to adopt the sort of satellite status that norway , iceland , and liechtenstein now have , accepting and implementing decisions that it takes no part in shaping . if that democratic deficit is unacceptable to the uk , it will be left alone , out of the economic cold .
as the curtain drops , two developments will profoundly influence the withdrawal process and ultimate outcomes . the first is the management of the afghan transition to control , which depends on an orderly withdrawal of american and nato forces by 2014 . the second is the 2014 election , also to be held , of a new afghan president – a process that needs to permit the united states and its nato allies to claim plausibly that they are handing the country over to a legitimate government . for afghanistan , ravaged by war without respite since the 1978 “ saur revolution , ” the endgame will be even more nerve-wracking . as america ’s military leaves , it will enter another period of political and strategic uncertainty , after almost a half-century of disorder and civil war .
new york – watching a sophisticated democratic society knowingly walking into a predictable and avoidable national catastrophe is a rare and alarming experience . most british politicians are well aware that leaving the european union with no post-brexit relationship will cause enormous damage to their country . they are not sleepwalking into the abyss ; their eyes are wide open . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
this is no longer an option . in fact , even if the us were not attempting to normalize relations , russia ’s current economic woes probably would have doomed its long-standing – and already much-diminished – support for the castro administration . normalization of relations with the us is key to liberalization in cuba . after all , such changes are best served not by imposing stifling sanctions , or through military “ shock and awe ” tactics , as in iraq , but by socioeconomic improvement and diplomatic engagement by outside powers . indeed , predictions that cuba might now shift toward a chinese-style model of political autocracy and economic opening may be accurate only in the short term .
much political activity has been directly or indirectly focused on exchange rates in recent years , in ways that imply new economic and political divisions . though countries have not descended fully into protectionism since the global financial crisis began , difficult economic and labor-market conditions in key countries may force policymakers to protect domestic markets while trying to gain external competitiveness . but , while vigilance is on the front , the chance that major countries will embrace competitive devaluations – initiating genuine currency wars in the process – is slim . it is well known that weidmann does not like it when central banks , especially the european central bank , buy sovereign bonds . but claiming that unconventional monetary-policy measures would carry the risk of a “ much stronger politicizing of exchange rates ” misses the mark .
the census bureau projects that the american population will grow 49 % over the next four decades . today , the us is the world ’s third most populous country ; 50 years from now it is still likely to be third ( after only china and india ) . not only is immigration relevant to economic power ; given that almost all developed countries are aging and face a burden of providing for older generations , it could help to reduce the policy problem ’s sharpness . moreover , even though studies suggest that the short-term , directly measurable economic benefits at the national level are relatively small , and unskilled workers may suffer from competition , skilled immigrants can be important to particular economic sectors . a 1 % increase in immigrant college graduates leads to a 6 % increase in patents per capita .
in fact , only two of the six major economic tasks identified by the work conference fit neatly with the third plenum ’s strategic agenda . the call for enhanced social security is consistent with the third plenum ’s proposal to allocate 30 % of state-owned enterprises ’ profits to fund safety-net programs , such as pensions and health care . likewise , the emphasis on markets ’ “ decisive role ” in upgrading china ’s industrial structure and eliminating excess capacity is compatible with the third plenum ’s goal of achieving a market-based shift toward a consumer society . but what emerges from all this is yet another example of the timeworn “ kitchen sink ” approach to chinese economic policymaking – countless proposals , initiatives , and goals that are loosely connected at best , and that are often plagued by internal inconsistencies . a new approach is needed , and it will require three key changes in china ’s economic-policy framework .
the essential economic reality confronting the ecb today is that the american economy is falling headlong into a severe slump – bernanke ’s surprise cut speaks volumes to this . it defies economic logic to think that the global economy – including europe – will escape its consequences . as european growth slows , so will inflationary pressures . so trichet should relax , stop threatening others . even with sticky wages and prices in europe , the global slowdown will reduce energy , commodity , and food prices on world markets , all of which are important factors behind currently elevated european inflation levels .
all the major players in russia ’s energy-centric economy quickly fell into line politically , enabling putin to use the country ’s oil and gas exports as a geopolitical cudgel . eu countries that he could not intimidate militarily , owing to nato , were wooed with discounts – or punished with price hikes . hungarian prime minister victor orbán is putin ’s staunchest friend in europe ( though greek prime minister alexis tsipras seems to want to change that ) , while poland ’s leaders have consistently warned that russia could become a threat to the continent once again . as a result , while hungary pays gazprom $ 260 per thousand cubic meters of gas , poland pays $ 526 – the eu ’s highest price . poles have paid steep prices .
but , though accusations of biopiracy may have emotional appeal , impartial analyses have shown that they have little factual basis . in fact , biopiracy is rare – so rare that it can be dealt with directly . instead , the world has created baroque , a bureaucratic , politicized system that systematically inhibits scientific research , plant breeding , and intellectual property creation . the seed treaty achieves this by establishing a multilateral system for access to a negotiated list of agricultural genetic resources . the seed treaty has also brought under the control of its parties and secretariat the 15 research institutions that comprise the consultative group of international agricultural research ( cgiar ) , an influential global research partnership .
he has also reduced resources channeled to certain religious institutions , helped those in his circle to establish private banks by easing regulations , and challenged iran ’s most powerful economic and military institution , the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) . but , as the rift between khamenei and ahmadinejad has grown , support for the president has declined significantly , with even state-run media referring to ahmadinejad ’s loyalists as a “ deviation circle . ” moreover , unlike during ahmadinejad ’s first term , non-state media now publicly criticize his economic and political agenda . with ahmadinejad ’s second and final term fast approaching , it seems unlikely that the disgraced , unpopular president will abandon his efforts to destabilize iran ’s ruling establishment . in fact , he has long promoted mashai as his successor , but khamenei has curtailed his illegal efforts – and has now put a stop to mashai ’s candidacy entirely .
under monti ’s leadership , reforms were finally initiated , and markets were calmed . to enhance the credibility of italy ’s public finances , monti ’s government dramatically increased taxes , particularly on real estate , while preserving an already record-high income-tax rate . the tax plan highlighted that italy , like japan , is a country of public debt and private wealth . as the economist marco fortis points out , italian family wealth remains , if not for long , second to none in europe . beyond growing international credibility , two major changes to the italian political landscape have shaped the election campaign .
one of the hardest lessons for senior government officials to learn – including me , when i was australian attorney general and foreign minister – is futility , in all but a tiny minority of cases , attempting to prosecute and punish those responsible for leaks . it does not undo the original damage , and usually compounds it with further publicity . the media are never more enthusiastic about free speech than when they see it reddening the faces , rage or humiliation , of those in power . prosecution usually boosts the stature of leakers , making it useless as a deterrent . but some lines need to be drawn if good government is to be possible , just as a zone of privacy in our personal and family lives is crucial to sustaining relationships that matter most to us .
clearly , there is no form of brexit – or post-brexit britain – that will satisfy both groups . this explains may ’s desperation to push brexit through as quickly as possible . she wants to get out before voters realize that the leave campaign sold them a false bill of goods , including the promise that they could keep all of the benefits of eu membership , particularly full access to the european single market , without having to allow free movement of labor . moreover , while may was in the “ remain ” camp during the referendum campaign , she realizes that , as prime minister , she will be held accountable for any brexit brexit negotiations . she also knows that she can not possibly succeed politically , because the media will always spotlight “ defeats , ” while hardly noticing “ wins . ”
among other things , such surveys should aim to create a clear picture of adolescents ’ exposure to avoidable risk factors , such as alcohol and illicit drug use , unsafe sexual behaviors , violence , obesity , physical inactivity , and unhealthy diets . to complement this effort , we must also invest in improving our understanding of how these risk factors – most often studied in connection with early childhood and adulthood – affect adolescents ’ health . according to a global disease burden study , health risk factors explain at least 50 % of adults ’ early deaths and disability rates , from 50 % to over ; for young people , the figure drops to 26 % . more studies are needed to inform health policy and planning adequately . data-collection efforts should also include a focus on mental health .
pakistan these days is a troubled country , politically as well as economically . but talk of regime change may have prompted musharraf to re-enter politics . only a politician with the backing of major constituencies can hope to restore political order and economic health , and musharraf is presenting himself as a candidate whom the military might support . thus , in a long interview with the bbc before launching his new party , musharraf suggested that pakistan ’s army was the only institution that could save the country from its current woes . “ there is a sense of despondency in pakistan . ”
with politicians effectively rewarded for myopic thinking , western democracies find themselves struggling to secure stable long-term growth in a way that , say , authoritarian china is not . there are at least two ways to address this problem in a democratic context . first , governments could be more firmly bound to make their predecessors ’ policy choices . that way , more forward-thinking legislation that has been debated and enacted will have time to take effect , without the risk that it will simply be repealed by subsequent administrations . the european union provides one example of how long-term binding commitments can work .
this begins with political will and setting priorities . at the wef in incheon , nobel peace prize laureate kailash satyarthi called for a mass popular movement demanding that education be placed prominently on every politician ’s agenda run for election , at all levels of government . for the sdgs to be operational , education has to receive higher billing , nationally , and globally . the incheon declaration calls for allocating at least 15-20 % of total public expenditure to education . moreover , the ongoing decline in education aid must be reversed , with new sources of finance – such as emerging-economy donors , the private sector , foundations , and philanthropists – mobilized .
ukraine ’s current refinance rate is 16 % per year , 10 % less than inflation , which means that ukraine has a negative real interest rate of 10 % per year . as a result , ukraine ’s money supply , m3 , exploded by no less than 52 % in the last year , which points to inflation hitting 30 % early on . the nbu ’s leadership understands that it must act to contain inflation , but its insistence on the dollar peg ties its hands because it prevents them from raising interest rates sufficiently . instead , they have reverted to strict reserve requirements , effectively rationing credit , and thus causing a domestic credit squeeze in the midst of the current international financial crisis , which is likely to force some medium-sized banks into bankruptcy , owing to liquidity problems . rationing is always worse than markets .
the first concerns iranian domestic politics and the ongoing power struggle within the regime – and the struggle that scuttled a diplomatic solution once before , because neither conservatives nor reformers were willing to afford president mahmoud ahmadinejad a diplomatic triumph . one can only hope that , given the seriousness of the situation , this route to failure will be closed off . developments in syria , iran ’s last remaining ally in the region , are just as likely to play a role . the fall of president bashar al-assad ’s regime would amount to a strategic debacle for iran , which would then confront the united front of arab states , backed by turkey , the us , and , in some ways , by israel . iran would then find it difficult to maintain its foothold in lebanon , and its position would become more complicated even in iraq , despite its shia majority .
the eu ’s approach to sharing power , hammering out agreements , and resolving conflict by multiple committees can be frustrating and lacking drama , but it is increasingly relevant for many issues in a networked and interdependent world . as mark leonard , director of the european council on foreign relations , put it , “ the conventional wisdom is that europe ’s hour has come and gone . its lack of vision , divisions , obsession with legal frameworks , unwillingness to project military power , and sclerotic economics contrasts more effectively with the united states than rome … . but the problem is not europe – our outdated understanding of power . ” the american political scientist andrew moravcsik makes the same argument that european nations , singly and collectively , are the only states other than the us that are capable of “ exert global influence across the full spectrum from ‘ hard ’ to ‘ soft ’ power . insofar as the term retains any meaning , the world is bipolar , and is likely to remain so over the foreseeable future . ”
tehran – iranians will go to the polls on june 12 to elect a new president . while some argue that president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s re-election is a foregone conclusion , the outcome is , in fact , not at all . iran ’s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , has repeatedly said in public settings that he will not declare his preference among the candidates . indeed , in mashad on march 21 , ayatollah khamenei said that “ there are some rumors that i support a special presidential candidate . but i have one vote , and i would not determine a certain candidate , because the people themselves should choose their candidates based on their own knowledge . ”
but this will be offset by limits on personal tax deductions and exclusions , and lower personal income-tax rates will boost taxable incomes as individuals raise earnings and compensation shifts from fringe benefits to taxable cash . likewise , moving to a territorial tax system will raise taxable earnings , especially in the short term , because companies repatriate some of overseas funds ’ existing stock . although the net tax changes can widen the budget deficit in the short term , the incentive effects of lower tax rates and increased capital accumulation will mean faster economic growth and higher real incomes , both of which will cause rising taxable incomes and lower long-term deficits . there is an important legislative reason why the projected budget will return to surplus . the republicans have only a very small majority in the senate , where filibuster rule requires three-fifths majority passing legislation , giving democrats the ability to block the republican tax agenda .
the eu must also revitalize its operation sophia initiative to combat refugee smuggling in the mediterranean . second , europe needs to handle economic migrants and asylum-seekers separately . combining them has brought its asylum system close to collapse ; separating them would help to ensure that those in fear of their lives can be given fair hearing where their rights are protected . addressing genuine economic and social needs in the eu requires effective blue – or green-card policies for economic migrants with an overall immigration target . and policymakers must not wait until the next migration crisis , before introducing such a scheme .
will the fed ’s gradual reduction of qe bring about more emerging-market problems this year ? to what extent are conditions comparable to those that triggered the 1997 asian crisis or other abrupt capital-flow reversals in recent decades ? emerging-market bulls point out that most major middle-income countries have substantially lowered their public debt/gdp ratios , giving them fiscal space that they lacked in the past . but neither the mexican “ tequila crisis ” of 1994 nor the 1997 asian crisis stemmed from large public deficits . in both cases , the attempt to defend a fixed exchange rate in the face of capital-flow reversals was a major factor , as was true in turkey in the year prior to its currency collapse in february 2001 .
already , many people in their fifties and sixties would like to remain economically productive , perhaps working 20-30 hours per week . at the same time , younger people long longer for education , leisure , friends , and , crucially , children . both desires can be fulfilled if societies allow older people to work more years , allowing everyone to work fewer hours . one option is to move toward an average workweek of 25 hours and an average working life that extends to age 70 – and even higher ages if healthy life expectancy continues to rise . such a reform could be implemented over a few decades without slowing economic growth or reducing prosperity .
it is that commitment by which the government is now bound to be . “ bouncing ” britain in is simply impossible . british public opinion is now so hostile , to the eu in general , and to europe in particular , that a referendum could not be won without a massive government campaign of persuasion . denmark ’s government has done just that , and it seems to be bringing the danish public around to the idea of joining the euro . prime minister tony blair is apparently convinced of the strategic desirability of joining the euro , but because a yes vote in a referendum now looks so implausible that he is unlikely to try .
the middle of scenarios considered by the intergovernmental panel on climate change projects that atmospheric co2 concentrations will reach almost three times their pre-industrial level in 2100 . while the bush administration remains skeptical of science behind such projections , some state and local governments are enacting measures to cut co2 emissions . more important , companies like general electric are committing to green goals that go well beyond government regulation . a recent report by the bipartisan national energy policy commission exemplifies the new coalition . while president bush argues that technological advances in hydrogen fuels and fuel cells will curb long-term oil imports , such measures require major changes in transportation infrastructure that will require decades to complete .
people in these fields ultimately buy and sell corporate managers as much as people in the tech fields . hardly anyone makes all this all the way to the top in the business world . the important point for students to bear in mind is that they should motivate themselves to achieve deep understanding , rather than rote memorization , of subjects they study to fulfill the role of true expert in whatever field they ultimately choose to pursue . at the same time , they should invest in acquiring communication skills that will be similarly crucial to successful careers . achieving this kind of education probably means pursuing what one naturally finds interesting and engaging , whether that is finance or physiology .
but this day is also about spreading the message on behalf of elizabeth and other women like her : abortion , while in many countries a political wedge issue , is simply a fact of life . each year , 25 % of all pregnancies – some 56 million – expire . abortion occurs in every country , and within every socioeconomic class . in the united states , 61 % of abortion patients are in their twenties , 59 % are already mothers , and nearly two-thirds identify with organized religion . but abortion is most common in developing countries , where access to family-planning services is often limited .
the ecb should not delude itself to think that a small increase in interest rates will be enough . if and when wage pressure comes , the ecb , to remain true to its word , may be forced to raise interest rates far more than it now expects . the second argument is that if the ecb stands firm , workers will not demand higher nominal wages , for they will understand that this would only lead to higher interest rates and higher unemployment . this argument is irrelevant ; monetary policy probably has some effect on wage bargaining . but one should not expect too much from a tough ecb stance .
megaupload allowed its 180 million registered users to upload and download movies , television shows , and music , and some of the money earned by dotcom ( from advertising and subscriptions ) was on display at his mansion near auckland , where he kept his rolls-royce and other exotic cars . dotcom ’s lawyer claims that megaupload was merely providing storage for its subscribers ’ files , and had no control over what they store . but megaupload offered cash rewards to users who uploaded files that proved popular with other users . last month , the united states considered legislation aimed at stopping internet piracy . bills were written at urging hollywood studios and publishing and recording industries , which argue that violations of copyright on the internet cost america 100,000 jobs .
moscow – when the beijing olympic games ’ opening ceremony begins in a few days , viewers will be presented with minutely choreographed spectacle swathes in nationalist kitsch . of course , images that recall hitler ’s goose-stepping storm troopers are just the latest thing that china ’s leaders have in mind for their olympics ; after all , official chinese nationalism proclaims the country ’s “ peaceful rise ” within an idyll of “ harmonious development . ” but , both aesthetically and politically , the parallels are hardly far-fetched . indeed , by electing albert speer jr. , hitler ’s favorite architect and designer of the 1936 berlin olympics , to design a master plan for the beijing games , china ’s government has itself alluded to the radical politicization of aesthetics that was a hallmark of twentieth-century totalitarianism . like those regimes , whether fascist or communist , china ’s leaders have sought to transform public space and sporting events into visible proof of fitness and mandates to govern .
if anything , economists ’ embrace of that role has grown stronger ever since . but it has also made the subject less relevant and diminished its legitimacy and credibility . economists are no longer seen by much of the public to question the right questions , or to seek to answer them with integrity . to recover credibility , economics needs to become more open to criticism of assumptions , methods , and results . inconvenient truths spoken by dissenting voices can not be ignored indefinitely .
the united states is reckoning with a psychologically unstable president , plutocratic cabinet , and a republican congressional majority . europe is in the throes of multiple economic , social , political , and institutional crises . by contrast , china is dynamic and outward-looking – providing good reason for the eu to assume vigorous leadership and engage in constructive partnerships with china on key initiatives ( such as sustainable infrastructure across eurasia ) . in short , this is a critical time for germany and europe to provide vision , stability , and global leadership . and that imperative extends to chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the spd .
in keeping with china ’s recent efforts to project its “ soft side , ” the opening ceremony produced the idea of a historic but dynamic culture at its best . other than the presence of a few people ’s liberation army soldiers , you would have been hard pressed to find any visible evidence of the reigning communist regime or its founder , mao zedong . equally significant was china ’s projection as the nascent leader of the new international cultural order . the “ bird nest ” stadium was the creation of the herzog & de meuron ’s multinational design team , with proposals from the visual artist ai weiwei . many artists involved in creating spectacle , including the fireworks specialist cai keqiang , france star shen wei , and the composer tan dun , earned their fame primarily in the west .
my research , which included thousands of interviews with women from india to burkina faso , centered on one question : how can the international community improve the well-being of the world ’s poorest women ? the answer , it turns out , is to help them do what they already do on their own . one of the most effective ways to empower women anywhere , but especially in the developing world is by promoting financial independence . in many areas , that means supporting “ informal savings groups , ” networks of like-minded women who pay dues to build a shared pool of resources . this money can then be drawn to fund any number of items , such as small business expenses , school fees , or health-care costs .
so the summit ’s outcome was far from a miracle . what really mattered in heiligendamm was not the decisions taken by any putative world government , but the fact that the g8 days now seem numbered . politically and economically , china and india are more important today than some european g8 members . indeed , europeans should understand that this viewpoint is spreading around the world , particularly on the other side of the atlantic . president putin ’s behavior at the summit has clearly demonstrated what he thinks about europeans ; not too much .
african leaders are right to be concerned . though the eu claims that the epas will buttress the afcfta , preliminary research indicates that the epas trade gains brought by the epas are likely to be concentrated on a few agricultural products – and to exclude the least-developed countries . in most areas , the epas will actually hurt intra-african trade , weaken trade revenues , and undermine trade-driven industrialization in africa . some argue that the problem is more about timing , because the losses are likely to materialize immediately , and the potential benefits brought by increased eu access will take longer to emerge . given this , epa proponents argue , a special fund should be established to compensate for some of the short-term losses .
in 1995 , for example , the smithsonian institution in washington sought to take a fresh look at the enola gay , an airplane that dropped the atomic bomb on hiroshima . john dower , the american historian and specialist of modern japan , studied the issue at length . he demonstrated how history can be presented and valued in totally different ways : from an american or japanese perspective , even though no one makes up facts or falsifying sources . selection and combination of data is enough . for the americans , there was “ a heroic or triumphant account , in which atomic bombs represent the final blow against an aggressive , fanatic , and savage enemy . ”
it would have to cobbled together at the october 17 european council meeting , where european leaders are growing increasingly frustrated with the entire process . moreover , johnson has already disbanded the civil-service team that led previous negotiations . any new deal will be may ’s old deal with a few bells and whistles . it will push the real issues down the road rather than an end to the brexit debate . that show has years to run .
likewise , our inability to come together to stop syrian president bashar al-assad ’s war crimes against his own people has left the void that putin and iran have filled . european leaders too often shout from the sidelines when they should be on the field , acting to defend common european interests . and , as if our failure to ensure stability in our own neighborhood was not enough , we have also allowed right-wing populist and nationalist movements to take off within the european union itself . these movements , actively fomented by russia , have produced homegrown political leaders who frighteningly – but not surprisingly – resemble putin and erdoğan . poland ’s de facto leader , jarosław kaczyński , and hungarian prime minister viktor orbán , especially in the eu , have busily constructing illiberal states within the eu .
a common framework must also be created to scaled up such programs and implement in different contexts . delivering benefits “ points , ” for example , rather than money denominated in a particular currency would enable regimes to operate across borders at a time when workers increasingly need to do the same . and standardized educational credentials would retain value as they move with those who earned them . as the nature of work changes , so must the nature of beneficial systems . to deliver opportunities and security to everyone everywhere , at a time of widespread technological disruption , governments and private-sector actors must work together to advance innovative solutions that meet the urgent and evolving needs of workers .
moreover , even without a timely correction , brazil will respond to crises in a far different way to mexico . rightly or wrongly , mexican policymakers were in awe of wall street ; brazil has no such hang up . ultimately , brazilian policymakers are concerned with their own well , not with foreign investors ’ prosperity . if and when the two sides , brazilian policymakers will shed few tears for international investors . on the surface and below , brazil has turned a dramatic turn : inflation is down to negligible levels .
by incorporating carbon-reduction strategies into agriculture and land conservation , more heat-trapping gases can be locked in forests and soils . but while techniques already exist , success will require increasing the use of no-till farming , adopting permaculture principles , better management wetlands , and using rotational grazing techniques , among other measures . the power of markets to drive radical changes in energy and land use is great , but , as the 2017 storms season should remind us , the climate emergency we face requires vigorous and urgent action . transforming how people acquire and consume energy , and using land will require strong incentives and policy frameworks to set the course for success . but do not despair : there is still time to save our climate .
many democratic candidates have called for a major expansion of government-funded health care . but their proposals – the single-payer system ( medicare for all ” ) , the national health service , or something else – do not all mean the same thing . several contenders – including bernie sanders , elizabeth warren , kamala harris , and beto o’rourke – disagree entirely on the details of such schemes , or simply have not spelled them out . but after former president barack obama attempted to fix the american health-care disaster with halfway measures – arguably the most politically feasible at the time – those vying for the democratic nomination have clearly more ambitious plans . meanwhile , warren has proposed introducing universal childcare , funded by a wealth tax on fortunes above $ 50 million .
but there is another explanation , one that is fully consistent with rationality and self-interest . when mainstream politicians lose credibility , it is natural for voters to discount the promises they make . voters are more likely to be attracted to anti-establishment candidates , and can safely be expected to depart from prevailing policies . in the language of economists , centrist politicians face a problem of asymmetric information . they argue that reformers , but why should voters believe leaders who appear no different from previous crop politicians , who oversold them the gains from globalization and the “ free ” their grievances ?
today , leaders in rwanda , widely considered an african success story , have improved stability by moving away from the washington consensus approach to governance . politically , rwanda is strong , disciplined , and organized . president paul kagame ’s landslide reelection last year had more to do with power than democracy . although kagame remains popular , his government was criticized for stifling free speech and human rights in the run-up to the vote . the conclusion i draw is not that human rights do not matter , but that political discipline and imperfect forms of democracy are acceptable if the tradeoff is sustained progress in economic and institutional governance .
cross-border flows of goods , information , people , and capital that are its lifeblood rely on a safety threshold , stability , and predictability . it is this threshold that seems under threat . continued economic progress in the developing world and recovery in the developed world requires preventing local and regional conflict from delivering large systemic shocks . in terms of priorities , g-20 governments are arguably more important to strengthen core systems that enable global flows than they are to address strictly economic issues . moreover , there is a clear , shared interest in doing so : no one benefits from expanding systemic risk .
washington , dc – participants in occupy wall street movements are right to argue that big banks have never been properly investigated for the mortgage “ aggregation , aggregation , and securitization ” behavior that was central to the financial crisis – and to the loss of more than eight million jobs . but , thanks to the efforts of new york attorney general eric schneiderman and others , serious discussion has begun in the united states about an out-court mortgage settlement between state attorney general and prominent financial-sector firms . talks among state officials , the obama administration , and the banks are currently focused on reported abuses in servicing mortgages , foreclosing on homes , and evicting their residents . but leading banks are also accused of illegal behavior – inducing people to borrow , for example , by deceiving them about the interest rate that would actually be paid , while misrepresenting the resulting mortgage-backed securities to investors . if these charges are true , bank executives involved may fear that civil lawsuits would uncover evidence that could be used in criminal prosecutions .
“ over rivers and down highways , and along countless jungle paths , east pakistan ’s population continues to hemorrhage into india : endless unorganized flows of refugees with a few tin kettles , cardboard boxes , and ragged clothes piled on their heads , carrying out their sick children and old . they pad along barefooted , with mud sucking at their heels in wet parts . they are silent , except for a child whimpering now and then , but their faces tell the story . many are sick and covered with sores . others have cholera , and when they die by the roadside there is no one to bury them . ”
charges of currency manipulation and protectionist threats have intensified . with the uk giving the world free trade in the 1840s now deciding to go it alone , the old atlantic charter allies are placing national sovereignty ahead of global public goods . now the global spotlight has turned to france and its looming presidential election . at stake is the sputtering franco-german engine that has fueled european integration and kept it at the heart of the post-war multilateral system . a victory for le pen in early may would spell the end of the eu , leaving german chancellor angela merkel as the final pillar of the crumbling world order .
new york – when i was a bright-eyed eighth grader in my native sri lanka , i could not wait for my first sex education class . in our early teens , my classmates and i were as curious as we were clueless about sex and sexuality . yet , instead of receiving reliable answers to pressing questions about our bodies , relationships , and sexuality , we were simply handed a book , told to read a particular chapter , leaving to figure things out on our own . millions of young people around the world have similar experiences , often with serious adverse consequences . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . regardless of how facebook ’s own digital-currency moonshot , libra , fares , it has already provided a wake-up call for firms and policymakers around the world . “ if revolution there is to be , let us rather commit it than undergo it , ” otto von bismarck once said .
four decades after the “ nixon shock , ” no one disputes that china has benefited enormously today , the impoverished and autarkic country that nixon visited is history . global reintegration has turned china into an economic powerhouse . it is the world ’s largest exporter in volume . china ’s presence is feeling around the world , from mines in africa to apple stores in the united states . as we reflect on china ’s remarkable progress since 1972 , it is also an opportune time to consider how china continues to fall short in overcoming systemic impediments to long-term success .
a significant chinese slowdown may already be unfolding . us president donald trump ’s trade war has shaken confidence , but this is merely a downward shove to an economy that has already been slowing as it makes the shift from export-led – and investment-led growth to more sustainable domestic consumption-led growth . how much the chinese economy will slow is an open question ; but , given the inherent contradiction between an increasingly centralized party-led political system and the need for a more decentralized consumer-led economic system , long-term growth could fall quite dramatically . unfortunately , the option of avoiding a consumer-led transition and continuing to promote exports and real-estate investment is not very attractive , either . china is already a dominant global exporter , and there is neither market space nor political tolerance to allow it to maintain its previous pace of export-led expansion .
the arab world faces serious problems that can be met only with more flexible , democratic political systems . the second arab human development report , issued in 2003 , underscores the close relationship between the arab world ’s educational shortcomings and its lack of democracy . democracy requires an informed citizenry able to question its government . a well-educated citizenry is also essential if young men and women are to acquire the skills needed to perform the kinds of jobs that today ’s global and competitive world demands . alas , instead of progress , what we see is a cycle of inadequate educational opportunity , leading to a lack of economic opportunity .
the president threatened to destroy turkey ’s economy if it does what it enabled to do . with the kurds – most of them civilians – fleeing turkish bombs , the un security council has remained typically silent , while europeans have condemned everything and all involved . as foreign-policy disasters go , this is one for record books . but the seeds for this larger conflagration have been sown long before the now-infamous trump-erdoğan call . absent any coherent policy , conditions have been ripe for crisis .
but a “ tobin ” program – a fanciful idea when milton friedman proposed it in 1969 – would also be a radical departure for policymakers , requiring an abundance of prudence about citizen and investor perception , confidence , and solid governance structures . and such an approach would cement the notion that central bank policy is “ the only game in town , ” relieving elected government leaders of their responsibility for pro-growth policies and the fiscal choices they control . a less risky and time-tested route to stimulating demand would be a major increase in debt-financed public infrastructure investment . it is well documented that europe and the united states have underinvested in infrastructure . from a macroeconomic perspective , infrastructure investment is a “ twofer ” – it strengthens productivity and competitiveness in the long run , and where unused capacity is available , boosts demand , output , and employment with a significant multiplier effect in the short run .
with the government losing $ 4.5 billion every year by subsidizing passenger fares , it has little money to spend on upgrading infrastructure , improving safety standards , or speeding up trains . as a result , railways run out of money before they run out of plans . in the last 30 years , only 317 of the 676 projects that parliament has been sanctioned have been completed , and it is difficult to imagine how the railways will acquire the estimated $ 30 billion needed to complete the remaining 359 projects . and if all of this were not bad enough , india ’s leadership seems not to recognize the challenges that railways present . in a country where rail passengers can not even expect a clean toilet , let alone on-time arrival , prime minister narendra modi has spoken of introducing bullet trains – the latest in a string of irrationally grandiose aspirations .
under federalism – whether cooperative or “ uncooperative ” – it is often assumed that state and local governments pursue the same goals . in fact , there is a deep divide between left-leaning “ blue ” cities and right-leaning “ red ” states , where many are located . and there are many ways that state governments can thwart progressive federalism at the municipal level . cities , for their part , often lack the information and resources needed to develop and implement effective policies . a number of organizations have now emerged to strengthen city governments ’ policy-making capacity , including michael bloomberg ’s government innovation program , fuse corps , results for america , social finance , third sector capital partners , and usafacts .
we need to look beyond these figures to determine who is truly responsible for fomenting a political climate where blatant lies and explicit racism and bigotry have entered the mainstream of public discourse . only when we identify the sources of the odious virus now afflicting our democracies can we take practical steps to quarantine them . let ’s start with the “ patient zero ” in this political plague : rupert murdoch . for decades , this impresario of the right-wing political-entertainment complex has coarsened politics in the uk and the us – not to mention his native australia – for profit and political influence . murdoch ’s newspapers and television networks might just as patented a recipe for deceitful , dog-whistle politics that powered trump ’s rise and brexit vote .
