another aspect of the pivot is to move from the middle of the east . but no fancy work , whether pivoted or pivoted , can diminish the importance of this region . the middle east will remain a central pillar of world energy for decades . unlike east asia , the middle east is still a region of turmoil , whose complexity is destroying analytical consensus . is there a lack of peace with the island of the region ?
this deterrence logic causes a snowball effect , and it is not possible to take advantage of it . with russia and the fact that we have 18,000 nuclear weapons in the world , it is impossible to convince any other nuclear states to reduce their own arsenals ( much smaller ) , until the two big ones make further drastic cuts . china shares russia 's concerns about us , about the conventional superiority of missiles and missiles , and is increasing and modernizing its estimated 240-gun stocks . china , who will take this course , india - not the pt , but the 100 weapons of its own - feels the need to add to its arsenal . and pakistan will become even more determined to try to keep up with india .
two centuries later , it was not the case : in the late nineteenth century , the median living standards in britain and other countries , which were spread by the industrial revolution , were first recorded in history , several light-years above the neo-malthusian reference value of life . despite the loss of a large part of national income , which would support corrupt , decadent and profligate aristocracy , there were economic successes in the early industrial-era . despite the tripling of the population , which caused extraordinary malthusian pressure on the economy , which was the basis of natural resources , and , despite the fact that the unprecedented share of national income for nearly a century of intense war against france , the power of three times the population of britain . how exactly did these accomplishments come out of the way , what do you think ? what were the small differences that turned out to be so important to me ?
the referendum 's outcome has had little effect on the wider world , and the impact of institutions in eu is just another crisis that can be managed , not a existential implosion that the british newspaper imagine . it is not in a hurry to act , and chancellor anela merkel is not in a hurry ( although , as the next year , the french president , franois hollande , is increasingly desperate , says , is now being held ) . who is as tight as cameron was open ( if empty ) , has already created an institutional skeleton of political strategy . her government has created a department of international trade that will be responsible for the development of trade arrangements with the eu and the rest of the world ( the european commission has previously dealt with such arrangements ) . another new department , so-called " brexit ministry , " will be in charge of political , judicial and constitutional negotiations .
venezuela tried to finance the chinese bank 's help , which did not impose conditions that would not allow her to be basiled . instead , the cdb is classified for use that are undisclosed and corrupt , and with built-in privileges for chinese companies in areas such as telecommunications ( huawei ) , equipment ( hier ) , cars ( chery ) and drilling of oil ( ictv ) . the chinese did not need venezuela to do anything to increase the likelihood of getting credit . they only demand more oil as collateral , but they do n't want to lose it . whatever the imf 's fault , the cdb is a disgrace to you .
one television commercial said it was all about the non-rent cynicism of the tea campaign . it contained two clips of obama 's statement : " i 've worked with senator lugar 's republicans to pass the law , " and , " what i 've done to senator lugar . " it was n't explained by the context , but what obama said was : " i 've worked with senator lugar republicans to pass the law that will secure and destroy the most dangerous and unguarded weapons in the world , " and " i 've reached out to senator lugar , the republicans , to help to close the nuclear weapons . " with the defeat of luke and the current departure of the last republicans , such as senator olympia snowing maine , who were prepared to defend national interests before the party , the senate is unlikely to produce 60 votes needed to strengthen further control of the russian weapons . moreover , a comprehensive nuclear test ban , which would replace a fragile moratorium , can not be concluded without us being ratified .
he may be imprisoned for helping the terrorists , but his betrayal does not give him much resistance . security states tend to forget about treason , and they do n't know what kind of betrayal they are . the uncertain states are faster to recognize the acts of betrayal , and they are not capable of doing so . the soviets , with their fragile legitimacy , were always afraid of betrayal , and they did not want to be able to defend themselves . they called their crime , imena rodine - betrayal of motherland - and married this high moral language to minor offences , such as illegal leaving the country .
but there is no comparable protest against the use of antipsychotic drugs that have been similarly imposed on humans - and even tortured prisoners . and , while few people are now being involuntarily protected , and in all cases , they seek consent , a large and growing number of drugs are obtained under false pretensions , including children , vulnerable adults , patients with aladic and other people who have shortened their lives , without trying to find their consent . although the opponents believe it causes brain damage , it is difficult to prove it . antipsychotic drugs , antidepressants and tranquilizers . however , the ect rarely causes clear clinical evidence of brain damage and has not been shown in animal studies , but antipsychotic drugs are regularly administered in the form of tardive dyskinesia and other syndromes .
the new york - trade negotiators in the singapore have recently failed to conclude a deal with the long-term expected trans-pacific partnership ; they will soon have a chance to complete the world 's largest regional free-trade agreement . but given the serious concerns that tpp will not consider important implications for human rights , it is not a reason to celebrate . the talks of tpp include united states , canada and ten other pacific countries , which together produce approximately $ 26 billion each year , or 40 % of the total amount of total allowable waste . their economic clout is consistent with their ambitions ; the talks go beyond the traditional trade issues , which take into account only five of the 29 proposed chapters , and consider a range of investments and regulatory issues that affect many millions of people - and not always positively . whether trade liberalization is generally beneficial or harming the most vulnerable is a complex issue .
the interesting thing about open education is that the free access is just the beginning . open education promises to transform the current production pipeline into a vast dynamic ecosystem of knowledge that is constantly evolving , using , using , reusing and improving . open educational promises to provide children with educational materials tailored to their needs , unlike today 's materials " off the shelf , " and faster feedback loops , which are more direct to learning outcomes with the development of content and improvement . and open education promises new approaches to collaborative learning that will make social interaction among students and teachers around the world . last year , we joined the delegates from around the world to reach consensus on the ideals and approaches of open education , and we took them to the open school in the cape city , which was officially released at january 22 .
what , according to his view , is the boundaries of our engagement with the two of us ? under what conditions would we be able to use the ability to use the device ? nearly 70 years ago , george orwell examined the tendency to make clear , and he explained simply that " political speech and writing are largely a defense of indefensible . " in other words , it is necessary to keep a misty language in order to obscure unsavoury realities . massive violence against civilian population is " pacification , " and ethnic cleansing is a " transfer of people . "
brussels - for many people in the west , china seems to have gone from a country that " has a cool head and has a low profile " in the form of deng xiaoping , which loves a good international boost . the fact that the executive director of australian mining is ten years behind bars , pushing out the google , keeping the euro union in the bay for a significant dialogue , and letting the midlevel official wave his finger at us , president barack obama , at the top of the climate summit in the copenama , is not the best way to convince partners about your constructive intentions . nor does it reassure you that china has consistently reduced sanctions on iran , investing in offensive military systems and pillorying western leaders for irresponsible financial policy and protectionism . but the point is that the reciting of this litany is not to highlight china 's wayward behavior , since it is to prove the dilemma in which the country is : if it acts like a " normal " power , the world will forget the number of millions of people who still need to be eliminated from poverty . the chinese leadership seems to know about this dilemma , and it is not really eager to drag him into fierce competition with the west or his neighbors .
if this continues , europe will lose its influence on world affairs and become irrelevant . fortunately , the experience of the 1980s suggests a way to go forward , but it is not so far away . the international situation was not as dangerous as it was today . yet we have succeeded in improving it - not just normalizing relations , but ending the cold war confrontation . this was achieved primarily by dialogue , which was the subject of which the commission had decided .
these factors help explain why the digital economy has caused large companies that are less needed for labor . and once these companies are established and dominant , the new economy will allow them to pursue anti-competitive measures that prevent competitors from being able to compete with their position . and as economists david david dorn , lawrence fkatz , christina patterson and john van reenen show , we also saw the biggest decline in labor income . this increased concentration of the market is expanding the gap between businesses that own robots ( capital ) and workers who replace robots ( work ) . but if we face it , we will have to reinvent antitrust in the digital age .
and who do we have to thank for all the progress made by the european union ? do we owe it to the wisdom of europe 's political leaders , especially for the wise few merkozy and french president nicolas sarkozy ? unfortunately , progress has been almost exclusively caused by the pressure of the much-maligned financial markets . as well as former italian prime minister silk berlusconi , he did not bring down political opponents , but he was a markets , not the european leaders , who opened the door to the euro fiscal union and political union . that 's not a reason for the party , but a reason why you 're not celebrating .
and if we lose more currencies than we have , the resulting impact of the industry in the production sector could slow the us economy , undermining import demand , and thus damage the word exporters . forecasts of economic growth have been significantly reduced since the federal reserve 's interest rate increase in carbon . the decline in equity markets and declining bond yields in the january 2016 period illustrate the global nature of the problem we face . demand is still being reduced by the overhang of debt accumulated before 2008 . this debt has not been cancelled since the year 2008 , but has simply been transferred between sectors and countries .
paris - president donald trump has shaken the transatlantic alliance that has been unshakable for a long time . in a january interview , he called nato " obsolete " and the european union union as a " vehicle for german . " he predicted that the place would soon collapse , and a series of countries would follow the united kingdom . the united states , as he suggests , would be more than enough . with trump , the world is getting used to shocking declarations and unshakable reversals .
those who survived were only so short , and the production was significantly reduced mainly to the ex-soviet market . russia has the know-how , the technical and natural-resource base , which will become a global competitor of many high-tech industries , including nuclear energy , commercial air , commercial space technology ( including satellites and gps ) , the technology and equipment for the production of ice technology , the electric vehicles , the high-speed rail , the petrochemical , and the heavy equipment for mining and hydrocarbon sectors . all of these sectors will benefit from the potential for huge growth in demand in large markets such as china , africa and india . but long-term growth , which is the basis of the high-tech industry , requires a business environment that promotes private investment , including openness to foreign players . social and political environments must also be beneficial for the development of high-tech labor , which will provide an attractive quality of life , to ensure civil liberties and support for business and creativity .
of course , the situation is not cut and dried , but it is not a problem . the return to public investments is affected by the fact that complementary reforms are not implemented , which differ between countries . and there may be abuse of funds , while spending is being misplaced as investments . however , in the case of low long-term interest rates and short-term aggregate demand ( which means that private sector is not in danger of crowding out ) , it is wrong not to mitigate the tax burden on investments . the right to invest in public finances would likely lead to more private investment .
the main issue of these television programmes is not women 's main role . the character , not gender , is driving the narrative , but the character , not gender . outside of the united states , women have reached the highest level of power . in germany , chancellor anela merkel , who won three general elections , is respected or opposed to her austerity policies , not for sex . the president of argentina fernchner is being attacked for the mismanagement of the economy and we are in banking interest to force debt restructuring to creditors of her country , not because she is a woman .
bernanke emphasized that these two policies are on different paths and will respond to different indicators of economic performance . the federal federal commission for open markets , which includes governors and chairmen of regional federal reserve banks , agreed that federal funds would remain close to zero until unemployment drops to 6.5 % , and that it would be expected to remain there , or even lower . unemployment is now 7.6 % , and it is only slowly falling , and the food is not prepared to increase the federal budget by 2015 . but there are caveats that make this direction clear - and thus uninformed . the feed warns that the rate of federal funds may increase if the projected annual inflation rate is less than 2 % to 2.5 % .
and , with housing , health care and education less accessible than the late 1980 " s , his political program is focused on what needs to be done to improve the human capital of russia - the main problem of holding russia 's economy . according to the prokhorov , russia 's productivity is only 6-10 % , so the economy is struggling even when oil prices are highest . two million educated professionals have recently emigrated from russia , and they have not been able to get out of the country . in the last 20 years , social inequality has grown three times in the last 20 years . russia , as prokhorov concluded , is a feudal society , with putin 's political monopoly and economic mismanagement exacerbating the so-called " natural resource curse , " which is suffering from many countries of oil exports .
it is important that the united states ( ideally , joined by other countries ) be aware that any action to be put in place after 15 years of nuclear weapons , even if not expressly excluded from the contract , can not be tolerated . it is necessary to re-introduce harsh sanctions at the first sign that ian is preparing a breakout after the jcpoa , which is also not excluded from the agreement . we should also be informed that we and its allies would carry out a preventive strike if they seemed to be trying to bring the world into a mess . the world has made a mistake in allowing north korea to pass the threshold for nuclear weapons ; it should not be repeated . meanwhile , there must be a great effort to reassure the concerns of the irish neighbors , and some of them will be tempted to hedge their bets against the potential escape of iran within 15 years by pursuing nuclear programs .
short-term exchange-rate movements are not possible to assess the underlying currency 's strength . longer-term trends in how money is used internationally - especially in terms of value for foreign investors or central banks - are much more important . in the next few weeks , trump 's election will be almost certainly bad for greenback . for starters , the dollar was only fired from the election , as trump promised to put deep tax cuts and ramp spending on crumbling infrastructure and allegedly depleted military . this will increase economic growth in the near term , and interest rates will inevitably increase .
but this happy outlook may be based on one basic assumption : the 29 final deadline for the march will remain unchanged . europe 's leaders could easily neutralize the threat of a breach of a trade agreement , and thus eliminate the need to offer concessions that it demands . to do so , they must understand the way behind which the crazy strategy of indecision and delay can be used . during her political career , she could use procrastination as a winning strategy . as a secretary of the home , she often fought with other ministers by refusing to express her opinion or even appear at meetings before the final decision was taken .
and it is 58th for the quality of institutions , owing to excessive government regulations , opaque corporate governance and instability in policy . finally , productivity in the services sector is only 45 % compared to the average 90 % . the problem is most closely related to finance , real estate , business , and public and state services . outside , south korea is highly exposed to the escalating threat of nuclear weapons in north korea . in recent months , north korea fired several ballistic missiles and carried out a nuclear test .
for smokin , it is not sustainable to live under constitutional democracy while citizens of the country and sukhumi are victims of a devastating war and destruction . the history of colonialism in the western part of europe and japan , slavery in our community , is indicative that , as democratic ideals are based on society , the rights of citizens can not be denied to the colonial subjects of the members or certain groups . so if russia continues to pursue the imperialist line , democracy will be threatened . second , in the immediate vicinity of the imperialism , and in chechnya , it strengthens reactionary forces that oppose liberal democracy . political and military forces that lament the demise of soviet states are fed by resources that are devoted to the expansion of russian influence in non-russian republics .
from the japanese perspective , there was a " victimization " in which " atomic bombs became a symbol of suffering - a symbol of a particular kind of suffering - rather similar to the holocaust of jews . " the role of the victim was used in a hiroshima museum , which also distorts memory . the japanese government is not responsible for the initiation and continuation of the war , nor for the inhumane treatment that prisoners of war or subjects of civilian populations suffer under japanese government . everyone chooses the point of view that will fit him as best he can . whether we identify with heroes or victims , with the pilots of the plane who ended up with wwii or passive people who were subjected to the destruction of the atomic missiles , we are always rooting with " innocent " and " good people . "
the beneficiaries of these measures should be defined as holders of rights to the rights . it is necessary to introduce mechanisms for accountability that allow victims to bear responsibility for their failure to act . this will remove the stigma of charity and it will give rise to the victim . instead of being helped because they do not meet the requirements , they are granted remedies because they violate their rights . the framework should also include an undiscrimination requirement , which would ensure that we focus on the most vulnerable groups - not just the well-connected , literate , and popular regime , but also on groups that can be achieved quickly .
the most important problem to solve is not the massive bilateral trade deficit of america with china . the chinese are stealing our technology and using it to help chinese companies compete with the same companies in china and the world . the chinese do it in two ways , and they do it in two ways . first , we companies that want to trade in china need a chinese partner and share their technology with the company . this mandatory distribution of technology is expressly prohibited by the rules of the world trade organisation .
this fight is in the pits of islam and pluralism against the purification . it is tearing apart countries and regions , forcing people to travel halfway across the world to join jihadi , and threatening to unleash more violence against muslims , as well as against christians , jews , and others . but the battle within the island is not enough or sufficient explanation for the state of anarchy , which we see in a place like south sudan , whose 11 million people have gained independence three years ago . although the latest country has emerged from a fierce civil war between christians and muslims , the referendum has received 99 % support . today , 1.5 million of its citizens have been root , and they have nothing to do with the lam and everything to do with the ethnic struggle to control the country 's resources .
in the case of a troubled asset relief program , which was signed by former president george w. in october 2008 , the program started , which the department of the treasury purchased problematic , largely assets based on mortgages directly on financial institutions . but it turned out to be more complex than originally thought , and within weeks the government simply recapitalized us . the other bad decisions were not so easy to reverse , and they did not make it difficult . the irish government , in the hope of preventing the bank from running , offered a blanket guarantee for all deposits of banks . with this unilateral decision , ireland destabilized the rest of the european union .
the source must be attacked by hatred and other types of illegal content . on the one hand , it is necessary to increase the media literacy of consumers who need to learn from a young age about the real consequences of hate online . on the contrary , the network 's efforts to ensure that the platforms of social media must ensure that their products are designed in a way that promotes responsible use . i do n't know , but it 's not quick to fix it , but it 's not going to be easy . on the contrary , it requires a fundamental reassessment of business models that facilitate and even reward hate speech .
independently of what we think about brandon leaving the place , we can ask two more questions , one general , and one specific question to discuss . first , what extent would democracy citizens be able to make decisions directly in referendum , not through elected representatives ? and , more specifically , should british lawmakers consider themselves bound by the outcome of the referendum 23 june ? the most important argument for direct democracy is that democracy itself is based on the mere feasibility of restrictions . in earlier times , small cities could be direct democracies , but in larger countries , when communication was slow , representatives had to be elected to decide on many issues that needed to be discussed and voted on .
they consider the application for a reverse pass as a vehicle manufacturer would consider the engine 's defective engine application . a large coalition of technological companies and civil society organizations recently sent a letter to president barack obama , who was arguing with the backdoor . in addition to " undermining all american cyber security and economic security , " the signers said , " the introduction of new vulnerabilities to weaken encrypted products would also undermine the rights and security of human information around the world . " the encryption supporters recognize that " if american companies maintain the ability to disclose the data and equipment of their customers , other governments than the united states will demand the same approach , and they will also be encouraged to demand the same skills from their domestic companies . " the government will not be able to object to it , given its own policy .
kuala lumpur - the daughter of malaysia , led by prime minister mahathir mohamad , suddenly found himself being put in a political scandal , following the online broadcast of a video about sex with a minister and a different man . the charge of armed sodomy is nothing new in malaysia , which is twice the result of the imprisonment of the leader of the people 's party of the people 's party of the people 's republic of ireland . unfortunately , the latest drama , like the previous one , is a risk that is still more of a problem . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries .
macron also promised to pursue a campaign for the european election in 2019 . as a democrat , he believes that the deepening of the european union must be supported by the development of truly european political space . the disgraceful decline in liberalism , social democracy , nationalism , and resistance to globalization is remarkable . macron actually jumped into the unknown west 's " new politics , " a field that had not been defined by a competition between large center-right-wing and center-left parties . but is politics really turning the page on the traditional cut of the right left ?
london - most pundits agree that the smallest bad way to deal with north korea 's nuclear sword is to keep a tight combination of tight and aggressive diplomatic relations . but less of the bad military option - the one that is implied by us by president donald trump 's insistence that china is responsible for its dangerous neighbour - is a chinese invasion or a change in regime that is forced to trigger the chinese threat . this outcome , which would significantly change the strategic balance of east asia in china 's favor , is not as improbable as most people think . indeed , its credibility is one of the reasons why it is necessary to take it seriously , including chinese military planners . in the truman 's words , this is the " porcelain first " option that could help " make china great again . "
spiekermann , the global authority for the trafficking of our identity on the internet , in order to promote advertising , political propaganda , public and private surveillance , emphasizes the need to break down the " personal data markets . " " since the world 's economic forum has begun to discuss personal data as a new asset class in 2011 , " she told me , " personal data markets have thrived in the idea that personal data may be " new oil " of the digital economy , and - as it seems - political . " as a result , " more than a thousand companies are now involved in a chain of digital information values that collect data from all online activities and deliver targeted content to users on the internet or mobile networks within 36 seconds of their entry into the digital realm . " and it 's not even " just a facebook and a google , apple or amazon , " says spiekermann , and he uses our data for any purpose . the " data management platforms " such as those operated by the acxiom or bluekai system have thousands of personal characteristics and social-psychological profiles of hundreds of millions of users . "
this makes it difficult to access a wider range of commodities , while providing businesses with a more diverse selection of inputs . but increased trade can also eliminate low-skilled jobs in manufacturing and reduce agricultural prices - the result is disproportionate damage to the poor . poverty has declined in india , for example , in areas where farmers face increased competition . given the obstacles to the mobility of workers between sectors , which are caused by obstacles to the acquisition of skills and strict labour market rules , the poorest workers have few options to do when such changes occur . as a result , an increase in trade may require difficult adjustments in the short term .
today , kenyans need similar means of reflection , but they do n't have to be seen . and yet , just as democratic institutions could benefit from such a mirror , those who have historically considered it , now believe that they have no choice but to refuse . for kenya , the public decline in the nation is very high . but it also showed that freedom in the press means much more than letting journalists say what they want and what they want . it also means that the owner of the media is responsible for the responsibility of the media .
the 2001 recession combined the inventory downturn with an economic downturn in the stock market . the first is now over ; the second - the result of overinvestment in high-tech and telecommunications , the sectors that were so important in the late 1990s - may be much longer . there is still a considerable excess capacity - for example , optical fibers that remain dark , for they have not yet seen any light . the mere reduction in interest rates has not led to an increase in investment in these sectors . the good news - and the bad - is that the pace of technological change in these sectors is so rapid that much of the equipment can be obsolete before it is exhausted or even used , so that new investments can be started faster than otherwise .
once the bureaucracy and the general parameters of the negotiations are set out next year , it may be possible to formally initiate the withdrawal procedure by invoking article 50 of the lisbon treaty . two years of negotiations ( if the agreement is agreed , the longer the agreement ) will be followed . three brexiteers , after the fight with each other like rats in a bag , had to come up with the package . the next general election will not be far away , which will provide a second sign of approval for brexit . that 's , at least , a formal plan , and i 'm going to say it .
in paris , in the western berlin , london and rome , the spring of 1968 was marked by student protests against the vietnam war . in the war , students protested , but their cause was not the same as their western counterparts . young poles have taken on the streets of the warlord , and they have not been able to sing " ho , ho , ho , chi minh " in solidarity with the viet cong , but to defend their country 's freedom and culture against the communist rule . instead of singing the name of ho , young poles were planted under the monument of the nineteenth-century poet , whose drama fathers were celebrating the freedom of battle , and recently declared to be subversive and anti-soviet , and its performance at the national theater was closed . these are only a few differences between students from the west and the east europe , who took part in the insurgency forty years ago .
in principle , the figures are comparable to those of the large groups of countries with low and medium income , as well as data available to advanced countries . the preliminary findings of these studies will illuminate political debates - and they will likely upset the ideologues of both right and left . lustig claims , in the last report , that inequality in world income is not rising . consider the gini coefficient as the most common measure of inequality , which is zero for equal treatment to 100 for perfect inequality ( one person is paid all income ) . the average score of gini ( not weighted by the population ) in countries where data decreased slightly in 2000-2010 from 39 to 38 .
similarly , while the policies that encourage businesses to increase wages will increase household income and domestic consumption , wage growth may worsen export competitiveness and reduce foreign direct investment . with a rebalancing policy that is unlikely to significantly increase average output growth , productivity is essential for china 's long-term wellbeing . the last piece of the puzzle for china is a realism , and it 's a reality . as it stands , the chinese government is eager to maintain a decent growth of around 7 % annually , while seeking to balance and reform . the risk is that , until the implementation of the reform measures , the authorities may rely on short-term stimulus to meet the growth objectives , to aggravate the misallocation of resources and structural weaknesses .
and by shutting down such a prominent institution , he can send a message that no one has ever won . the despots in the past have used the same tactics as in the past . but the orbán is doing it instead of 2017 , and that 's why it 's not possible . it is worth remembering that hungary , who joined the country , had to meet stringent criteria for accession , including credible democratic institutions and adhere to the rule of law . the fact that these high standards are currently systematically eroded has caused a paradox to be replaced .
soros : the ecb is a functioning institution , and it is a functional institution . as long as germany acts in his power , he can not veto him . that 's why i hope something really important can come out of the debate that is currently being closed . do you think the current economic crisis is the last step in the western philosophical crisis ? i discussed it in 2000 , in my book on global capitalism .
moreover , the flat-out tax on capital gains does not prevent social mobility or poverty growth . since the same tax system has been adopted in 1991 , the average annual productivity growth rate has increased by four times . since 1991 , there has been no significant change in social mobility in the area of france . the fact that the transition from the universal qualification system to a university system is more appropriate for all students after high school is achieved is that equality and greater social mobility is achieved . the macron revolution is in motion , and it is now moving , and the entire movement is taking place .
in addition to individual businesses , the entire value chains , which contribute significantly to the gdp of the country , have suddenly ceased to be operational and financial . but while many observers focus on short-term political and economic scandals , it is worth remembering what the brazil stands for by exposing corruption and punishing offenders . the reforming of the relationship between the public and private sectors of brazil can improve the long-term economic outcomes of the country . the ongoing prosecutions have changed the number of economic agents who think about violating public confidence in private profits . there is now a general perception that those who engage in illegal acts are more likely to be caught and punished , regardless of their social status .
as the union is advancing , it seems to have lost the citizens of the european union . many of them have turned their backs on the whole project , and they 're not going to let them go . they have a problem to see what is common to the european union , but they do n't have much to do with it . they do n't feel like they 're part of a great deal of it . even in the new member states , the enthusiasm of the european democracies ' family is cold .
among them is the former foreign security advisors of trump , michael fynn , who lied about the talks with the russian ambassador during the transition ( probably because of the lifting of penalties imposed on president barack obama by russian businesses ) . moreover , the son of the president , donald trump , jr. , and other senior officials of the campaign , met in a trump tower with a russian spy agent who had ties to the kremlin , who had promised clinton a " dirt . " it was widely assumed that mr trump 's son would face indictment - even donald , jr. , said - but barr 's announcement ruled out further prosecutions . another prominent fugitive from a special adviser 's hammer was trump 's son-in-law , ared kushner , who , according to the general view , was using his role as a white house , especially in foreign policy ( in which he had no experience ) , to take part in the need for funds to repay a large real estate debt . trump is still vulnerable to investigations initiated by federal and state prosecutors outside washington .
the negotiations in the back room and violence continue to be governed by the day . pundits claim that abs ca n't handle democracy , and that 's why they 're not . in fact , we and its allies do not like the outcome of the arabababis democracy , which is often caused by governments that are nationalist , anti-israel , islamist , and are dangerous to the interests of america 's oil . when the ballot papers go in that direction , we simply ignore the results of the election ( as in 2006 , when the majority of the votes in gaza were won . we ca n't stop the violence in the middle of the east , and we ca n't stop it .
the cambridge : after a decade of wasted life , the world is now being blamed for the pandemic spread of the world 's poorest countries , especially in africa and south-asia . the pandemic caused 19 million people to live , and 13 million orphans were born . 34 million people live with a hiv virus that causes help . while the first aid was identified in the early 1980s , it is now concentrated in poor countries : 25 million people suffer from africa , 6 million more in asia . in parts of southern africa , more than 20 % of adults are affected by the disease .
in most cases , the laws of the sky mirror the rules of the oceans . the oceans belong to all , except for the close masses of the mainland , which are managed in a similar way as the border between the mainland and the mainland . as a result , the sky is usually conceptual in terms of transport . aircraft and aircraft operate in " controlled " air near the ground , while nationality should be less important than the higher you go . fragile agreements that cover this are mainly forced by the fact that few countries can afford to put assets so high .
in fact , few other trends pose a greater threat to global stability , but also to the extent that the situation is not yet a threat . almost all companies have become dependent on the internet , on the world 's most important infrastructure , and on infrastructure that is dependent on other infrastructure . the so-called internet of things is a nominee ; it will soon be the internet of everything . and our current era is not a fourth industrial revolution . digital age has introduced new vulnerabilities that hackers , cyber criminals and other players of the campaign are already routinely using .
the government will also force the government to stop discriminating against soes and economic sectors with high private ownership , including agriculture . china 's industrialization strategy in the pre-reform period rejected the concept of " comparative benefits " - the principle that the economy is producing more goods than others , as a result of natural resources , geography and climate change . the japanese say it does not produce frozen salmon or hockey players , since investments in industries such as fruit and tourism are much more profitable . the same sectoral adjustment is based on the decline of steel and textiles in developed countries such as ours . most soes have survived in china , as central planners have emphasized the economic autarky , regardless of the cost .
some believe that the eurozone 's fiscal and monetary framework is changing in a weak nominal growth rate , possibly too low inflation , and high debt . but before the new government took office , it was often held in comparison with the remaining eurozone , and with other g7 members ( canada , france , germany , japan , united kingdom and united states ) . the political parties , which managed it until this year , did not provide a nominal growth in the gdp that the country needs . as a result , italians have chosen an unconventional coalition whose program combines the populist policies with the right to populist . while the party promises to cut taxes , five stars are pursuing basic revenue .
promoting foreign investments or liberalizing everything , and waiting for things to improve , is not working . two tasks must be implemented effectively : promoting investments in non-traditional areas and removing projects and investments that fail . for this reason , governments must use both carrot and stick to the ground . learning what is ( or can be ) good in terms of economic development is a key challenge . the carrot is needed because it is very valuable to discover that the flowers , football balls , or computer software can be produced at a low cost , as this knowledge can lead to investments of other entrepreneurs .
the combination of these conservative assumptions about the potential rapid increase in gdp with cyclical rebound - an estimated annual increase of 1.2 % in real gdp - would mean an average annual increase of 2.6 % , which would be significantly higher than 1.9 % over the last decade of 2009 . but not all the extra production that will be produced in the next decade will remain in us . if the trade deficit is reduced by 3 % of the total deficit in the period from the end of the decade , the implied increase in exports and imports would reduce output for consumption and investments by 0.3 % per year . the dollar 's decline could be equally important in the next decade . if the real value of the dollar is reduced by 25 % over the next decade , and the total impact of this dollar decline is reflected in import prices , the increase in imports would reduce real incomes by 0.4 % per year .
the douts claimed that , if the new bonds were fully served ( as they were ) , the same treatment was required for the holdouts to receive the full amount owed to them ( including not only interest , but also principal ) . the second circuit court ruled that argentina had to respect the obligations of the holders of bondholders in the same proportion ( i.e. 100 % ) as holders of the exchange bonds . it was the decision that the supreme court had recently upheld the decision , and that was the case . argentina can not pay the holders of new bonds under court order , unless they pay the holdouts , and no financial institution can serve as a broker to pay argentina . as a result , the argentina must either pay the douts in full or default for new bonds .
china has now launched a project of $ 1.4-billion , which will build a vast complex of roughly the size of monaco on a restored land in colombo - a port city that will be a major stop to china 's nautical " road . " zou bo , an honorary fellow at the pla academy of military science , admits that china 's mega-projects " will fundamentally change the political and economic environment of the indian ocean , " and thus represent china as a " strong , but benign " power . this is important because the new asian order will be determined by developments in east asia , where japan is determined to block china 's rise , rather than events in the indian ocean , where china is being pushed away by china 's long-term dominance . i 'm sure there 's a suspicion of china 's behaviour in the india . but china is carefully treading enough to continue its goals without spotting the intended prey .
but sharif was an honorary guest at the modi inauguration , and he exchanged gifts with the newly affable leader of india . the modi government has also adopted a tax on the proposed goods and services , which has been suspended by the opposition to the states under the control of the bjp-government ( including modi gujarat ) . and it will strengthen the national anti-terrorism effort that has previously been called an attack on the federal government . many modi supporters of the media have already begun to weaken the series of policy abdications that have been carried out since the campaign . the indian citizens , who thought they were going to vote for change , are beginning to think if the bjp simply repricked the government 's policies .
in all conflicts , human rights are among the first victims , and in the middle east , the decline in human dignity has now taken place in international agreements that have been negotiated for several generations . we should look at the hellish process and show us how to get what 's lost . with today 's emphasis on military action in the so-called " war on terror , " the need for a conference to discuss security and military affairs , together with a document of stability , has become urgent . it is necessary to create a regional agenda to help identify priorities based on a three-pronged strategy , which includes energy policy and water policy , arms control and debt reduction . europe 's contribution to the middle east has been a great contribution for the entire european union .
they did what they could to ensure that there were no significant reforms during the crisis , and they knew that reform would be over after the crisis . they were more of a truth than they were , and they did n't know . who would have expected that bill would follow the president of clinton , who would want to undermining the multilateral system in all its manifestations ? for example , if the imf correctly proposed that , after the crisis of argentina , it would be necessary to make a better way to restructure debt ( international bankruptcy procedure ) , we would vetoed the initiative . when the oecd proposed a restriction of bank secrecy , the administrative authorities vetoed the initiative .
bangkok - this month , about 100,000 hong kong residents gathered in the victoria park to mark the 28th anniversary of china 's violent repression of protesters in the square of beijing 's tianmen . as the morning post was announced in south china , the only public praise of the fourteenth year 1989 was the case in the hong kong . and for the attendees , the demonstration of hong kong reflected growing frustration , not just with china 's leaders , but also with their own . on the surface , it has n't changed much since the united kingdom returned to china 20 years ago . but china is now carrying out almost complete control of hong kong 's leadership .
what 's going on with one group , it does n't have to sit well with the other . and in order to be sustainable , a successful vision must also be a diagnosis of a situation facing a group . leaders have to get the question right before they propose an answer to the question . to choose the objectives and express them in the vision , they must not only ask their supporters to bring their opinion , but also understand the context of their choice . they must be able to accurately assess the reality of the matter and then make it clear .
in the sixth place , sanctions are said to weaken the governments that have been targeted . but by increasing the business and climate of investment , economic sanctions are mainly taken into account in the private sector . if anything , power will become more concentrated and concentrated , as government institutions are increasingly in control of strategic commodities , given the lack of this material . finally , sanctions are likely to be effective in the context of the proliferation of nuclear weapons . and here , too , their records are demonstrably poor , and they do n't know what they 're doing .
the central and eastern europe after 1989 , although it is very interesting to mention the revolution of arab , is not an appropriate reference point , since the new domestic and foreign order of the region has resulted in a change in external conditions resulting from the collapse of soviet power . democracy , freedom , market economy , and protection from the russian empire . they wanted the west and accession to nato and the european union was logical . nothing of this kind is related to the crisis belt in the middle of the east . there is no power in the region or without it , and it is not able to carry out the most basic vision of a new regional order - or even a vision of its parts .
a new haven - it 's a familiar drill at the moment , and it 's a good time . after a long period of exceptional monetary accommodation , the federal reserve began to march back to normal . it has now taken the first step toward the return of the interest rate of reference policy - federal funds - to a level that does not give rise to stimulus or limit the economy . most participants in the financial market applaud this strategy , but they do not want to be involved . in fact , it 's a dangerous mistake , and i 'm not going to let you know .
the danger of central banks is that the default subsidy granted to the main financial institutions is not measured in any of the budget . moreover , the increase in the risk of financial systems , which is higher , is difficult to measure , and can occur only after several years ( e.g. after the governor 's term of office is expired ) . de gregorio 's views differ from many of his colleagues in other countries , since he clearly sees the risks of allowing banks to increase and apply what he calls " smart " strategies that require a great deal of leverage . higher leverage is a macroeconomic risk - at least for fiscal balances , if default guarantees are respected . banks and other private enterprises are being held at a lower debt level , and their vulnerability to shocks is reduced .
new york - there was no shortage of control of what russia 's president , vincent putin , is in syria , and why . however , much of the analysis was closely focused on the short term , and it may be too negative to assess the likely long-term consequences of his actions . we know that putin decided to help bashar al-assad 's regime with the fight . russian bombs and missiles are now falling on a range of armed groups that have fought with the syrian government forces , which has provided the regime with a breathing space to provide russian intervention . although the sad government is bad , and although it is necessary to answer , this outcome is certainly better than in the short term , in the short term , to collapse the regime .
this can be interpreted in general in the context of a global trade framework based on rules . the use of data for 2017 shows that the number of anti-dumping and countervailing cases ( anti-subsidy cases ) submitted by all member states against exporting countries ( the value of the log on the chart below ) is generally reduced as the volume of the exporter 's revenue ( the value of the log on the horizontal axis ) . each blue dot on the chart represents a member of the economy , and a solid black line shows an international average ( drawn from all economies , except china ) . the data model is clear : as the country gets richer , there are fewer anti-subsidy or anti-dumping cases against it . this could be because rich countries are better aware of the rules , and they are less likely to attract complaints as their cost of labor is rising , or some of the combined .
most bets are on britain 's official departure from the eu eu march in 2019 , but " temporarily " remain in the customs union and will be given two or three years to negotiate a final divorce agreement . brexiteers will be furious with such a " soft " exit , but it will probably be enough to ensure parliamentary approval . it will be an honor to decide to leave the eu eu eu , but its harsh economic consequences will be postponed : a triumph in pragmatism over ideology . if the trajectory of brexit turns out this way , it will be a good example of a double character - and a function - of politics . john maynard keynes said it well : " in 1933 , words should be a little wild , because they are attacking the thoughts of the unthinking . "
the atmosphere was not more tranquil : a former royal castle in the hills of the taunus area near the border , where statesmen and politicians held a annual meeting with the middle east . the european union and america , the israelis and the irish , the egyptians and the turks , the palestinians and the tunisians were rubbing their shoulders . this year 's news was the presence of representatives of iraq 's post-saddam , among them official of the local government of the kurdish , and a senior representative of shia . the new situation in iraq and the middle east road map were in the middle of attention . on the night of the opening , a senior german government minister , deeply involved in the middle east , addressed both topics , showing great sensitivity to both israeli and the interests of the palestinian .
last friday , cairo was paralyzed , despite the fact that there was no coverage of local media outlets . and ramadan - now underway - is a mobilization-friendly matter . after sunset , we have a joint program that will be held in the evening . the observant muslims gather at sunset for the iftar ( breakfast ) , followed by evening prayers , tawarih ( longer prayers , including short sermon ) , social interaction , qiyam ( another prayer at night ) , suhur ( another meal ) , and then morning prayers . the ramadan 's last ten days are i " tikaf " ( collective seclusion ) , during which worshippers gather and spend the night in mosques and open spaces .
as a leading developer institution for development , african development bank will support north africa 's members , strengthen governance and institutions , strengthen social security networks and establish a basis for strong economic recovery . as we finance infrastructure and other projects in the region , we will seek to integrate the franchises and rural areas . we are working more closely with the groups of civil society and the media , as well as academic institutions , with tanks , unions of labor , industry , and industry . with the emerging democratic release , we have partners who can address governance issues . no country or region can really seek full economic growth on a broad scale without being dragged along by all parts of the population and without a voice .
many of the poorest countries have finally appeared to be involved , and they have long been able to increase energy and raw materials , restore investment from abroad , and increase tax revenues . although the numbers were never as rosy as the market enthusiasts thought , they were distracted by the shaky foundations of the newfound wellbeing . the growing need for measures to remedy global imbalances has been faced with disbelief by influential politicians and market analysts : " why change the formula ? " the fate of the rest of the world depends on the response of the emerging financial turmoil . the decline in real estate and stock markets will undoubtedly dampen the borrowing and demand of homes , which may trigger a spiral .
a lack of food in the country is a distant memory of many people in asia . but as the region is struggling to feed and feed the booming population , it may become a painful fact . asia is already the world 's largest food market , and by 2050 , its population will increase by 5 billion - and 900 million people will increase . due to the expansion of the medium term , half of the total increase in consumption of beef and poultry in the region will be taken into account in the region , and more than three quarters of the increase in fish consumption by 2030 . and then , more than 60 % of the total demand for cereals will come from developing countries in the south and east asia .
what we need is to explain to our people why america should be more involved in the growing problems of the middle east . this is not meant to mean that we should necessarily solve all of the problems . but whether america is involved or not , it needs a policy . syria is a case in the case of a case where the judgment is issued . the situation , which was predicted by all the pundits around , metastasized and threatened to become a regional civil war .
london - cybersecurity is one of the main challenges of the digital age . everyone , from households to businesses to governments , is interested in protecting the most valuable commodity of our era : data . the question is how it can be achieved , and how it is possible . the scope of the challenge should not be underestimated , since it is not necessary to assess it . the attackers are increasingly nimble and innovative , armed with increasingly diverse weapons , and cyber attacks are emerging at a rapid and sophisticated pace .
this is not the only way to go forward , but to the end of the day . integration of immigrants makes sense , but it is desirable to help create sustainable conditions in troubled countries with the help of generations of emigrants who have first moved their resources and then return to their original state . many of the consequences are based on the fact that immigration is not just a rational debate . from the point of view of these facts , the enlargement of the eurozone 's eastern union is highly desirable , for example , not despite the fact that it can lead to migration from the new member states to the old days . in this way , more ports and irelands can be created , as rich and already thriving regions are maintained .
the cost is small : to reach 80 % of the 140 million people in the world , or so poor children , would need to be willing to pay $ 60 million a year , while economic gains would eventually be a $ 1 billion annual profit . the provision of salt and salt from iron and iodized salt is another major investment . fortifying products with iron costs of at least $ 0.12 per person per year . we know that iron deficiency leads to cognitive problems and problems with development in the future . for 286 million , we could get iodized salt and fortified basic food to 80 % of the food in the worst affected areas .
standardization and liberalization in europe 's telecoms have underpinned 9 % growth in value added value and productivity in this period compared to 6 % growth in the euro . the biggest scope for private investment is in the capital sector , in which the government is a major regulator . even if the euro area was to close only 10 % of the difference in equity to employees at the lower level of the sector , the impact could be more than 360 billion euro in the additional investments - a balance between 2007 and 2011 would be offset by eur 354 billion . many projects , from airports to universities , are beneficial over the course of decades , meaning that demand for short term demand will have a limited impact on overall viability . even among more projects that are close to the horizon , some - for example , retrofitting buildings with more energy efficiency - could become viable for policymakers .
as a result , the difference between growth in emerging and advanced economies , combined with imf data , including hong kong , singapore , south korea and taiwan , has declined significantly . indeed , after averaging three percent points for two decades , and by reaching 4.8 % in 2010 , the difference between points reached 2.5 % last year , and this year is expected to be only 1.5 . the question is , then , whether the difference in growth will remain as low as it is today . those who believe it will usually rely on three arguments , and they all need qualifications . first , they claim that there has already been a great deal of convergence in manufacturing .
in practice , the spread of new safeguards has brought a high degree of moral hazard , and they have created perverse incentives for both governments and participants in the market . in the context of the latest eurozone reforms , the principle of liability for those who assume the risk is replaced by a common liability principle , which means financial transfers in the event of a crisis . the current situation in italy should be a warning to all those who support the sharing of risks . worse , the only focus on solidarity means that real eurozone problems have not been resolved . these include high levels of public and private debt , weak institutions , regulated markets , and incomplete balance-sheet corrections of companies and banks .
the hope of a breakthrough in the past has not been achieved , as the political infighting of new leaders has prevented the implementation of any serious reform agenda . but 2004 was also a bitter failure for russian president vladimir putin , who tried to bring his favourite presidential candidate , ktor yanukovych , to power the kyiv by supporting massive manipulation of votes . the failure was a bitter blow to the kremlin , which was not forgiven or forgotten . in 2010 , the failure of the orange revolution brought the yanukovych to power in free and fair elections , and in 2012 he was elected to a third presidential term in russia . the creation of a new eurasia union was a key part of the platform .
after the crisis in east asia , 1997 , the drought occurred for seven years . the third cycle of inflows took place in 2004-2011 , and continued to persist even in the global financial crisis . if history repeats itself , it is time to stop the capital flows in emerging markets . are there a couple of data points and biblical parcapable enough to seriously consider the hypothesis of a 15-year cycle ? maybe if we had a causal theory , it would explain the periodicity of international capital flows .
jefferson and madison did not want the capital of the country to be north , and haymilton reluctantly agreed to support the move to the area carved out of virginia or maryland . they would then secure the votes of the federal government to assume and repay the debts of the states . a responsible fiscal state has emerged from this great deal of compromise , and it has been a great deal of progress . despite the huge costs - more than half of the newly emerging government 's spending in the early years has fallen into debt - the economy has shaken the 1780 " crisis and has become a growth boom . hamilton 's job was simpler and harder than we were today .
digital id could play much more important role in the interaction of individuals and institutions . digital systems that can lead to high adoption could have a significant economic value for individuals , businesses and government institutions . as we document a new report , digital ids can reduce the rate of fraud , reduce the cost of boarding the customer , increase the financial inclusion , increase the savings and credit of customers with a lack of credit . they can also encourage development by enabling the alignment of digital talent and streamlined verification of employees , which will lead to a higher participation in the labor market . digital ids could even create a means to control data and digital records in interconnected ecosystems .
if the revolution continues to act , it will fall into incompetence , disillusionment , frenzied hunting of witches , and a recurring cycle of violence . but if the revolution is cancelled , its leaders will be stripped of the mask as an empty windbag . the first revolution in 1917 toppled the czar nicholas and created a provisional government that , according to the socialist leader of alexander kerensky , was a transitional blow . lenin described kerensky as a " balalaika " played by an old order to deceive workers and peasants . but the second revolution , which brought lenin and bolsheviks to power , created a regime that was less vulnerable to betrayal .
below , there is an opportunity to create a single banking manager , combining the functions of a comptroller of currency , a office of good supervision and regulatory functions of regional feds . in a perfect world , you would add to the state 's regulatory authorities , but i know that at this point , i have begun to mple on the cherished features of our constitution ! this regulatory structure would allow the public to talk openly about the development of the financial system , without worrying about the implications of individual institutions in their interest . the crisis has shown that we need to speak with this simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , simple , moreover , such a solution would protect the fed 's fundamental independence in the role of monetary policy .
for example , there is a fear that small retailers will be crushed in india when the market enters the market in the next few months . but politicians must recognize that there are ways to protect small retailers without stifling competition . the government can impose regulations on zoning , help small retailers find a specialist place on the market , or provide training for displaced workers . the survival of craft retailers should not be an excuse to introduce or maintain trade rules that will ultimately protect existing wealth . asian politicians must remember how successfully they developed their manufacturing sector .
if history punishes those who do n't learn from it , financial history will punish them with sadistic twist - they will also punish those who learn too enthusiastically . the financial crisis has also reflected the shortcomings of the legislation based on experience gained in previous crises . today 's crisis is not an exception , and it will not be the next . the post-war financial regulation system was based on three lessons that were expected from the 1930 " s . first , we thought the main reason why banks failed is that depositors panic , not that banks are in danger of failing .
for china , the biggest prize is a bilateral investment agreement ( part ) . in practice , the porcelain part of the us-china would facilitate the investments and operation of chinese entities and increase the access of american firms to chinese markets . such a deal would be almost a term for xi , as it would represent a voice of confidence in the chinese economy . but the prospect of a little bit of a problem is uncertain , at best . congress is skeptical and the american business community must also convince .
this is especially interesting , because it is fundamentally rejected by one of the most painful scenes of al gore 's film . in the details of the graphic data , the gore demonstrated how much florida , shanghai and holland would rise by a 20-foot increase in the sea level . the ipcc report clearly shows that exaggerating such a scale is not a basis for science - though it is clear that people are afraid of it , and that they might be able to win the award of the academy . the report also revealed the probability of another scenario of gore : that global warming could cause the collapse of the gulf stream and the euro would turn into a new simulation . ipcc simply and seriously tells us that this scenario - also vividly depicted in hollywood 's film - is considered " highly improbable . "
it should be noted that china can still reduce the bilateral surplus of trade to any partner , even if its total surplus is increased . and even if the import expands , rather than reducing , the total surplus of the country 's trade surplus may well be beneficial . for example , reducing imports costs will increase the purchasing power of chinese households and access to products that can improve their lives . chinese businesses will also benefit from lower costs for foreign production and equipment , which will increase global competitiveness - another way to reduce import barriers to exports . finally , the international import expo will complement china 's other measures to liberalise its market , including the introduction of barriers to foreign financial firms .
many people in the west ask if russia will continue to use natural gas as a means of economic and political pressure on the ukraine , george , and other countries in which the kremlin considers it " close to abroad . " but the use of " energy weapons " is not just a tactic : it is the basis for the prevailing doctrine of russian foreign policy . russia 's policy towards countries that are after russia is based on the doctrine of " liberal empire , " according to which russian and private companies should take control of key economic entities across the territory of the former soviet republics by acquiring their assets . in this context , it is necessary to understand the word " liberation " in order to suggest that the empire of a " new russian dream " should be built purely by means of economic means , except for all possible forcibly actions against other countries . the main role of this model is naturally the supply of energy to countries that are after russia .
cambridge - congress is close to adopting a major tax reform . the most important provision of the plan reduces the corporate tax rate from 35 to 20 % - from the highest level of all countries to one of the lowest - and allows us to repatriate the profits of foreign subsidiaries without paying the additional taxes . opponents of this legislation point to an increase in the budget deficit , which will increase by 1.5 trillion dollars over the next 10 years . i do n't like budget deficits , and i 've warned them about their dangerous effects for a long time . however , i believe that the economic benefits of the changes in corporation tax outweigh the adverse effects of increased debt .
we need a group of major economies - call it " g major " - which will announce monetary policy coordinated . to find out why , consider the case of japan , and then take a look at it . japanese politicians have a good reason to try to promote inflation and even correct some of the yen 's secular recognition for the last six or seven years . but in today 's unilateral world , other central banks will soon respond by injecting liquidity and forcing the japanese bank to act again . these measures are usually justified as policies to boost domestic demand , but they are eventually fueling a replacement , low-cost currency war .
the difference in economic performance in democratic and republican presidents is consistent and significant , and differences are clearly above the threshold for statistical importance . princeton university economists alan blinder and mark watson confirm that democratic dividend has been confirmed in recent studies . the first point is that , in the post-world war period ( from harry truman to barack obama ) , annual growth in gdp increased 4.3 % in democratic governance compared to 2.5 % in republicans . if anyone goes on , including herbert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt , the difference is even bigger . the results are similar , even if one of the first three months - or the first few quarters - of the president 's term of office to his predecessor .
the term of office expired for the crown prosecution service , the national commission for the election and the supreme court 's judges , but no successors were appointed , since maduro did not want to negotiate with the opposition , and two-thirds of the majority of the judges needed to appoint officials of his selection . venezuelans would like nothing better than those who decide their fate , but democratic means are denied . indeed , one of the main opposition leaders , leopoldo lópez , was arrested for ridiculous allegations of " inciting crime . " it would be absurd to tell the ukrainian demonstrators who face the government 's storm forces to smile and endure it without external solidarity or support . it 's as absurd as telling venezuela demonstrators the same thing .
true , the far-left parties have also made progress since the crisis crisis crisis crisis . but history suggests that nationalists are the most likely to gain from political and social disintegration . it 's easy to find out why , but i do n't know why . classical socialism is a descendent of liberal internationalism , which means that it is a global creation , and in principle it does not know the boundaries of the state . but , given the large economic crisis , internationalism is becoming a point in which it is now .
london - " what if it 's as good as it is ? " jack nicholson asks when he goes through the waiting room of his psychiatrist in an anonymous film . at the last meeting of g-20 finance ministers in shanghai , participants asked the same question - not just in the medium term , but in terms of global growth . many now wonder if china 's growth rate will be as good as it will be for a long time . to determine the validity of these fears , it is necessary to understand what is slowing china 's economic slowdown .
the internet also sends out templates of real democracy - immediately and globally . it is no surprise that people use this technology in a way that suggests that they are not interested in cordoned into conflicts and competing ethnicities , nationalities or religious identities . they want to be a simple democracy , and they want to be able to self-self-self-self-centered . this program is directly contrary to the interests of global capital and governments that have grown accustomed to the operation of citizens " supervision . in 2012 , it is expected that the conflict will be significantly increased , as the agendas of protesters - from the occupied walls of the city to occupy moscow - will gain greater coherence .
but three of the four largest economies of the european union - a france , unity and a united kingdom - all have big debts and annual deficits that point to even higher debt ratios in the future . the growing level of national debt is reducing funds that would otherwise be available to finance business investments that would increase production . businesses are now worried that the growing deficit will lead to higher taxes , and that they will further discourage investment . that 's a disturbing prospect for everyone , and that 's what it 's like . if interest rates increase , as they surely need , the cost of debt management will require higher taxes , economic incentives , and economic activity will be weakened .
they pioneered new retail institutions , from department stores to stores in boxes . the fastest growing economic sector since the end of the 19th century was loosely classified as " service industry , " often involving the dissemination of information and entertainment activities , in which the jews were especially prominent , from publishing to vaudeville and from films to commercial sports . they also did much in the profession of educated people - for example , medicine , law , and accounting - which is so important to modern capitalists . the fact that jews have long been subject to discrimination is sometimes justified by their tendency to trade , finance and profession . but not all minorities are long subject to discrimination , which is necessarily a success in terms of competition .
until now , sustainable infrastructure is funded largely by multilateral and national development banks ( bs and networks ) . the crowding of private equity is therefore crucial to the closure of the investment gap . in order to increase the development and financing of sustainable infrastructure in low-income and middle-income economies , we propose a new holistic framework developed by a working group for laboratories on the planet , which will finance sustainable infrastructure , of which one of us ( déséglise ) is involved . the framework called " vision for transition to infrastructure in terms of environmental protection " ( vert-infra ) is designed to facilitate the opening of projects and development of sustainable infrastructure as an asset class , and thus opening doors to large-scale investments by institutional investors around the world . the vert-infra , which is initially covered by four sub-sectors of sustainable infrastructure : energy , energy storage , transport and buildings , with particular emphasis on urban projects .
today , it seems that after the global financial crisis and economic crisis ( and , unlike 2001 ) , we are significantly weakened . moreover , the international stage has been new superpowers with their own interests - namely china and india . without china and india , america 's middle east policy can no longer be successful , but this support is only half-heartedly granted . the success of american politics in this area is very limited in beijing and in the new delhi , and europe is unwilling to contribute significantly to it . in this tangle of regional wars , crises and conflicts , the nuclear ambitions of ian look like a ticking bomb - and the entire area is gathering a lot of dynamite .
we do n't know what 's going on , but this is not a story anymore . creative destruction ( reinforced by economic openness and technology ) is spreading across the world . skeptics claim that competition and technology are based on the harmony of society , and that they create inequality and prevent the middle class from being a victim . the new economy is difficult for those who sit on their backsides and live at the expense of shareholders or taxpayers . true , it gives an opportunity to drive people who were previously on the sidelines .
chest x-rays of lung cancer and pap cancer tests were similar , though not so definitive , criticism . the next step in the review of cancer was taken last year when scientists at the institute for health policy announced that screening costs were often limited , and that the benefits were significantly exaggerated . even a mammogram ( we get nearly 40 million a year ) , which does n't necessarily save life . scientists found that the test did not help 120,000-134,000 of the affected women each year . the cancer was either growing so slowly that they did n't pose a problem , or they would be treated successfully if they were clinically later ( or so aggressive that they could n't do much ) .
this is important because growing the population may be even more of a problem than it was originally thought . the new study says that 70 % of the chances of global population not reaching the peak of the century are 80 % , and that the population will reach 9.6-12.3 billion people by 2100 . sub-saharan africa - the poorest - will continue to be the main engine of demographic growth . fortunately , this engine is cost-effective : better women 's access to modern contraceptives . the fact that the world 's 215 million women have contracted - a large share of them in africa - who would like to prevent pregnancy would cost 3.6 billion dollars a year .
state-owned enterprises should also be free to offer , but they should not receive any favors . the basic problem in iraq is not the work of the people who are working . unlike the mexican , chinese , or russian revolutions , the current conflict is not in the hands of the current conflict . this is a struggle for power , not for economic justice , or for better life . the main causes are political , sectarian , and personal , and the cause of the war is a great deal of interest .
on russia , since the invasion of george , obama , and his co-nominee joe biden ( who first attended georgia after the invasion ) , points out that george helps to restore his economy and maintain his independence in the context of a continuing russian campaign . on the contrary , mccain wants russia to punish him for such measures , which will destroy him from the g-8 . these measures may ultimately be necessary , but george will not be able to help to survive as a separate democracy . moreover , even after george 's outrage , there are common interests - such as energy , climate change and iran - which must be addressed to the west and kremlin . this was true even during the cold war , and it remains true today , but mccain seems to have not recognized it .
after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur . after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months .
the central authority is gradually weakening , as the country is continuing to divide into ethnic and sectarian areas , and in fact , the state of the kurdish is well founded in the north . meanwhile , the possibility of a corresponding central authority is sliding away , as the country faces several seemingly intractable problems - from internal divisions and separatist movements to al qaeda 's franchise in the arabian peninsula and the economy of failing . the south ( aden ) and east ( hadramaut ) are both on their way to independence , and they drag the yemen to another secession for nearly 25 years after fragile unification . in libya , the collapse of colonel muammar el-qaddafi 's regime has caused chaos and destruction of the central government . the south is still undecided , while the benghazi regional council is ruled by the east , but the west is still subject to a poorly consolidated government in tripoli .
the commission has long since 2008 , and it has been agreed that the public sector is responsible for the intervention of important banks in the area of bail and stimulate economic growth . but this consensus was short , and the economic interventions of the public sector soon became the main cause of the crisis , and it was necessary to reverse it . it turns out that this is a serious mistake , and that 's why i 'm not mistaken . in particular , in europe , governments were lagging for their high debts , even though private debt was not loans for public resources , which caused a fall . many of them were advised to introduce austerity rather than stimulate growth in anti-cyclical policies .
we must fight the exclusion of political parties , as well as the exclusion of society . this means welcoming migrants and minorities , creating more opportunities for women and disabled people and strengthening citizens " participation in education and participation . the power of citizens means that they can choose both the right and knowledge to choose well . in pasok , the greek socialist party , which is leading us , is conducting far-reaching reforms in this direction . the socialist international goal is not free markets , but free people .
in fact , the euro could destroy the entire area of the euro , but it is not a good thing . unlike europe , the united states are emerging as the strongest developed world economy . shale energy has given us an important competitive advantage in the production of petrochemical materials . the banking sector and the household sector have made some progress in reducing the number of people . the quantitative easing has increased asset values , and the value of the asset is not reduced .
yet , in the mid-1970 " s , when i first went to china during the cultural revolution , there was no sign of the public 's slogan : " with american imperialism and its running dogs . " although chinese felt incensed by foreign intervention and dominance , many of them admired america for democracy , openness , energy , and willingness to help . this divided stance meant that china tended to respond as contradictory as they were impassioned and unpredictable , especially when it came to its pride . nothing more repugnant to china 's new nationalists than the idea of china being abused by foreign use . nothing provoked a muscular reaction after mao 's power , just a humiliating prospect of feeling unable to resist foreign predation .
third , we must face a growing price for fossil fuels , as growth in developing countries is increasing demand , and the traditional supply of coal , oil and gas is depleted . of course , we will find more fossil fuels , but much higher costs , and much more risks to the environment , because of industrial waste , waste , leaks and other damage . even the much-heralded shale-gas revolution is a lot of hype - much like gold mushrooms and bubbles from the past . the shale-gas wells are depleted much faster than the usual field . and they 're dirty from the environment to the boot , and they 're dirty .
the election of the united kingdom is only a month away , but it seems that the campaign has been here forever , and it is moving steadily forward , but there is no evidence of real excitement - or even significant movement in the polls . support for two main contestants - a labor force and a ruling conservative party - appears to be stuck in the mid-thirties . the conservatives hope that the government 's record of the economy will convince voters to break their favor . maybe they 're right , they deserve it , they do n't have to be . meanwhile , the work seems to be hoping for all who know what is going to turn the tide , while they are still crossing their fingers , so that they will not be eviscerated in scotland , where the scottish national party threatens to sweep the board .
is it an american tradition that does n't care about what others do ? the second opinion of psychological research , which was summarized by the hood of his recent book , is the illusion of self-consciousness , which is a role in decision-making . recent lab research shows that our conscious thoughts are based on an ex post , compelling reasons for many decisions that our minds do not consciously . for example , former president george w. bush decided to invade iraq and topple saddam hussein for many reasons : strategic benefits , humanitarian aid , and even to compete with his father . most of them did not include weapons of mass destruction , but the weapons of the mass destruction .
other factors , of course , are not important to trade policy , but also to trade policy . the protection of property rights , civil and political freedom , the protection of violence , is one of the main factors of economic growth . fiscal restrictions , as a result of low consumption in government resources relative to growth in income , are also important . the geographical location is also important , since the distance from the market is a bad climate , and the poor land is a barrier to economic growth in developing countries . but this makes it more important to implement open trade policy , as they are the best tools to compensate for the bad cards that nature sometimes deals with .
durham , north carolina - my day begins with coffee and chocolate . i 'm taking various food and medicine from the start , including an aspirin dose of 81 mg daily . my study is filled with bright colors , and i see my green garden through the window . in short , my life - like everyone else - is allowed , enriched and expanded by a variety of plants and derivatives . but biodiversity , which is all dependent on us , is threatened , as human activity is destroying forests and other habitats rich in plant-rich planets .
ramallah - israeli prime minister benanyahu has decided to approve the new jewish settlement before the possible freeze is the last round of the cycle , which has been repeated several times in the last 40 years , so it would be mundane if it had n't been so dangerous . the cycle is similar : america or international pressure horses on the island to stop settlement activities in occupied territories . the israeli settlers and their supporters will gather even more energy to expand into more palestine areas , build more than jewish settlements , and destroy more arab homes before the so-called " freeze " occurs . the peace process , which is not surprising , will become a joke when it happens . eventually , the pressure will fall , and the freezing will not occur , and the pressure will fall .
san francisco - the federal reserve 's mandate to maintain " stable prices " - as mentioned in the federal reserve act - is very different - and the target of self-selected food is 2 % annual inflation . so how can politicians replace the first one ? the term " stable prices " is self-evident : a package of goods will cost the same amount of goods in the last ten , fifty , or even in a hundred years . if the country is experiencing 2 % inflation in the 10-year period , the same items that can be purchased today will cost 122 dollars . after 100 years , the price tag will be worth $ 724 , and you 'll be on it .
as a liberal , i share these values , but i recognize that it is necessary to insist on them in policy , which will ultimately undermine the interests of immigrants . if the europei countries are vehemently anti-immigrant political forces , they must ask whether they are better served by the newcomers , who are granted a conditional condition ( including , where appropriate , for a limited period of time ) , or if they are not admitted . the issue of skilled immigration is a similar dilemma for the issue of immigration . many in europe claim that this approach is not only discriminated against the weakest immigrants , but also leads to a brain drain from countries that need highly skilled workers . but once again , you have to examine the trade , and then you have to go through it .
instead , reforms were made from the top , without any support for the grassroots - and thus without lasting durability . we were all direct appeal to the streets and the masses , rather than encouraging the real social consensus . such a direct method is a source of authoritarianism , which is why it is not possible to use it . we must recognize that it is not only when the public is aware of it , but also when there is no obvious stable guard , such as strong political parties , who choose their leaders and control them . russia is now facing a situation where the president 's election is the only political issue .
the rate of greece is 49.3 % , but the ratio is only 13 % . the share of the euro for the entire width of 20.8 % exceeds 8.7 % . of course , the unemployment rate of youth is 13 % , or 19 % , not a reason for complacency . but , although unemployment rates in the eurozone have increased since 2009 , the same ratio has remained ( although both levels of unemployment in the eurozone are significantly higher than in the previous year ) . in 2006 , the french student protests showed that the rate of unemployment for young people was 22 % compared to 11 % , 12 % , and 13 % of the uk 's total number of youth unemployment .
alternatively , china could become a new supplier of reserve assets in the end . in this case , the supply of reserve assets would be in line with regions that are rapidly growing around the world . this link could be direct if the renminbi acquires a reserve currency status , or indirect , if the unit of the account of the international monetary fund , special rights to draw , becomes a favourite asset to the reserve manager , as the renminbi is now in the cash exchange basket . the reserve status of the sdr is a long-term imf ambition , although the idea has never been too traction . but there is a third option : global demand for reserve assets may be reduced .
trump pledged to carry out large-scale tax cuts , including a reduction in corporation tax from 35 % to 15 % . in addition to this plan , infrastructure investment will be subsidized and military spending will increase , and we will likely face a rapid increase in the tax deficit and a large short-term increase in demand . with the economy that is already operating close to full capacity ( unemployment is below 5 % ) , higher imports will be needed to meet this demand . all of this will be good for the eurozone , for which we remain the main export market . but it is the countries that are most likely to benefit from the peripheral .
princeton - in the last century , the economic policy debate has been in orbit around the state and market . does the market control the state in a sense that it limits governments " ability to borrow ? or does the state take charge of the market if it fails to carry out socially necessary functions - such as fighting wars or maintaining full employment ? this old debate is the basis of today 's deep divisions about how europe should respond to a debt crisis . the same question is to divide america 's politics into the lead-up to the presidential election and elections of congress .
the british negotiators will then respond to the dominating logic of the eu negotiators , and they will try to make the process more painful for the rest of the place . indeed , uk 's " leave " constituency has already firmly believed that uk will be better off , and that brexit will hurt europe more than it would hurt . this means that the camp of leave has a strong incentive to fulfill its prophecy . the second loop of doom is used for the domestic political economy of uk . britain can not simply beat the europeans in his own game by reviving the automobile industry or producing wine to rival french and italian producers .
the exaggerated domestic demand , which has been supported by this development , is now gone , permanently . domestic spending may be rebound , but savings will not be reduced and should not return to zero . fiscal stimulus could help to reverse deficit reduction efforts , while structural adjustment and expansion of competitiveness in tradable sectors would continue . but by itself , it is not an incentive to answer the question of the question . otherwise , the decline in domestic demand would be restored when the stimulus was over .
so the aim of the regime is not to change the baghdad , even if it is not publicly supported . it is reasonable for president putin to remain on the side of iraq for the time being , and to be repaid later , in the form of his silent help , in the form of a form of influence on the successor iraq regime , in the context of the repayment of russian debt . if the iraq war fails , the situation will be worse than it is now , given the russian interests , and the resulting chaos will be a problem for us and its traditional allies , not russia . the contrast between russian treatment with iraq and ireland highlights not only the famous pragmatism of mr putin , but also the sophistication and testimony of his policy . this contrast also reflects the fundamental difference between irish , historical and artificial creation , which is iraq .
the skepticism of kosovo about serbia 's democratic credentials is based primarily on the knowledge that the conflict between kosovo and serbia is structural , not on a single person . although milosevic was still compounded by tensions , his policies against the ethnic albanians of kosovo were truly popular among serbs . during the decades of yugoslavia 's wars , serbia 's stance against minorities reflected nationalist consensus , in which the majority of what was then taken by the opposition . most kosmokers will find themselves talking to serbia about improved relations if serbia does not undergo a process of " denazification . " the fact that president kostunica has yet refused to even discuss the fact that he has accused war criminals internationally , is not a sign of hope .
eventually , economic sanctions forced qaddafi to avoid international terror and to turn to megrahi - and to another suspect , who later acquitted him - to face a scottish court in a camp zeist in the country . but there was never any convincing evidence that megrahi was involved in a bomb attack . most experts still believe he was convicted of fraudulent evidence and that the cia had bribed witnesses . in addition , libya formally accepted the responsibility for the bombing , and agreed to pay more than $ 2 billion to the families of the victims and to abandon the weapons of the mass destruction program . yet , despite the hope that qaddafi would have a warmer hug from western leaders ( and a flood of investments ) , the relationship was still plagued by mutual suspicion and frequent delays .
this experience prompted him to set up a dangote academy , a talent development center , which is to help fill the gap between industrial-skills in nigeria and beyond . these initiatives are essential for linking education with economic development and improving the prosperity of the population . in 2040 , african citizens will have 1.1 billion people working in the labor market - more than india or china . with appropriate education , skills and jobs , this huge workforce could deliver rapid and sustainable economic growth . without them , the continent is more likely to increase unemployment , increase inequality , social disorder , and eventually conflicts and chaos .
the husband of another young woman , isha , cut off her nose and ears . violence against women in afghanistan is continuing for many reasons , and the number of people in the military is still in the war . first , the country inherited the patriarchal tribal tradition , which assumes a woman 's inferiority . therefore , women are deprived of their fundamental rights and freedoms , and they are deprived of them . second , there is a strong political incentive to rid women of their rights .
but the introduction of europe 's economic and monetary union should have prompted political systems to pursue long-term objectives such as productivity growth and competitiveness . at first , it was a plan to play the events according to the plan . during the period of accession to the eurozone , its economy stabilized since 1994 to 2001 . inflation and fiscal deficit fell rapidly , businesses and consumers were more confident , investment was rising , and the government introduced an ambitious package of liberalization reforms . annual growth in gdp increased by -1.6 % in 1993 to 4 % in 1997 and reached this level by 2007 .
the european parliament has already largely supported this move . the momentum of the hfo phase out of the arctic is building up . the danish ship 's association and arctic cruise ship operator hurtigruten are only two players who demand a more stringent regulation or direct ban . other shipping companies have pointed out that regulations need to be implemented to maintain a level playing field . in january 2017 , hurtigruten joined the arctic alliance and began to commit to arctic activity .
john f. kennedy was a little bit of both of them , and i 'm not sure . he did one big thing : he solved the cuban crisis with a missile strike . and his gift for motivation was unmatched ; indeed , it was over , and his assassination was a powerful legacy . since the death of president nelson mandela , south africa , there has been no great figure in africa , combined with courage , authority , and magnanimity in graceful abundance . in fact , he is among the most charming and most charming leaders i have ever met , the other two - the former united nations of the secretary-general kofi annan , and the former secretary of state colin powell - are either african or african-american .
sanibel - restoring diplomatic relations between cuba and the united states will release new prospects for the island 's economy . some steps , including the removal of a trade embargo , are prohibited by the act of helms-burton , adopted by congress in 1996 . but restoring cuban membership in international monetary funds is a real option . cuba was one of the 40 original members of the imf 's group . it was involved in a major preliminary planning of a forest conference in 1944 and was active in delegation .
it does not mean that academic or technical expertise is not necessary , nor is it sufficient to ensure the success of government officials . indeed , many of my harvard colleagues would be a terrible policymaker because of a lack of leadership , leadership , or other personal skills . and many excellent political leaders - for example , george washington and dwight eisenhower - were not intellectuals . technocrats can play a useful role as honest brokers when traditional politicians are discredited , or when they are not involved . moreover , they have credibility , which is a lack of a desire to re-elect them , either because their term in office is limited in advance , or because they prefer a quiet academic life .
today , huge investments in critical infrastructure , industrial development and urban development , which are essential for the expansion of the world 's population , which will reach a total of 9 billion by 2050 , are implemented without adequate consideration for the risk of disaster . if there is no comprehensive effort to protect these new economic assets , the cost of the damage will rise in the next decade . in this sense , climate change forecasts should challenge politicians and entrepreneurs to recalibrate their perceptions of exposure and disasters . it is necessary to recognize that there is no natural disaster , only a disastrous impact on infrastructure , including jobs , homes , roads , schools and hospitals . after 2004 , the indian ocean tsunami - which destroyed 11 countries " coast , caused more than 150,000 deaths , half a million damage , and more than $ 10 billion in damages - 168 governments agreed to the action framework for the accident .
two years ago , scientists from nature conservatory and its partners published a new research report on the nature of solutions that could be used to combat climate change . yet natural climate solutions have not attracted much attention - and even less resources . fortunately , it may begin to change , and it may be that we will begin to change . in septum , solutions based on natural factors have been significantly important in new york city for a week of climate change . although this event did not take place in the context of the general antónio guterres " clear steps to increase the contributions of the national authorities by 2020 , " it offered the platform for a new generation of climate and natural advocates .
a couple of weeks ago , the government had to admit that rouhani was doing a nuclear deal . the irish show of popular support for the rouhani is , in fact , the best guarantee that the spirit of nuclear power will remain unchanged . but trump wo n't be easy for rouhani , and he wo n't be able to make it easy . to ensure that ian continues to pursue international commitments - thereby protecting the nuclear agreement that trump is unwilling to defend - rouhani 's government must work hard to improve relations with neighbouring countries . in addition , it will need to adopt a constructive position against the syrian conflict , which will make it clear that ian is not moving freely .
ridiculous cases are continuing , and more people are being dragged into them by others . the mainstream independent media is not even aware of the inconsistencies in the fear of provoking government or gülen . these cases will eventually collapse under the weight of their collective absurdity , and they will not be able to understand them . but the damage done will be far from suffering hundreds of innocent people who have been locked up under false pretensions . the hope that turkey will eventually release its authoritarian vestiges and become a stable democracy will be torn apart .
in the same way , the british have created a " contingent reserve " agreement , which would " prevent short-term balance-of-payments pressures , provide mutual support and strengthen financial stability . " but russia is unlikely to be able to draw on this emergency credit line in the current crisis . more recently , chinese minister , yi , has pledged to help russia in the war . but his vague language reflected a greater hesitation , which would likely persist until the crisis was over . in short , the governance mechanisms dominated by the west and the new british authorities turned against russia .
they will also try to reduce the dependence of japan on exports and rethink the production facilities to low-wage countries . the economic impact of politics will be less dynamic : it will not be enough for congress to cooperate , but policy will be silenced , and not fuel more active . the polarization of congress would maintain political uncertainty , maintain debt negotiations and deficit negotiations , and limit economic growth . from stymiing medium-term fiscal reforms to the delay in the necessary excessive hauls in the labor market and housing market , the dysfunction of congress would keep us out of its capacity , and would also be consumed by potential results . in other countries , the causal direction is mainly due to economic and political developments .
paris - the riots that have raged across the country may have many reasons , but it is rarely mentioned by a fracas that has left the greenery to george papandreou 's traditional socialist party , pasok , and a radical faction who refuses to live with the euro union or the modern economy . to varying degrees , this division is paralyzing the socialist parties across the eurozone . the fact that the traditional left is so immobile in today 's economic crisis is not so special , and that it is not thriving on renewed capitalism 's doubts , but that the eurozone 's socialist parties have failed to make serious political inroads . in countries where they have power , like ain , they are now very unpopular . where they are in opposition , as well as in france and italy , they are disorderly - as well as in german social democrats , even though they are part of the ruling coalition .
the answer to the 11th and the dominique strauss-kahn 's recent encounter with the maid of the african chambermaid in the new york hotel is very small , except for one thing : it was once again invoked by a cultural conflict . whatever happened between the former director of international money and his accuser , he was arrested and imprisoned in front of the press , as a criminal suspect , was criticized by the police . one of the allegations made by a french publicist recently is that the arrest was typical of american puritanism . the french , as he claimed , are from latin culture , and they have a more liberal understanding of sexual behaviour . they are more tolerant to human fragility and are more appreciative of the art of seduction .
and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur . after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years .
they have a reason to be proud of them , and they have a reason to be proud . the confidence of the leaders and caution : it is a psychological source of democracy and real freedom , and we will never be able to divert them back to our country . no one had ever doubted that ukraine had changed considerably in his twelve years of independence . but no one , even brave men and women , who had camped in the snow before the ukraine parliament , had seen the barrel of guns - they knew with certainty that these changes had taken place in the hands of fear and apathy . the success of their defiance shows the power of the idea that will make president leonid kuchma and his acolytes out of his mind : that democracy means responsibility for the fate of one person in his own hands .
the israeli prime ministers are expected to come in two different ways : a heavily accented man from the eastern europe and a grizzled soldier who speaks well before receiving the latest american or international demands for concessions , talks and assistance . while the previous prime ministers , such as menachem , and the shaiitzhak shamir , were not verse to lecturing , they lacked strategic skills . the unwillingness of the network to compromise disconcerts , confuses and often enrages americans . his constant acquisition of the strategic environment of the island , the security requirements , the red lines , and the jewish history are offset only by conciliatory talks about reopening the negotiations , which are immediately rejected by the most important people who , like him , are afraid of weakness . moreover , the unsentimental assessment of the medium east of the network does not match the idea of the obama administration - in thrall , its collapsing romance with moderate islamists - and its loyal supporters among jewish americans .
followers are more likely to attribute charisma to leaders when they feel strong need for change , often in terms of personal , organisational , or social crisis . for example , the british public did not consider winston churchill as a charismatic leader in 1939 , but in a year later , his vision , confidence , and ability to communicate with him was charisma , and after the fall of the france and the evacuation of dunkirk , he was worried about the britons . and then , in 1945 , when the public focused on winning the war to build a welfare state , churchill was excluded from office . his charisma did not predict defeat ; the change in the needs of followers . in practice , charisma is a vague synonym for " personal magnetism . "
the government has also secured a eu-wide agreement that ireland will retain a permanent place at the table , rather than reduce the amount of the european commission . this successful negotiation has provided the government with considerable space to breathe , which will lead to a more effective referendum campaign . this combination of legal guarantees and economic circumstances helps to mobilize most of the parties in the agreement . in recent weeks , the polls showed that yes side commands a majority of 62 % to 23 % , and 15 % of the electorate did not agree . but the picture is far from clear , and it 's not going to be clear .
the decision to reject the merger or to grant investment benefits to a politically motivated foreign competitor could make sense of economic importance , while raising an eyebrow in the foreign-policy circles . the solution is not to interfere with competition rules , but to provide those responsible for the security , some say in the decision-making process . to that end , in the next document , which is approved by foreign policy experts and other economists , we propose that the instead of a high-representative foreign and security policy is entitled to object to the security reasons for the proposed merger or investment decisions of the european commission . member states have already introduced such procedures and should therefore be replaced . finally , instead , it is necessary to develop its financial instruments and support the international use of the euro .
the newly approved bill - clearly aimed at representatives of the islamic army in the legislative assembly ( parliament ) - would allow mks to be rejected for disloyalty to the state . foreigners focused on human rights and peacemaking , and are being investigated as foreign agents . democracy is a strategic asset to the island , as democratic israel is a natural element in the western alliance . while the west did not waste any time imposing sanctions on president vincent putin 's russia , after his rebuttal of crimea , he did not punish the profession of the israel in the country of the palestinian . but the more israel is taking on the tricky practices , the weaker the weaker he will be associated with his strategic rear guard in the west .
the korean intervention in the bombing has made this strategy a complete success : nato has not suffered a single victim in the battle , but approximately 300 kosher , 209 serb , and 3 chinese civilians have been killed . this approach to the duties of the national leader , which has been bluntly and honestly stated , is forcing us to consider the fundamental ethical issue . what extent should political leaders have a role in promoting the interests of citizens and what extent should they be concerned about the welfare of people in the world ? " if you want to be the world leader , you must know how to take care of the entire earth and not just the american industry . " but the question is not just for those who want to become world leaders .
both of these fronts were the lack of strategic vision of the eu eu eu , which made the impression that europe was constantly outmaneuvered by russian president vladimir putin . it is increasingly increasingly apparent that ukraine is being locked up in a " frozen conflict " - a speciality in foreign policy . indeed , the situation in the ukraine is a tactical victory for russia , with a fragile but lasting ceasefire - and accompanying legislation that provides donetsk and luhansk with considerable political autonomy - allowing russia to bring the conflict to the border . moreover , the late implementation of the key elements of the association agreement with ukraine in the eu eu eu eu area is clear that russia is currently dictating the terms of the euukraine engagement . in europe , the kremlin has successfully developed a strategy of division and rule , in particular in the light of the hungary 's decision to stop gas flows into the ukraine .
with a weak dollar hanging on the ground like a sword of damocles over the world economy , nearly everyone is washing up american spendthrift habits . but did anyone ever think how hard americans have to work to make others look good ? thanks to the us trade deficit , the biggest headache of all developing countries " finance minister is now trying to keep the currency from rising too quickly against the dollar . when did it last happen , what did you say when i was in the middle of a year ? chronic countries with debt crisis from mexico to russia to russia are all fighting for capital inflows from investors who seek to end the dollar collapse .
the new york - hurricane harvey left his waking lives and huge damage to the property estimated at $ 150-180 billion . but the rains that flooded the coast of texas for nearly a week , and the hurricane that is about to reach south florida , are also causing deep questions about the economic system and politics of the united states . of course , it is ironic that the event , which is so close to climate change , is happening in a state where there are so many climate-change denial - and that the economy is dependent on fossil fuels that lead to global warming . of course , no climate change can be directly related to the increase in greenhouse gases . but scientists have long assumed that such an increase would increase not only average temperatures , but also weather fluctuations - and especially extreme events such as harvest hurricane .
instead of putting together , each new task divided the eu into smaller groups . the euro has divided the north and south , the country 's northern and refugee crisis has spread to the east and west . pro-euro countries must use the resources of discontent and rethink forms used to express the european ideal . instead , the idea of interdependence was based on a mechanical idea that would reduce the conflict . by linking europe 's production methods - first through the european community of coal and steel , and later through the common market and the euro - the euro - the euro was hoping that europe 's states would be linked so closely that the war would no longer be possible .
today , in nigeria , the main question is not whether president ousegun obasanjo will be released after the second term ( and the final ) is over , but who will succeed . given the history of nigeria 's tight military dictatorships , it is a real progress . unfortunately , it 's not necessarily the president 's work , but he 's not going to do it . attempts by obasanjo 's supporters to convince the national assembly to change the constitution so that obasanjo can proceed in office beyond two terms , and he has encountered a solid wall of resistance . government and trade activities , which are virtually justified by the end of the spring as activists of democracy , in the context of the alliance with politicians and lawmakers , against the third term , fought with the obasanjo allies to thwart the proposed bill .
parfit 's response to this argument leads him to claim that he may be even more bolder than his defense of objectivism in ethics . he considers three main theories of what we should do - one that is based on kant , one of the social traditions of hobbies , locke , rousseau , and contemporary philosophers john rawls and teplon , and one of bentham 's utilitarianism - and insists that the theory of kantian and social contract must be revised to defend themselves . then , in his view , these revised theories coincide with a particular type of subsequent consequences , which is a theory of the same broad family as utilitarianism . if it 's appropriate , there 's much less disagreement between moral theories than we thought . the defenders of each of these theories are in a vivid sentence of parfit " climbing the same mountain on the opposite side . "
with the rise of a business company , large family businesses have generally disappeared . but that does not mean that the company is a good entity to engage in altruism - although its various stakeholders can spend much of the income they earn from the company and other sources of altruistic nature . instead of csr , we should have psr . it is also possible to argue with psr , since the request for csr is becoming a way of " passing the dollar " - avoiding personal responsibility for good . this is a flip of blame for corporations from obesity to scalding from spilled coffee - both of which have been subject to legal suits in recent years .
tokyo - the recent trip to asia by the hillary clinton may be regarded as the most important visit to the region of the united states diplomat since henry kissinger 's secret mission to beijing in 1971 . kissinger 's mission has triggered a diplomatic revolution , and the government has already taken a break . the renewal of relations between us-chinese has shifted the overall balance of power at the height of the cold war and has prepared a way to open china 's economy - a decision that has defined the current world . what clinton did during her asian tour would mean either the end of the era that kissinger had launched four decades ago , or the start of a new phase . clinton 's tour has produced the most obvious signals , but america is unwilling to accept china 's efforts to promote hegemony .
chinese demand is not only growing , but as incomes rise , its composition is changing to more sophisticated goods and services . china 's role is changing : once a western supplier of cheap goods is sold , it will become a major customer of western products . this represents a major opportunity for advanced economies to rebalance their growth and employment , provided they are able to compete with the appropriate parts of the development chain . the growing chinese income also means structural changes in china , as growth is expected to be a shift in activities that are more valuable . it will be important to develop technologies and knowledge , but china must begin to produce new technologies , and also to absorb western tools and skills .
in the past , french diplomacy excels in the form of a great deal of profit . but under merkel , germany avoided such agreements , preferring to change the status quo or increase , as it usually ended up paying extra . the hyperactive diplomacy of macron exposes a complex of inferiority after the imperial empire , whose symptoms - whether brexit or putinism - impede the normalisation of europe and limit the mobilization of instead instead of anti-balance china and the united states . macron 's rhetoric suggests he wants to fight the symptoms of these diseases . but it seems to me that his recent actions are being repeated by the others .
dublin - the needs of the euro and the wishes of the europeans are in no way a problem . at a time when strong coordinated measures are needed to prevent financial collapse in the european union , the popular support that has led europe 's integration into the last six decades is weakening . after nearly 70 years of peace , the europeans have forgotten why unity is so important and indulging nationalist sentiment , regardless of its potential consequences . they do not understand that their economies are too closely linked to the work of independent economic policy . this failure is based on electoral policy in individual countries , which is why politicians are forced to act as if they can only address national policies .
skeptics have a point , but they 're too far away from each other . first of all , it 's too early to judge the merits of the argument . the iraq war will take full account of its effects on the middle east for about a decade . the election in january 2005 clearly took place in the region 's positive step . in the last six months , elections have been held in the lbanon and local elections in the city of saudi arabia .
in 1989 , the people of the region brought them back to europe their diversity and wealth , their vivacity , mysteries and memories , and their old and new desires . and they have brought lessons that move from closed society to open , both possible and very difficult . as thomas mann once wrote : " freedom is more complicated than power . " freedom changes the structure and substance of the selection and liability of individuals and individuals . it highlights the contrast between initiative and apathy , business and obedience , competition and total dependence on the state that makes it a little unnerving .
cambridge - in 2017 , a major tax reform is a major part of the agenda for the united states . for years , the republic of representatives has prepared a detailed plan for the redevelopment of corporate and personal income . these plans can now be the basis for legislative action , with the republican majority in the senate and the republican president in the white house . in particular , the proposed reform of the company 's tax reform is particularly important . i believe that this will have a very favorable impact on business investments , productivity growth , and economic growth .
this alliance between the two parties has seriously disrupted the fundamental values of the western union . palme and oskar lafontaine , then one of the leaders of the german opposition , did not see the cold war as a conflict of freedom and tyranny . when palme visited east germany in 1984 , he never criticized the repression , nor the wall of the berlin . instead , palme praised east german 's leader , eric honecker , underlining common objectives and mutual struggle for peace and development . the speech of palme was mentioned in the speech " detente , trust " and friendship , but never freedom . "
in the former europei colonies , there were various revolution , where native nations did not want to be ruled by western forces , which were so unpleasantly defeated by japan . the vietnamese , the indonesians , the filipinos , the burmese , the indians and the malays wanted freedom . these aspirations were often expressed in united countries , which were founded in 1945 . the united nations , as well as the european unity dream , was also part of the 1945 agreement . for a moment many prominent people - for example , albert einstein - believed that only the world government could provide global peace .
one architects of the problem , hank paulson , who advocated deregulation and allowed banks to take on even more leveraging , was no surprise that the government had turned from one policy to another - each strategy was supported by absolute conviction until the end of the process was abandoned . even if the confidence was really important , the economy would have fallen into a deep pit . moreover , the small action was aimed at reducing the financial system . but the financial crisis is only one of the most serious crises in the country : the macroeconomic problem is exacerbated by the decline in half the population . those who would spend their money would n't have had enough , and those who had the money would n't be spending .
in the context of foreign capital , the stagnating private investment in tradable goods is a particularly strong warning signal that the government must not be able to handle the amount of the investment . officials have a simple choice : to maintain strong prudential controls on capital flows , or to invest much of their own funds in self-insurance by accumulating large foreign reserves . the deeper problem is the excessive financial burden of the global economy that has been in place since 1990 . the political dilemmas , which have led to an increase in inequality , greater volatility , and a reduction in the scope of real economy management , will continue to occupy policymakers in the coming decades . it is true , but it is not helpful to say that governments have only blamed themselves for being rushed to this wild ride .
even a relatively small amount of material , such as cobalt-60 , used in radiotherapy , could cause serious damage if the conventional explosives were added to the so-called " dirty " explosives ( or otherwise deliberately used to expose the public to dangerous radiation ) . foreign and energy ministers will be able to strengthen the global framework for nuclear security at international conference on nuclear security : this will be the first event that will be open to all countries in the world . at the top of the programme , improvements should be ratified by the essential instrument of nuclear security - measures to protect nuclear materials . the proposed amendment would require countries to protect nuclear materials at the time of their use or storage , not just in international transport , as is the case .
this time , the initiative came from one of the few who invited his pakistani counterpart , prime minister , prime minister , youth , and gilani , to visit mohali , near the new delhi , to watch the two countries play the semi-final in the cricket world cup . the game was on the march of 30 , and pakistan was losing its position narrowly . but both countries were not evenly aligned with each other on the political side . the troika , which is currently in control of pakistan - the president , the prime minister and the head of the military - is the prime minister who carries the smallest authority . gilani was sitting next to singh , watching the game , but in the end , it would decide how bilateral relations would move forward .
indonesia argues that the right of the nation to control all information about the local viruses should be protected by the same mechanism that the united state of food and agriculture is using to guarantee the rights of the poor countries to bear the rights of ownership and patents on the seed of their original plants . the national authority may register plants , share their seeds and gain profits from the resulting products . this useful policy reduces the use of procedures that sometimes allow multinationals and rich governments to gain outrageous profits from domestic agriculture . but it is a dangerous folly to extend this policy to viruses , and to the world . if the term " viral sovereignty " was used 25 years ago for hiv , we would not have a central storage of thousands of hives today , which would allow scientists to test the drugs and vaccines against all the strains of the virus that would help them .
the biggest challenge of the new government will be to implement reforms that will enable it to catch up with its neighbors " economic results after years of bad policies and neglect . this requires an increase in investment in innovation and the use of human resources . labor productivity increased by an average annual rate of 0.9 % in 1992-2011 , the lowest in the area of the population . since 2001 , unit labor costs have increased faster than real jobs and are weakening the competitiveness of the economy vis-à-vis developing countries . in the last 10 years , the share of total exports decreased from 3.9 % to 2.9 % .
but the technical capability is not the only one , not even the main issue . the more important reason for the contradictory reasons is that citizens are increasingly distrust of experts . there 's a misconception in the job , and i 'm not going to be able to . policy wonks consider themselves unbiased purveyors of high-quality , evidence-based advice . informed citizens are reasonably concerned that the wonk concerned may be in a thrall to a specific ideology or methodology ; that advice may be politically motivated , or that advisers can adjust their advice to their professional interests ( for example , how to get this plum on the wall street after they leave the government .
any party 's combination is on top - and the coalition of helmut kohl must still be regarded as a narrow favourite - it will be enjoyed by a greedy majority , depending on the unlikely support of its political opponents . so the bacteria seem to be stuck in the doldrums for a while , and they 're supposed to be stuck . the price of inaction is significant , and the price of inaction is high . while exports are booming , unemployment is still high , and the number of people in the world is still high . disillusionment with politics is growing , and it can even bring down the right-wing populists that have been spared by democratic germans .
europe 's position as the world 's biggest trade bloc , with nearly 40 % of international trade , and the growing importance of the euro - despite the crisis - is that instead of us , as well as ours , the agenda for negotiating a new global book can be set . the difference is that america is acting decisively , and that 's why it 's not . of course , europe is taking on a moral high level that america has largely abandoned because of its bad adventures in iraq and afghanistan . the european leadership in climate change and development assistance could be a basis for new moral power . but there is no sign that governments will take advantage of this opportunity , and that they will be able to do so .
madrid - who has secured the fifth term ( and his fourth in line ) as the prime minister of israel , binyamin netanyahu is on his way to pass david ben-gurion , the founding father of the state , as the leader of his country 's longest-serving leader . yet the israel of the network would hardly be recognized by the ben-gurion , who sought to combine the jewish character of the country with democracy . as l.p. hartley wrote in the opening of the road : " the past is foreign countries : they do things differently . " after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries .
in septum 2008 , for example , the former president of the herzog issued a polemical title " stop the ecj ! " he accused the luxury judges of the court of law that he had gained ever more powers at the expense of the member states , and urged the constitutional court to cancel several controversial decisions . the broadside of herzog resonated in europe , where there was a considerable disquiet about " judicial activism " for some time , and some see an irreversible trend towards strengthening the ecj and other eu institutions . in many member states , the decision of the court of justice has been raised , in particular , on the left , trade unions and social movements , which focus on the alleged zeal of the court in dealing with business in relation to workers " interests . these arguments were successfully submitted during 2005 by reference to the constitutional agreement in france and ireland during the referendum on the lisbon treaty .
countries must also facilitate the ability of workers to change jobs by reforms to the labor market and social security networks . this means that the focus is on future labor-market policies aimed at protecting workers in existing jobs , future measures , such as innovative insurance mechanisms and active labour market policies . social contracts based on official long-term employment relations will also need to be retracted , with benefits such as pension and health care , which have been reinforced and adapted to the development of work arrangements , including the expansion of the " employment " economy . in this context , several proposals have already been submitted , including general basic income , which is currently being managed in the area of finance and some of the sub-states , such as ontario , canada , negative income tax , and various types of portable social security accounts that benefit the workers of the pool . on both fronts , the france is a positive example of the two fronts .
general robert caslen , the pentagon 's deputy director for the war on terrorism , said : " we do n't kill them faster than they were created . " we are also failing to use the soft power of the soft , but we are not able to use it . according to caslen , " we at the pentagon are behind our adversaries in using communications - either recruit or train . " the way we use military power also affects rumsfeld 's relationship with the military . on the basis of september 11 , there was a great deal of sympathy and understanding of the world 's military response to the taliban .
our study concludes that india can have a faster economic and industrial growth , higher energy consumption and cleaner environment . but that 's not what happened to me so far , and i 'm not going to let you know . the air , the soil and the pollution of the water have grown , and hundreds of thousands of people have died every year . the key to the clean future is clean technology whose costs are constantly falling , and they will continue . sometimes , these technologies are paid for by themselves , and they will be adopted .
the private sector is also bringing innovation to the classroom , which is why it is not a good thing to do . for example , some providers are developing a teaching model , where students can watch videos created by teachers online outside the classroom , so that valuable teaching students can focus on interacting , rather than lecturing . similarly , experienced teachers can now provide interactive e-learning to many classes , even if they are hundreds of miles away . as a result , students who have not yet been built , or who have not yet been able to acquire a higher education , can still receive a number of qualified teachers . after all , a lecture from a good teacher - even if he 's broadcast via the internet - is better than to stand up to time with an adult without training .
the obama administration has already moved against chinese exports of tires and steel pipes , but this year 's confrontation will be far beyond the trade . when congress is discussing climate change , and some lawmakers demand a system of trade , others will ask why america should accept binding commitments to reduce emissions while the chinese refuse . china 's leaders , in a bad mood , will not be able to play scapegoat , using the national pride to strengthen their position and strengthen their hand in negotiations . the chinese government has invested heavily in recent years in state-owned companies and in private " national champions , " in particular , in order to ensure that china 's profits are obtained from markets , while the government is in control of the biggest risks . the government is often helping them to increase their market leverage .
but , given the possibility that today 's low inflation may be caused by constant shocks in supply , they are unwilling to relieve themselves more . so , even if central banks do n't want to give up their official inflation target by 2 % , they are willing to extend the time plan to achieve it , as they have done before and over again , they have effectively agreed that inflation may be too short for longer . otherwise , they would have to keep their unconventional monetary policy for much longer , including quantitative easing and negative policy rates , which would not be comfortable with most central banks ( except for the japan bank ) . this central bank 's patience is a risk of weakening inflation expectations , which is why it is now being reduced . but continuing much longer with unconventional monetary policies also threatens to cause inflation , excessive credit growth , and bubbles .
to achieve a similar agreement with similar influence and size , world leaders , especially ours and china , must be under similarly high pressure . a global pact would need to be urgently needed , not an attractive option . what would convince chinese leaders that they must quickly strengthen the open world economy , which enabled china 's economic growth based on exports ? one such catalyst could be a financial crisis that came from a risk-laden shadow banking system . the competition for global leadership could also serve this purpose , but it is also a challenge .
the famous versatile versatile rendition of the delaying tactics of british and french before the end of world war ii should be a warning for french president nicolas sarkozy . in a fierce anti-immigrant passion for short-term political gain , he will be disrespected first and then defeated . although most french people can now sympathize with sarkozy 's immigranate rhetoric , it is not guaranteed that they will be re-elected in 2012 . it 's not the performance of sarkozy as president that most of the french reject ; it is his essence . when the french are rising unemployment , and they are dominated by fears of the future , they need a soothing father or mother figure , not a jittery and manipulative leader , who are willing to compromise the ethics and reputation of the france , which is a proud tradition that all citizens are entitled to equal treatment under the law .
millions will end up in a lengthy displacement , average 25 years , stuck in limbo , and they wo n't know when they 'll be back home . in 2016 , developed countries should agree to adopt a total of millions of refugees each year , either through a new settlement or by issuing humanitarian , students , workers and other visas . with canada alone , it is clear that this year will bring 50,000 refugees into the settlement of the syrian refugees , so it is clear that this target is possible . international communities must also support the integration of refugees into large host countries such as turkey , kenya , lebanon and ordan . these countries are only given a fraction of the $ 3,000 000 000 000 000 000 a year for refugee , which is required annually to provide adequate accommodation , food , health care , education , and training for employment during the first few years of the relocation .
berkeley - inequality is in the public 's mind almost everywhere in the world . in fact , in the two largest democracies in the world , india and the united states , the general public movement against inequality and the elite greed of the world is becoming a major issue in the coming national elections . in both countries , social inequalities have been a cause for the decline in the last few decades . in india , some historically disadvantaged groups ( especially among the poorest ) are now politically assertive . the most important vestiges of caste discrimination are gradually disappearing , and the most important signs of caste discrimination are the same .
but unemployment is still rising in countries that are heavily indebted to the south , and the results are still lagging behind the germany and other northern european countries . the main reason for the delay is not only a low demand or a large amount of debt . there is a great difference between unit labor costs - real wages adjusted for productivity - in germany and in heavily indebted countries . when the crisis began , the cost of production in the greenback was about 30 % higher than in the gerlot , so the greenback exported very little and imported much . production costs in other countries with a high share of debt were 20-25 % higher than in germany .
the most important thing is that , despite the russian army that has been massacred against us , we are embarking on an election campaign . next month , the citizens of ukraine will be free to choose a new president - the best thing to do is to get russian propaganda about the alleged failure to promote democracy . and yet , as the ukrainians seek to rebuild our country after the fierce rule of viktor yanukovych , we face a new threat , as a " peace offensive " - the old core of soviet diplomacy , designed to undermine western resolve . russian president van van van gintin , who recently called us president barack obama to seek out diplomatic talks , and then a russian white newspaper about how to solve the crisis in the production of kremlin , is a peace attack that is a sign of peace . putin 's gambit is akin to the notorious yalta conference in 1945 , where joseph stalin made winston churchill and franklin a co-conspirator in the european union , which enslaved half the continent for nearly half a century .
in 1973 , the defenders of dimona destroyed a wayward civilian airliner heading for the reactor and killed 108 people . but the 1991 persian gulf war was a little upset by any solace that the israel could have taken from the past . iraq 's scud missiles bombed tel aviv and one approached the dimona . in 2006 , hezbollah 's bombing of the northern island demonstrated the country 's vulnerability to the attack on missiles . and while the ballistic missile defenses of israel , which surround the dimona , may be better than the patriot system , which failed in 1991 , syria 's more advanced rockets and iran 's shahab 3 rockets are more challenging than the missiles of the saddam .
moreover , financial authorities " ability to stimulate the economy is limited by the fact that the rest of the world is unwilling to collect additional dollar reserves . until recently , investors hoped that the federal reserve would do anything to prevent the recession , because it did it in the past . now they must recognize that the feed must not be in a position to do so . with oil , food , and other commodities , and with the renminbi a little faster , the food must also be worried about inflation . if interest rates were reduced for a certain period of time , the dollar would be under pressure again , and long-term bonds would increase in return .
and when he gets married and has his own children , he will benefit from two educated , employed parents , which means he will have twice as much literate conversation at home , twice as much contacts as possible , and twice as much support for success . educated mothers , pushy mothers , make a difference in what they want . as secretary of state hillary clinton put it in the news , " the world must think strategically and creatively about the women 's potential for growth . studies show that helping women to access trade and growth businesses helps create jobs and increase incomes . " but the worst thing on the planet is that you have to force uneducated women to stay at home , that 's more socially acceptable than that you have to choose to reduce their income for everyone .
one of the factors that leads uk to a sense of unease in relations with the increasingly bureaucratized europe is that its values and institutions are closer to us , or other former english colonies . by the 1990 " s , british skeptics coached the term " anglosphere " to describe a model that was more successful and more expansive than the term " anglosphere . " we are a " other woman " who undermines britain 's loyalty to instead of being an attractive permanent partner . the british have lost much of the ability to effectively contribute to the reform of the euro . indeed , the last time britain had a strong voice in europe was over two decades ago .
but the battle between pro-and anti-euro countries is a question of what is really at stake - and thus the focus of electoral debate : how europe can produce sustained economic growth . this question should be addressed in the main way , rather than an endless defense against euroskepticism , for the parties seeking to improve the euro for all . broad-based recovery - in terms of investment , demand and employment - is the best weapon to face those who want to destroy the euro project . the upcoming election will make the public decision on whether the austerity policies have been successful or not . but it will also determine whether the eurozone will be able to maintain its social model and protect its framework of rights and freedom in a world that will not wait for europe to overcome their differences .
the concept of systemic risk is then not only in the eyes of the owner , but it is not possible to predict it . the mexican crisis in 1994-1995 was considered a systemic risk from washington , but not from most of the european capitals . americans thought the europeans were parochial ; they thought we were unduly affected by the border between 2000 and mexico . everyone agrees that ecuador did not pose a systemic risk ( though it was an emergency ! ) , but what about the brain ? and who , before the 1998 government , thought russia 's failure would cause global financial panic ?
the eurozone 's southern euro must reduce the wage costs of the eurozone to strengthen the competitiveness they have lost since they adopted the common currency . the concerns of these differences have also reached the task force , which is managed by the president of the european union , van rompuy , which is to create basic reforms for the coordination of economic policy rules . the main proposal from the first meeting of the task force was to create indicators of competitiveness and force member states to adopt " corrective measures " if the eu group found big differences . but this approach is a risk that leads to a bad direction , and that 's why we 're not here . competitiveness , which is usually measured at unit labor costs , is a relative concept .
the city of mexico - during the spanish civil war , thousands of young americans were fighting for fascism in the " abraham lincoln brigade . " today , when the threat that president donald trump poses to the rule of law , human rights and international order , there is a new movement of global resistance to democracy and decency . the resistance could be used for three tactics , and the resistance would be a great deal . one approach is simply to wait and hope that trump will turn into a lame duck by damning the revelations of his government . however , trump could be prevented from doing so or excluded from office under the 25th amendment of the constitution , if enough of its own government 's members did not consider it impossible to carry out its duties .
no one would do anything more to make the world less dangerous than a substantial reduction in oil consumption . and no one would do more to reduce global oil consumption than a sharp increase in gasoline tax in the country that consumed more than any other : if americans had to pay for gasoline , they would have used less . no one would have done it immediately , and i would n't have done it immediately . in the short term , americans would have to make modest economic sacrifices in the form of higher fuel prices .
new york - internet companies should be on the edge of the cut , but sometimes the reality and buzz of the conflict . consider groupon : the focus is on the group 's power , but its real job is an old emergency for the sale of mail and coupons . but groupon is spreading this model to a much wider audience - not so much to buy , but to traders who offer coupons . in fact , the groupon is designed to sell what other internet companies do on yellow pages or advertising , which is why traders are encouraged to use modern technology to get to their customers . the model clearly makes sense for many customers : the coupon now has more than 50 million participants and aims at 150 million customers at the end of the year .
the prevailing view is that the trend in decline is largely reflected in the decline in balance or " natural " interest rates , which are caused by changes in the saving and investment base . in other words , the world 's supply of savings has increased , despite weak growth prospects , and increased uncertainty in advanced economies , owing to declining demand for investment . this perceived decline in interest rates is regarded as a key obstacle to economic recovery , as it prevents monetary policy from being able to provide sufficient stimulus to reduce real interest rates , owing to zero of the nominal rate . how to stop the decline in balance rates is becoming a subject of a lively debate . however , the role of financial factors is , in the absence of a debate , to explain the decline in real rates .
as enrico moretti at the university of california in berkeley , he emphasized in his book the new geographical characteristics of the work , the salience of this new division is clear : the number of graduates of universities is half the total population of the most wealthy metropolitan area , but four times less in the area of the crisis . economic shocks tend to exacerbate this political divide , but it is not only a matter of time . those who live and work in traditional manufacturing areas , caught in globalization , are losing many of their jobs , housing wealth , and the wealth of their children and relatives , are highly connected . in a fascinating new research , mit 's david autor and his co-authors examined political implications . they found that the district in which the economy was seriously hit by chinese exports responded by replacing moderate representatives with more radical politicians - either from left or right .
the commission of the investigation commission collected information on the identification of some of the persons responsible for the offences examined , but did not disclose them . the names of the persons responsible should be disclosed by the commission or by another body , which is created by the committee on human rights . they should be notified to them and given the opportunity to refute their findings . if they do not respond or do not convince their responses , they should be published and their names and crimes should be reported . the human rights council could act on its own , and it would not be possible to act .
the scars of colonialism are fresher than anywhere in europe ; the country has the largest muslim minority in europe ; and , with a slight look of weakness and division , the extreme right is in opinion polls . these ingredients could be a recipe for disaster , and they could be used as a recipe for the disease . it seems to me that le pen is already being turned into a form , according to the pen . " national unity is a pathetic political ploy , " she complained , as she was not invited to the gathering on the day of the attack . but if the right leaders are in charge , the 7th januaries could bring together a sense of collective purpose and political recovery .
this means an increase in capital and human capital in the sectors of the economy , both marketable and non-marketable . on the tradable side , structural changes should be sought and the transition to production components of global supply chains with higher added value . innovation and conditions that support it - including competition and free entry and exit from the market - play an important role . if policymakers choose a model based on a large state-dominated sector protected from internal and external competition , it is unlikely that innovation objectives will be met , which will have a negative impact on future growth . in the meantime , the non-tradable side should be extended to a growing extent .
of course , the election itself is not a democracy , but it is a democracy . these cases are considered when elections are held by a majority of ethnic or religious groups , which then go to a tough minority - for example , the outcome of which is often seen in the balkans . then there are cases where the leader 's election is considered to be legitimizing the subsequent emergence of dictatorship . this is the case in russia , which , after the first victory of president vincent putin in 2000 , has become a post-war democracy . this year , the next election , not even free , will be a new term .
but the irish are nothing like the nazis , and there is no such country as the soviet union , which threatens to threaten us with president richard nixon , who was driving to beijing in 1972 . equally problematic , it is that the two negotiations are often compared to each other . they do n't have much time , they do n't have much in common . they share that their " success " was largely caused by the sense that powerful external threats made the alternative - no deal - much worse . in the case of greece , the negotiations were driven by a specter of a defunct greece , who had joined russia 's president , vladimir putin , with dangerous ambitions of revisionists , or as a channel for the migrants bound by the euro .
what if it comes from the use of a better drug to improve the performance ? for athletes who want to clean up the competition , the threat of being defeated by a competitor who is not faster , stronger or more dedicated , but who will take the drug to gain the advantage is deeply personal . when drugs are banned , some athletes will use them anyway . if we ban drugs in olympic games , we owe them to athletes to deter them from detecting and punishing them . integrity seems like an old-fashioned idea .
meanwhile , the problem was compounded by external forces , and the problem was not yet known . south korea 's admission to the oecd requires the government to dismantle capital controls and to expose the economy to short-term " hot money . " more generally , the state felt pressure from the imf and the treasury to remove the restriction of capital-flow , which increased the risks and continued to maintain the exchange rate . this sketch of the crisis highlights how much has changed in the next 20 years . for starters , the crisis countries have increased their investment rates and expected growth to reach sustainable levels .
and behind that , the dollar wo n't go anywhere , and it 's not going anywhere . the euro or yen will not replace it , as europe and japan have serious economic problems . the renminbi will come , but not before 2020 , when shanghai will become a first-class financial center . and even then , the renminbi will probably share an international stage with the dollar , not to replace it . the only thing that could cause the dollar 's demise would be reckless economic mismanagement .
and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur . after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years .
i and a lot of other rich americans contribute millions of dollars to the local organization , which was held in the presidential election in 2004 . we are deeply concerned about the direction of bush administration and the world of united states . if americans reject the president 's policy in the polls , america can write down the doctrine of the bush as a temporary aberration and return to its rightful place . if american voters support these policies , we will have to live with enmity in the world and endure a vicious cycle of escalating violence . in this effort , i have put $ 10 million in the " american " campaign , which is a popular group of advocates for advertising to highlight the government 's actions .
while russia has not overcome us , 20 % of respondents have declared the country 's " best friend " in the middle east and north africa . but russia is likely to disappoint its fans in the middle east , not least as a regional broker . after the american peace negotiations with the taliban , and nearly 30 years after the decade-long soviet occupation , the kremlin stepped in to mediate negotiations between the taliban and the representatives of other groups of afghan . but the middle east - a region of manifestations of religious , ethnic , political , historical , and strategic - has exhausted the commitment of foreign actors . there is no reason to think that russia , which has never been particularly inclined to build peace in the long term , will be able to mediate , let alone underwrite , and keep quiet .
but experience shows that the decision to retire or work for less hours is affected by the compensation received by the members of the group . this amount is partly reflected in the fact that the employment of employees who collect social security and medical care is subject to the income tax they pay . the salary tax paid by employees is 6.65 % ( employers pay the same amount ) and is also subject to a personal income tax . moreover , due to complex rules governing social security benefits , the older employee , who pays the salary tax , is unlikely to receive any extra benefits . for many older workers , it is not about whether to work , but how much .
enlargement in eu will bring huge impetus to the entire eurozone , especially the baltic region from which so many members of the eu eu eu eu eu group will come . for now , the interest in kaliningrad in the area of trade in kaliningrad has focused on limiting the visa rights that citizens of oblast now use to travel across the country and the baltic states to visit russia . but the expansion of trade and economic growth could provide real incentives for the participation of a neighbour and trading partner in kaliningrad , not just a source of illegal russian immigrants , but the fact that they should use the supposedly lax visa regime . but if that fails , the kaliningrad will be mutually beneficial . instead , it must create close cooperation with the leaders of russia and kaliningrad in the design of a viable future for enclave .
without nuclear fusion , energy options for future generations will be limited - which will cause serious problems for developing countries and developing countries . in artsimovich , tokamak 's inventor said " fusion will be ready when the company needs it . " i hope he 's right , but he 's not going to be the one who 's going to be right . but rather than relying on research in fusion , the world should increase its investment in technology . our future may depend on him , and he will not be able to live with him .
would n't the imf insist on a much tougher program with less funding for any country outside the eurozone ? the obvious explanation for the imf 's extraordinary gamble is that the director of the government , who decided to support the theft so heavily from the eurozone , and at the time he had barely suppressed his ambitions for the french presidency - that was before he was arrested in new york for rape . moreover , the euro is dominated by the leadership of the fund in the european union . it is a dissatisfaction with the conflicts of interest that debtors rule in international institutions , which make them huge sums . this mismanagement should be excluded from the management of the imf 's policy manager , and yet christina lagarde , the french finance minister , was appointed to succeed in the creation of a company 's dominique strauss-kahn after his resignation .
three problems that europe will face in the second half of the year are closely linked . instead , the strongest team will need to be able to control treacherous waters and carry out key financial reforms . just now , the signs are far from promising , and they do n't have to be afraid of anything . there are few new faces on the horizon , and there are only a few ideas . we have to hope that we will be surprised by the fact that we will be surprised .
a more nuanced approach would focus on removing the essential interconnected barriers faced by women in the election of elected offices and successful campaigns . these obstacles include an election system itself ( women are better suited to proportional representation than in the first post system , based on individual districts ) , a lack of access to finance , weaker professional networks , and external responsibilities that make it difficult to punish and unpredictable working conditions . in order to overcome these structural obstacles , a comprehensive strategy is needed to support women 's candidates . one of the most powerful tools is money , and i 'm sure you 'll be able to help me . in many countries , the cost of campaigns is becoming prohibitively high for most aspirants , regardless of gender .
this reflects both the lack of public investment and the lack of information : an investment in job training in a rapidly evolving industrial structure is like shooting at a moving target . given the imperfect information about future needs , labor markets are not balanced . the strong technological and global forces of the market are not limited to any single country . the same issues arise everywhere , and differences in outcomes reflect differences in flexibility in the market and the choice of social policy . these adverse trends have been delayed since 1980 , and they have not yet been used .
wikipedia 's boosters trumpeted it as they announced the arrival of " web 2.0 . " while the " web 1.0 " has facilitated the storage and transmission of vast amounts of different information in cyberspace , " web 2.0 " appears to be renting the entire process of interactive , removing the final border between the transmitter and the receiver of the information . but we 've been here before - in fact , for most of the history of humans . the sharp difference between manufacturers and consumers began 300 years ago when the book printers secured the protection of the royal industry against piracy in a rapidly expanding literary market . the heritage of their success , copyright law , is still preventing efforts to create a free market for ideas in cyberspace .
this is a little ironic : the withdrawal of uk from the jurisdiction of the ecj is now one of the main objectives of the action . so delegation after the delegation of ministers , mayors and various lobbyists from the financial center filled london 's best hotels and contributed to the most popular restaurant trade . luxembourg , frankfurt , dublin and others have been making shiny presentations about the competitive advantages of their cities over london : reducing property costs , reducing corporate tax rates ( which , according to the commission 's opinion , are plausible ) , michelin starred restaurants and porn stores - all of the essential services that form a vibrant financial center . some of these presentations have raised a smile on the face of a wry smile . french president franois hollande was elected for the claim that the world of finance was his enemy .
this reasoning led the irish leaders to dial their disruptive activities in several cinemas , not least by seizing the british tanker in the strait of the mountain ( they also noticed that the uk was a weak link between europe and europe ) . the growing aggressiveness of iran has already increased the number of hackles in the island , which is reportedly aimed at the iraqi forces ( which have already launched an attack on the irish forces in syria ) . the danger is that ian or his proxies in the middle east will misinterpret the situation and cross the red line . iran was understandably frustrated by the slow european procedure in launching an inbox mechanism designed to trade between europe and ireland , despite all sanctions . but those who claim they did n't get anything from europe are simply wrong .
so managers quickly accept " aggressive " or " creative " accounting methods that compare earnings projections , conceals risks , and show a smooth record of profit growth . finally , managers , not distant shareholders , are in control of well-paid jobs and lucrative counselling . the internal and external auditors are often selected by the joint undertaking for the selection of the accounts . of course , scandals of the companies and securities have revealed regulatory gaps - for example , insufficient enforcement of the requirements for the disclosure of information , or excessive reliance on mutual assessment of auditors and so-called " chinese walls " to separate the brokerage and investment banking activities . moreover , accounting standards have not been able to cope with the uncharted frontage of accounting transactions outside the balance sheet , structured financing methods and byzantine valuations .
countries in asia - indeed countries in developing countries - simply do not export their rich and economically important genetic resources . the convention on biodiversity ( hereinafter referred to as " cbd " ) , signed in 1992 , promised an international regime for the sharing of genetic resources and benefits . this would allow scientists and businesses to access the genetic treasure of the developing world in exchange for a share of profit from the products that have been developed . but the distribution of abs has proved to be elusive , and since there has been no international agreement , access has been reduced , and thus reduced by the share of benefits over the last five years . this implies a potential huge economic , environmental and social loss for the developed and developing world .
economic growth will be less distributed than in recent years , but it will continue to increase proportionately to those who are already better off . the second group , led by china , will stabilize lower growth rates than the last historical average , while at the same time mature . they will gradually focus on their growth models , which will make them more sustainable - an effort that will occasionally trigger global instability in financial markets , but it will not derail . they will work to deepen internal markets , improve regulatory frameworks , strengthen the private sector and expand the scope of economic management on the market . the third group , led by the euro , will fight , as the continued economic stagnation will continue to support social and political disenchantment in some countries , and will be involved in regional policy decisions .
once again , the costs of these measures have been borne by the european companies . and as europe 's pean companies are so integrated into the economy , europe is seeking to maintain an independent foreign policy towards ireland . if the euro is not made in an international currency that would compete with the dollar , the eurozone economy will remain highly exposed to the foreign market . a third area of weapons of soft energy has been used , in particular for 5g . unlike 3g and 4g broadband systems , 5g deployment has far-reaching implications for security and geopolitical reasons , as it promises not only to improve mobile phones , but also to accelerate the development of internet development and digital data of all economies .
so what 's the point of taking into account the differences in performance of partisan parties ? blinder and watson suggest that five factors - oil shocks , productivity growth , defense spending , foreign economic growth , and consumer confidence - together explain 56 % of the difference in growth . but it is not possible to know the extent to which these factors have affected the president 's policy . we know less about the factors that are responsible for the remaining 44 % difference in performance . in assessing clinton 's statement on this issue , the supervisory authorities make much of the finding by blinder and watson , which , contrary to the general assumptions , fiscal and monetary policies are no more pro-growth or expansion of democrats than republicans , and thus can not explain the difference in performance .
but , given the involvement of myanmar , it may be politically difficult , and the sub-group of the aseurs may be more realistic . another option is to press for a transpacific partnership , which will be the only option . this was proposed late in the bush administration to forge contacts with some of the members of the pacific - singapore , vietnam and brunei . this could be built to include other open southeast asian economies - malaysia and thailand - with the eventual aim of reaching a global agreement , which would be a great achievement if , at the end of 2011 , it would be an obama to play host . in this period of crisis and unemployment , the american public may challenge trade in a freer way .
the problem is that few outsiders seem to be listening , let alone prepare to face the limits of central-bank efficiency . as a result , they risk worsening the potential challenges that may occur in the future . this is especially true for policymaking entities that have much better tools to address the growth and employment problems of advanced economies . rather than using the option of effective response to the unconventional monetary policy of central banks , many of them have slipped into essentially dormant forms of inactivity and denial . in the united states , congress has not yet reached a fully fledged budget for the fifth year , and it is not possible to deal with the economic growth and employment crisis .
only 15 % of private sector employees - presumably based on education and infrastructure financed by government - receive a fixed-income pension plan that will reduce ryan 's pension by the pension center . to restore justice , the government should follow the leading private sector and connect the pension of politicians to their performance . as senior executives in public traded private companies , politicians who made bad decisions should face a reduction in pensions . the pension is a long-term commitment from the state - and , ultimately , taxpayers - to an individual politician . if politicians receive pensions that start at 50 years old , as ryan 's will , pension benefits can be realistically paid for 40-plus years .
the presidential term of abbas has expired , and the election is still postponed . the pa prime minister , salam fyyad , as well as his hamas counterparts in gay , the rules of the decree , are not active in parliament , and the opposition is silenced . without institutionalised democratic legitimacy , the father must rely on his security forces and on the occupier israel 's will to enforce his will . of course , national liberation movement has , in the past , only marginalised their radicals and fanatics to reach the promised land . this was true of zionism , italian risorgimento , and the latest catholics in ireland .
the commander of the military unit , admiral harry b. harris , r. , recently defended the prisoners in a harsh manner , claiming : " they are all terrorists , they are all enemies of the enemy . " but the cia has made mistakes , and i 'm sure it 's not the case . for example , the murat kurnaz , a man born in a german-born turkish , was held in guantánamo for four years before he was released by the last gust of wind . the case of khaled el-masri , a german citizen of lebanese origin , seems to be another of those mistakes . the cia took him to africa and questioned him for five months before he was released without charge .
the contract calls for a new foreign minister , although he is formally denied that title , everyone will call it - with strong administrative infrastructure in the european commission and the council . the rotating presidency will be replaced by the president of the council , who will be elected . the european parliament and the national parliaments will have a new balance between the countries in which the euro is taking place . instead , citizens will be legally binding fundamental rights and decisions will be taken in most cases by the general norm . this agreement must have been paid for by a high price .
we have to hope that the government will answer the question we have to ask . the most interesting part of the " future of finance " is how payments change . cash is falling in many countries , but the rate is significantly different from the place . in the last 10 years , cash consumption has fallen by more than 80 % , and in uk , 10 % have declined , while the number of german has barely changed . van steenis warns that " sweaty experience shows that , without coordinated plans , changes in risks of change are excluded from certain groups of society . "
the second reason for the euro 's intervention is that the potential insolvent country has serious implications for the fund . for example , the imf loan would mean that the imf loan would replace its " non-default " debt for " debt for private bondholders , since the fund 's money was primarily used to provide outstanding bonds . as a result , a group of lucky bondholders would be paid for by those who had become less subordinated to the debt , and would remain highly exposed to the likely restructuring . since the " haircut " can only be imposed on the remaining outstanding private debt , the greater the share of the imf , the deeper the haircut needed to restore sustainability . for the same reason , imf loans can be a burden of market value .
beijing - consider this : despite china 's growing foreign-exchange reserves - the result of persistent surpluses in the current account - market and short-term interest rates in the bank are rising . how did it happen and what should the politicians do about it , what do you think ? the problem is that the structure is at the core of the structure , and that 's the point . china 's monetary stock is relatively abundant , and it is not enough to pay for it . as the world 's biggest issuer , porcelain is 1.5 times larger than the issuer of the united states , with a ratio of around 200 % in the us 2 / gdp compared to 80 % .
while institutions such as weill cornell in the qatar and gulf of sciences and technology in kuwait have launched innovative research and training programs aimed at these health issues , it is necessary to do much more . another problem is that education and training programs in the region do not encourage systemic thinking . the public health policy is moving towards more intensive integration of engineering , medicine , social and management . by contrast , the integrated approach is not yet accepted , the gcc institutions are in danger of falling behind the global standard . it is important to use new technologies and approaches to public health , but they will not be effective if they are not adapted to the real needs of local people .
of course , more tells me that the party will be the primary party in november . given hollande 's approval rating , it is widely believed that the next president will be the republicans . and although juppé is still in the polls , the french could dismiss his happy french identity for sarkozy 's much darker . i still think juppé is likely to be the next president of france . as far as age and profile is concerned , it resembles a french version of the clinton of the hills , which is more experienced in the exercise than in conquering power .
under the banner of " simplification , " the " method " is gravitating to outsourcing most of the implementation of the implementation of the agencies , which , in one hope , will be provided , with greater flexibility to carry out their specific tasks . this requires a more smoothly functioning and much more effective link between the agencies and the european commission , which retains overall control over them , and thorough review of financial regulation throughout the operation and its bureaucratic bureaucracy . there are some tough policy decisions ahead of them : which part of the framework programme will continue , and which will be terminated ? how can innovation be achieved and fully used , which is not only technology , but also social ? and perhaps the most important thing is what is the optimal compromise to get member states and european institutions to work more efficiently for the common future of europe ?
despair and alienation took place in younger generations of abs representing more than 50 % of the population of the region . political repression and quiet arab public opinion should be feared by america and its ab allies , not to assure them , as it means that the public can not channel its interests , demand and frustration . the invasion of iraq with a large number of civilian casualties would deepen the sense of abuse and defeat of young men and force them to join the holy war cells of the qaeda-style . far from mining and fighting terror , the war will likely be in the hands of al kaeda , which will give her a new life contract . indeed , the militant islamists , who hope to recover from the devastating wounds they have suffered since the start of the war on terror , are already in a position to capitalize on the coming war with iraq .
but the current 2 standard would have caused these problems to be inevitable , and they would n't be able to get rid of it . a poorer ukraine will be a victim of russian aggression . and the kremlin 's grip on belarus would be even tighter if he had been close . moreover , the consequences would not be spared by the germans and other europeans . by buying russia 's gas more than necessary , and by extending the period , it would help to finance russia 's military build-up , which would pose a direct threat to peace in europe .
san francisco - at first glance , it seems puzzling : the price of prescription drugs in the united states continues to rise dangerously , despite the threat ( or promising ) of competition from cheaper generic substitutes . i do n't know what 's going on , but there 's no mystery . pharmaceutical companies pay players in health care to support their more expensive drugs than low-cost alternatives . and those who should act as watchdogs for patients like this are happy to be on the road . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish .
but while there are many reasons to blame foreign forces for the region 's parlour , the blame for others - or even one another - will not solve anything . after all , the arab world has many problems with its own growth , including inefficient and ineffective governance , unholy alliances and undeveloped capacities of the state . disaster awaits every region that is helpless to shape its future , in which most citizens feel discredited . although the world of arab is traditionally conservative , nearly 70 % of its citizens are less than 35 years old , and young people are most likely to be unemployment . this is not just a huge waste of resources , but also a serious long-term sociopolitical problem .
in order to ensure that the vaccinators continue to fight , it is necessary to address obstacles - whether physical security , social restrictions or low pay - that they face . let 's not forget that these women are taking risks to protect everyone from the disease . as a politician , i simply ca n't understand the possibility that if we have completely eradicated our eyes , we can afford polio to return . since unicef has begun to emphasize the importance of hiring women for a political program in 2014 , the number of vaccinated women has increased significantly . the vaccine was nearly 62 % , and the vaccine was administered to nigeria .
a large minority of developed world citizens , bubbles created by these platforms , are emerging from the world 's most recent ideas - digital false realities , in which the current faith is becoming increasingly strict and extreme . in the case of us , about one-third of the adult population is becoming immune to new ideas , including demonstrable facts . such people are easy to manipulate , the term " brain hacking " that the former google design ethicist tristan harris calls " brain hacking . " western democracies are not prepared to face the threat that has been put in place . we do not have an effective regulatory framework for the internet platform and we lack political will to create it .
when u.s. troops were captured in iraq , president bush said they were expected to be treated humanely . " if not , " the president warned , " the people who have been disrespectful to the prisoners will be considered war criminals . " the president 's remarks have brought about the importance of strict adherence to the conventions of geneva and the question of how the war crimes can be conducted in iraq after the war , and who will be able to carry out them . the plan for the war crimes is to cover the offences committed before the start of the conflict . american officials recently released a list of iraqi men who would face trial for the past .
second , today 's algorithms are beginning to be very good in terms of pattern recognition , provided that they are equipped with large data sets - finding objects in the video of the youtube , or detecting fraud on credit cards - but they are much less effective in unusual circumstances that do not fit the usual pattern , or simply when the data is scarce or a little loud . to solve such cases , you need an experienced person with his experience , intuition and social awareness . third , the latest systems can not explain what they have done , or why they recommend a specific procedure . in these " black boxes , " you ca n't read the code to analyze what is happening , or find out if there 's any hidden bias . when interest-for example , in many medical applications , it is important to have a trained person in decision-making .
the country has also progressed in fiscal federalism : to bring all vat into the federal budget and to the regions " income tax , it is a sensible distribution of budgetary resources between the various levels of the authority . the second important area of progress has been reform of russia 's federation : establishing federal districts and the federation 's reform . these changes are controversial , but some of the members of the federation , whose laws are not respected , can not normally function ; the federation , in which the observance of laws depends on the whim of local administrators , can not simply exist . therefore , president putin 's efforts to strengthen the integrated energy system are logical and correct . russia is now a real federation , even if it is imperfect .
for israel , it 's more than a little more about the matter . some of the prime ministers of the network , including avigdor liberman , the hawkish defense minister and yuval steinitz , quickly expressed concern about the arms trade . many of the fear of trump is merely trying to appease the rhetoric and views of the saudi arabia as a mainstay of our interests in the area . it is possible that trump hopes that saudi arabia 's support will help to make negotiations between israelis and palestinians . but given trump 's failure to take a real stance on any of the main areas of disagreement - including borders , refugees , and jerjerseys - the idea of playing a well-thought game on the island 's palestine conflict seems to have brought him to a farfetched point .
and it seems that the weaknesses in the housing market in the long-term are not spread elsewhere . in fact , housing prices in the northwest show signs of an acceleration in construction . if this trend continues , it will have far-reaching implications for the uk economy . strengthening housing markets in the north could do wonders how to reverse the disturbing regional inequalities that have occurred in recent decades . we can be absolutely sure that the government should continue to pursue policies to engage in the north powerhouse , and perhaps with the engine of the mediterranean .
the new delhi - for some time , multinationals have played the rules of the global economy to minimise their tax liability - or even completely eliminate it . and for a while , the independent commission for reform of the tax on international companies ( icrict ) has argued for the taxation of mncs . fortunately , recent signs have been encouraging that the idea of a single tax is being traction . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries .
this includes : to stop the transfer of funds from mothers to children , funds to combat infections such as tuberculosis , which are accompanied by aids , and to finance even anti-retroviral therapy . with specially designed low-cost drugs and drugs that are available to the poorest countries , it is possible to extend arva therapy to very poor countries at an acceptable price . the third step must be a expanded research programme and development into new and more effective approaches to control disease . the most promising answer is to protect against disease . recent discoveries in basic science provide hope that the vaccine will be developed within a decade , if public and private sectors mobilize millions of funds for research and development .
the united states estimates that , for up to seven to ten women , physical or sexual violence is underway around the world - or both - for their entire lives . it 's hard to find out about violence against women , but it 's hard to identify . even those who know about it can choose to ignore it , and they believe that their work is not too extensive , and they do n't care about it , or because they 're too busy to be involved . it is clear that global change is needed in terms of attitudes and standards related to men . to that end , national governments are responsible for developing policies and procedures sensitive to gender equality , which effectively discourage discrimination based on gender equality , while preventing violence , including punishing perpetrators .
this month , the new mayor took office without a commission for electoral vote ( cse ) , which was published by 100 % of the vote , and there was a breach of the electoral law of nicaraguan . although electoral fraud is most commonly documented , the same modus operandi has occurred across the country and has affected more than 40 municipalities . despite complaints from the episcopal conference of the catholic church , trade chambers and political parties , the cse refused to comment on the list of ballots or the control of impartial observers . and when the citizens protested peacefully , the government resorted to violence to stop them . so the federal government declared itself a winner in 109 of 153 communities .
even if putin found a way to maintain power without amending the constitution - it is clear that russia 's dwindling group of democrats has been speculated endlessly - the undemocratic nature of his strategy is highly evident . moving from one of the highest levels of the kremlin to the other in the white house ( russian parliament 's seat ) is merely a technical issue . putin will be czar , no matter what office he is , officially . this job will be done by throwing up a master of facades , like any good kgb . it has been said that democracy in the presidential area is only reinforced by russia 's political culture , which is a " strong hand " favor the rulers , while the parliamentary system would allow for a " horizontal " distribution of power .
morsi 's timing was remarkable : the day after he won international recognition for his successful attempt to negotiate a ceasefire in gaza , he staged a frontal attack on egypt 's nascent democracy . the question is whether brothers will prevail on the streets and on the basis of the new egypt constitution ( which they have largely written ) . if so , will the west withdraw support for egyptian democracy for " stability " ? it would be a bad mistake if i had n't made it a mistake . the question of what to do with iran 's nuclear program will also be answered by revenge in january , after we are president barack obama 's second introduction and the general election of israel , and we will demand an answer within a few months .
the result was clear : democracy itself is not enough , and it is not enough . liberalism - protection of minorities and individual civil rights - should be strengthened . but the word " liberalism " does not mean the same thing to all people . in many circles , it was used to describe unfettered capitalism and to choose freely in their own lives . and it was the alternative meanings that enabled politicians such as orbán and turquoise leader to repeat the case for a different form of majoritarian democracy .
despite the talk of a " green economy " and calls for an investment programme throughout the eurozone , macron 's agenda is generally unliberal . macron hopes that his program , if implemented at a level of eu , will not only bring about the french economy , but all the european boats . in fact , it is likely that these reforms will sink all boats and give the population a chance . in that case , what kind of populist will it take to seize the opportunity ? the economist dani rodrik points out that populism is being sought .
the first shock was reinforced by globalization , which brought many new low-wage competition . globalization is a gradual process , but china has gained momentum when it decided to play . china is ten times as big as japan , and japan is not easy to deal with . for example , german accurate instruments and optical equipment have lost their competitive edge when japan entered the game . the second shock was the integration of eu , including expansion of northern and southern areas .
the deteriorating fiscal position of america leads to a strong dollar , just as we have deteriorated after reagan 's irresponsible tax cut , which has been reduced for two decades . although countries can pride themselves in strong currency , exports are not good for the dollar , and imports are good . in a dynamic economy , jobs are lost in one sector . the government 's role is to facilitate the movement of labor between men and men . it is primarily a responsibility for the government to maintain a full employment relationship .
to be sure , to reach consensus , compromise , and to merge sovereignty , there is only one way to solve many of the major issues - climate change , nuclear proliferation - the devil in our world . but , in the war , peace and balance of power , europe seems to be trapped between a lack of coherence between foreign policy and uncertainty about the definition and security of national interests . by contrast , the world 's growing powers - brazil , china , india , and russia - do not only insist on the primacy of national interests , but also on the fact that climate negotiations in copenember have not been demonstrated , but also on the freedom of the state . geopolitics is not an anathema ; it is the basis for all external actions . the defense of national interests is still indicative of their public ; the exercise of power is still at the core of diplomatic calculations .
he was a pro-milosevic candidate , a tomislav nikolic candidate , lost , but received 46 % of the vote . despite his promises to campaign , president boris has failed to cooperate with the icicles so far , helping to turn over the mladic ( the caricature is probably not in the serbia ) , which would certainly testify against milosevic . one understands his concerns : first post-milosevic prime minister zoran djindjic , co-operating with the tribunal and paying for his life . such a drag of feet marks the basic weakness of the icty : in contrast to the nuremberg tribunal , the international community has called it at the time of the war . without full control of the evidence or the defendant , the icty was not at the beginning of the legitimacy and authority of the " victors " justice .
for example , global financial collapse and subsequent recession have revealed the consequences of fundamentalism in the free market , which is why it undermines the popular and ideological support of neoliberal views that markets are best suited to the social outcomes . china - the embodiment of growth movement - has also signaled a political shift towards better outcomes in terms of social and environmental protection , and more moderate gains in the gdp . this is a largely case of virtue , which is why growth driven by exports has slowed , and the risk of social unrest has increased over the issue of air pollution , food toxicity , and corruption . but the new approach is based on the recognition that china 's continued development depends on a balanced balance between the environment and the economy . this shift is linked to a third , wider development : the world is increasingly aware of the environment , especially in terms of climate change .
johannesburg - my country freed abortion more than two decades ago , but on january 23 , 2017 , president donald trump basically took my right to write the word . as a doctor in southern africa , i have provided an abortion service for over a decade . i often edit educational materials for ngo in the prevention of hiv . for young women in the south of africa , these texts provide life-saving information about issues related to sexual and reproductive health - including the control of birth , sexual violence and the progressive abortion law of our country . but two days after the u.s. presidential election in november 2016 - and more than two months before the introduction of the trump - the ngo was working to stop the distribution of the health care guidelines for reproductive-health , as it contained information about the constitutionally guaranteed right of south africa to abortion .
the election campaign will begin to heat up when we face a series of problematic issues . how should she approach china 's creation not just facts on the ground , but also on the ground in south china ? will russia 's annexation of criticism be held for the rest of the time ? how can america respond to russian aggression without leaving the long-term project to bring it closer to the west ? is there any other option than sending ground troops back to the middle east ?
the world can not and will not wilt in the face of such extremism , wherever it is , whether in the hel , nigeria , iraq or syria . today , the international coalition of isis has grown to more than 60 active members . since septum , we have taken 700 square kilometers of the territory from the start of the operation . we have lost a group of uses - and resulting revenue - 200 oil and gas . we disrupted the command structure , disrupted propaganda , took half of the lead , squeezed the funding , damaged the supply network and dispersed the staff .
when the wall fell in 1989 , the hammers and bulldozers , not artillery , fell . unfortunately , the bush did n't learn this lesson , and it was n't the best thing to do . academic and scientific exchanges during the cold war have played a major role in strengthening american soft power . while some american skeptics feared that soviet scientists and kgb agents would steal american technology , they did n't notice that visitors had sucked political ideas into the air , along with scientific secrets . many of these scientists have become the leading supporter of human rights and liberalization in the area of use .
forty years ago , japan represented the " asian west " in the first place . today , the emergence of modern chinese style and indian-style modernity is mentally destabilizing the japanese . if china is the main economic partner of america in asia and if india is the main diplomatic partner of america , what will it be for japan ? its aging population is looking at resignation as a new and younger asia , which is as important to us as europe was in a cold war . george w bush was looking at india as a " anti-china " approach , and thus balanced the " world 's biggest democracy " against " the oldest civilization in the world . "
the new york - the current global recession is not just a financial panic , but also a fundamental uncertainty about the world economy 's future . consumers are pulling out of the house and buying cars not only because they have suffered a significant impact on their wealth , with declining stock prices and housing values , but also because they do n't know where to turn . should they risk buying a new car if the price of gasoline is going to rise again ? will they be able to put food on the table after this terrible increase in food prices ? the decision to invest in business is even a starker , and that 's why i 'm not going to be a business .
there was no sign of the authority to polish the surface , and there was no sign of it . the total destruction of the state of polish and its institutions has made the poll an ideal place for the termination of the german camps , where six million people have been murdered - three million jews and three million ethnic poles . the nazis , in the german controlled euro , had to deal with them , sometimes with the local government , albeit for tactical reasons . that 's why poland is right to insist that camps are not called " polished camps " ( as we , president barack obama , as we once mistakenly refer to them ) . they were the german camps in occupied poland , and they were the only ones who had ever been able to get there .
in china , the main suppliers of telecommunications companies are located in china , where huawei is now heading for sweden 's ericsson . in 2008 , huawei registered more patents than any other company in the world and completed the second version of japan 's panasonic in 2009 . in the telecommunications sector , half a dozen emerging-market multinationals are now in the top 10 . brazil 's embrarer revolutionized aircraft production with a business model that others imitated . the indian tata is selling cars at 75 % lower than the european competitors .
even the government , with a debt of about four years , would not benefit from inflation surprise if it was n't big . the main part of his obligations is social security and health care , which can not be extended . even for distressed households who have borrowed for a long time , higher inflation is uncertain . what would help if their nominal income on the transfer of assets increased relative to their ( fixed ) debt . but , with high unemployment rates that would keep nominal wage growth relatively low , it would be possible to reduce the typical difficulties of households - higher food prices and fuel prices , which would reduce the yield for one use .
although china 's leadership is expected , it is hoped that the lack of drama in 2009 will not be enough , president xi jinping will surely be able to make an impression on his own . if he had n't missed the opportunity to advance the goal of the asian pacion-pacific trade agreement , he would not have had the opportunity to guarantee that china 's interest would serve the agenda for the g-20 . of course , with the turkey expression on the helmet of the g-20 , which barely started , xi probably has n't decided on specific priorities . but some of the possible areas of concern have already been clear , and they are already clear . elements of the current g-20 programme are well aligned with the domestic economic interests of china , in particular with regard to infrastructure .
the new york - after the french revolution in 1789 , the representatives of the national assembly , who supported the revolutionary benefits , were seated on the left , and those who stood up to them and stood up to the old order of monarchy and church churches . that 's why the political terms " left " and " right " are now in the right . many commentators of the french presidential election have pointed out that these categories are no longer fit for contemporary politics in france - or , indeed , anywhere else . emmanuel macron is based on not being on the right side or left . the pen of the marine corps , which is associated with the opposite side , does not agree : her macron , the minister of the socialist government , is a leftist .
as a result , it will take a long time to assess the success of any law that congress has finally adopted . however , the criteria for the judgment are clear : the new law must limit the procedures that have jeopardized the entire global economy and the focus of the financial system on its proper tasks - managing risks , capital allocation , credit ( especially small and medium-sized enterprises ) and the implementation of an effective payment system . we should toast the likely successes : there will be a form of financial product safety commission ; more derivative trading will be limited to exchange and clearing houses from the dark market of " bespoke " ; some of the worst mortgage practices will be limited . moreover , it seems likely that the outrageous fees charged for each transaction of debit - a tax that is not intended for public purposes , but for banks " coffers - will be limited . but the likely failure is equally important : the problem of banks that are too big to fail is now worse than before the crisis .
of course , most french and german citizens are identified as europe , not as citizens of uk , who are british - or even as british , irish , scottish , or welsh . therefore , german and french criticism of eu is generally aimed at the performance of the bloc , while the british are often attacking the european project itself . but when it comes to security and defense , these affinity is reversed : france and britain are highly valued , and many of them have long since been away from the battle activities of any kind . of course , there are many differences between britain and france regarding how they act with the united states and the nato . the uk is naturally closer to nato than the ance of the two brothers .
although the new tax law is generally regarded as fiscal stimulus , it is more precise that it does not allow for a large immediate fiscal downturn . the long-term implications of the agreement are strongly opposed to the proposal for a budget for the obama budget for 2010 and against the republican party 's counter-proposal . obama wanted to continue the tax rate for all taxpayers in 2010 , except for those who had annual incomes over 250,000 . the republicans have proposed that the 2010 tax rate be continued for all taxpayers in 2010 . by agreeing to limit the current tax rate for two years , the tax package will reduce the projected national debt by the end of the decade ( compared to the obama budget ) by about $ 2 billion , or nearly 10 % of the gross domestic debt in 2020 .
spending on cars is going to stop until government stimulus programs in many countries have revived it . but the public subsidies for the scrapping of old and inefficient cars have led many people to replan their purchases . the car market was saved in 2009 at sales costs in 2010 and in subsequent years . the crisis also revealed the extent to which the large excess capacity of the retail market was large , and estimates that at least one-fifth of american shopping malls would be forced to close . the response to the crisis will be a rapid move to online purchases , in which the physical location is no longer a major part of the business decision .
confucianism has become an official ideology of chinese state two centuries before christ 's birth . confucianism was essentially a philosophical justification for the government by virtue of a generous bureaucracy . virtue ensured harmony between nature and man and obedience in a stratified society . as one of the confucian classic said : possessing virtue will give the people the ruler . if he owns the people , he 'll give him the territory of the country .
the conversion of damping power is not only possible , but also is essential for regional peace . the most realistic scenario is now a three-way war that is being pushed against syria , hamas and hezbollah . but the syrian-israeli peace will lead the wedge between syria and ian , thereby reducing the supply of hezbollah 's weapons , while allowing the most important task of stabilization of lebanon to succeed . the only way to get syria out of the deadly embrace of ireland is to bring him to a regional peace plan . unfortunately , given their isolation and the baathist regime 's character , the syrians are unlikely to meet the conditions of peace talks : they have abandoned their existing unjust alliances and their marriage with terror .
for most of the last two decades , the long-term economic boom of the city of bangkok has largely been a major part of the city 's city , a boon of urban middle classes , but a deep majority of the country has resented . while the population of the countryside had enough to eat , their economic opportunities and mobility were limited to the state 's most recent education system and the docile media , which provided soap operas and official reports . no one had become anyone , all roads led to bangkok and prestigious universities . the farm of thailand has become increasingly alienated by the city 's elite . thaksin recognized this urban-rural divide and cleverly abused it , and thus made an elite consensus that had long prevailed .
some of the roughly 150 pro-insurgency alawites , who attended the conference , were arriving in syria , others were sent to the atriates , including activists and religious leaders who had to escape from syria to support the revolution . the delegates , who joined several sunni opposition members , condemned assad and declared their unwavering support for the united democratic country , which would provide the syrians with the citizenship of all syrians , regardless of the sect or ethnic background . " the abandonment of the sectarian card regime is crucial to its leader , " the conference committee noted . if alawites and sunnis live abroad , they can stand up to the assad regime , so their counterparts in syria can be involved . by setting up an example of coexistence , they can mitigate the concerns of the alawites in syria , which , by deserting assad , would help to build an anti-alawite solar system .
china announced its plans for aiib shortly after the signature of the provisions of the agreement in 2014 . in the case of a ndb , each brickman owns the same share and each has contributed $ 10 billion to the original subscribed capital . although a fair share of china was not the preferred route , it did not affect the issue . china , by contrast , is the largest shareholder in aiib by a broad margin , while holding 26.6 % stake in india compared to 7.7 % of china and 6 % of russia 's capital . meanwhile , brazil and south africa have not yet provided capital contributions , although they have been designated as " founding members . "
in both cases , we should say no : although the aid is transparent , the symbolism of rich countries , which is taking money from poor neighbors with millions of suffering , is hardly attractive . and it is especially strange that , even if we are a policy towards mexico , the chances of becoming president of the anti-american type of office are greatly increased , officials are providing positive publicity to the government , which is a caricature of disastrous governance . trump 's predecessor , barack obama , stood up to us principled in dealing with venezuela , and imposed sanctions on the abject behavior , a policy that drew broad support for bipartisan . trump 's leadership must remain in place , especially since lower oil prices have weakened the hands of the venezuelan government . instead of hitting latin america , we have to prove that it 's a stable and principled friend who 's not going to be swayed by corrupt bribes of any kind .
a similar solution should be found in the european constitution for the european union 's constitution . europe can not preach cultural diversity , and to practice constitutional imperialism , as a matter of fact , it is a matter of law . indeed , political imperative is as big as a constitutional imperative , and it is a matter of fact . in the end , europe is committed to democracy around the world , and it is a great deal of interest . but in europe , democracy must be distributed in a way that persuades not by force of arms .
the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur . after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . as a doctor with special training in forensic evaluation , we went to tijuana for a meeting with julia at the request of his lawyer .
trump appreciates what india has done , but it is urging him to do more , using its huge profits from exports to help restore the afghaghadic economy . he also suggested that we work with india to create an indo-pacific security zone . in any event , the two governments have already discussed the potential for cooperation in the area of security in us-india , although only in trump 's speech . the implications of trump 's speech are beyond the american policy of afghaunts . the address also sharpened the contours - which were already limmed during his visit to the saudi arabia and his juggling visit to the mainland - perhaps the so-called " trump doctrine . "
it organized a post-war international order : a united nation , a forest institution of cotton , a plan to rebuild the japanese and others . the rest of the world has closed a large number of technological , educational and infrastructure gaps . as economists say , global growth is " convergent , " meaning poorer countries are beginning to catch up . the share of the world economy represented by us has declined by half ( currently about 16 % ) . china has a larger economy than us , but it is still only about a quarter of the size of a single capita .
the focus on corporate social responsibility could contribute to the sharing of industrialization benefits , while the requirements for energy efficiency and resources could help to maintain sustainability . and , as the gs recognize , it is also crucial to promote infrastructure and innovation incentives . of course , achieving this goal , not to mention other equipment , will be costly , and the cost of which will be estimated at $ 3.3-4.5 billion per year . given the pressure on the budget of many donor countries , it is not possible to rely on the decline of official development assistance and to complete this need . as the international committee 's report on sustainable development funding points out , funding for future international development frameworks must be wider than ever .
for example , if the high oil price was due to taxes , which were then distributed to users of oil , it would be unambiguously good . of course , most taxes require " excessive costs , " the cost is significantly higher than the value of revenue achieved , as potential taxpayers try to avoid and avoid it . however , the oil tax does not constitute a disproportionate burden for the oil industry . on the contrary , it means that the excess amount of the benefits is exceeded . the transfer to more energy-efficient means of transport will relieve congestion in the area of transport .
the so-called " functional " foods - or " technological foods " - are the foods that manufacturers add omega-3 oils , artificial sweeteners , indigestible starches , reduced cholesterol , soy or milk ( whey ) , phytochemicals and other ingredients that allow them to use " qualified " health requirements , which are allowed by food and drugs . sales of weaker and functional foods have been good in recent years , and in 2004 we have reached 85 billion . if you normally buy these foods , you will be among the loha ( lifestyle of health and sustainability ) of consumers - the health of the food industry 's most valuable demographic base . you buy low-carbohydrates , energy bars , vitamins , and mineral-fortified foods , soy foods , and virtually everything you want . like many people , i thought small innovative businesses were dominated by functional foods .
it is assumed that unity is the basis for prosperity , and that it is a source of prosperity . the common market was initially defended in terms of profits that would be the result of an increase in trade . the case of integration into the capital market and then in the case of a single currency was similar . all of this reminds us of some strong arguments made in the nineteenth century about the integration and unification of the nation . in particular , the two countries whose problems led to the need for europe 's integration - germany and italy - were culturally and politically diverse .
in a simulation , government contracts with external providers to achieve measurable social objectives ( such as reducing recidivism among juvenile offenders ) , private investors financing the initial costs of the programme , and the government promises to return them if they achieve the objectives of the programme . the obama administration recently proposed a $ 300 million fund to catalyze federal procurement for performance . several existing federal programs , such as reinvestment in communities and a small business investment programme , support the growth of investment funds . according to the latest study , investments in these funds would not exist without support and partnership with the federal government through grants , loans and guarantees . metrics are a key feature of the payment contracts for performance and must be a key feature of all government programs .
their presence suggests that , behind the martial rhetoric and symbolism of the parade , there is a broader and more complex history of china 's war experience . china is eager to stress its role as one of the main allies in the fight against fascism and imperialism in wwii , and is increasingly aware of western ignorance about its war role as unacceptable . but ignorance in the west of china 's war victims - 14 million dead - and the main contribution of the chinese military to hold more than half a million japanese troops - reflects the partisan history of the war that china itself taught . according to mao 's rule , the only acceptable story was that the ccp led the resistance against japan . foreign assistance - including the main role of china in war - has not been in this story .
but are these new wealth effects really all they have to do ? yes , the stock market is now in a high position - but only in current dollars . in fact , the 500 s and p 500 are still 20 % below the peak of the 2000 januaries . similarly , while the index of domestic prices is 10.2 % higher than the 2013 final march , 28 % lower than the 2006 peak . wealth creation matters , but not until it is replaced by wealth destruction that preceded it .
the left is divided into virtually all aspects - europe , secularism , education , trade , and more - making it difficult to identify exactly what is currently " leftist " policy . the socialists have not really recognized what they are , but what they are not , they have not touched the line , " neither macron nor mélenchon " ( reference to the distant left of the jean-luc mélenchon ) . but this distinction may not be as powerful as the socialists can believe . after all , their voters , who had a macron in the middle of the vote , were elected . and they knew what they were voting for : all the policies he had taken so far were included in his campaign .
in the same way , the saudi arabia is even less risky , where king abdullah promised more than $ 130 billion in spending on stimulus . several saudi demonstrations are populated almost entirely by minority shia , who do n't seem to be very sympathetic to most of the sun 's work , and foreign construction workers are asking for higher wages and better working conditions . syria 's president bashar al-assad has more domestic support than recent reports of unrest in the south of the country . it does n't look like iris 's government is facing real danger , and it 's not going to happen . the brutal crackdown on protests after the election in 2009 has shown that the regime has decided to maintain order in any way necessary .
mexico city - four central american countries - guatemala , el salvador , honduras and nicaragua - are still struggling , despite the fact that the war was still in place . they are resilient , but incomplete democracies , and they are facing poverty , violence , and corruption . but now there is a reason to hope that the prospects of these countries will improve . nicaragua is not the same as the other three of central america . as well as these , it has suffered a brutal and lengthy civil war , but unlike them , the governments have built institutions capable of supporting a reasonable level of territorial control and national security .
ten governments in the region have already had a debt ratio of more than 75 % . as growth slowed , public spending fell , and economic uncertainty was not compromised . even if fiscal adjustment has not begun , the old model of rent distribution has become unaffordable , and the population has turned against regimes that seem impossible or unwilling to make a convincing effort to rebuild the market . moreover , the new popular movement in algeria , sudan , lebanon and iraq have taken an important lesson from the 2011 insurgency . the protesters are no longer content with the mere withdrawal of autocrats , but also the main elements of the deep state and security forces .
but we , president donald trump , are now putting this carefully calibrated system in disarray . far from showing the ability to convince , as the title of the book might mean art , trump is trying to use his own raw power to make his " america first " agenda on the other side of the world . there are plenty of examples of trump 's fondness for power in the market . it is also reflected in the pressure on the euro countries to spend more time on defense , not only to carry out their obligations - valid demand - but also to continue to channel these expenditure to nuclear systems . it is also evident that , in his bellicose threats , the alleged enemies of america are threatened .
a comprehensive assessment of the macro risk assessment requires a systematic examination of the state 's stocks and flows of national accounts in order to capture all risks , including the risk of financial systems and the real economy , as well as the wider issue of risks . as we have seen in recent crises , the risk of taking and debt is socialised . even if public debt and public debt are low before the crisis , they can increase sharply after the explosion . governments that look like a fiscally healthy sound suddenly appear to be insolvent . using 200 quantitative variables and factors , 174 countries have been quarterly , and many countries have identified the missing risk and opportunities for investors .
abedi 's barbaric act , by contrast , killed at least 22 people . in recent years , i have been very involved in the policy aspects of the economic recovery of this great city . i chaired an economic advisory group to the larger manchester council and then served as a chairwoman of the city 's growth commission , which advocated for the " north powerhouse , " a program that connected the cities of the british north to a coherent economic unit . then i briefly joined david cameron 's government to help carry out the first stages of the northern power station . i 've never seen a concert in manchester , but it seems like it 's a great place for the city .
an empty delta - about 60 miles north of cairo 's tahrir square - an epicentre of the egyptian insurgency in 2011 - in 2011 , students from secondary schools call " prison . " a twisted concrete box filled with decayed classrooms , a school marked with age and neglect . one teacher in a sleepy village in delta quips that he 's going to double the mortuary . " we 've never seen a revolution , " he said a few months ago , and he did n't say his name because he was afraid of losing his job . " we hope we were dead ... they killed him . "
this circularity seems to be ignored by the 10-year fiscal plan approved by the board for the period 2017-2026 , which inevitably form the basis for the debate on debt restructuring . the plan itself acknowledges that its adoption means another " lost decade " of economic activity , and will weaken the sustainability of the island 's debt , thereby maintaining a crisis that would be the end of which all sides would like to end . unfortunately , the overall forecast fall in real depth is highly optimistic , as it relies on a series of implausible and / or controversial assumptions . five shortcomings in the tax plan of the management board are excluded from the scope of the proposal . first , the projected tax multipliers - the amount of which the gnp will fall on each dollar of fiscal contraction - which is used for the forecast forecast for the gnp - assumes that the reduction of the dollar in the primary fiscal deficit will be associated with a reduction of 1.34 .
such control is detrimental to the development of open societies in the area of development . removing this constraint could threaten triple rating by the bank , but it will be more effective . i propose that the world 's open society form an alliance with dual objectives : promoting the development of open societies in individual countries and developing a global open society . the first is development assistance , the second strengthening of international institutions such as international central banks and world development agencies . such an alliance requires cooperation not only of government , but also civil society .
accra - planned parenthood , a major source of sexual and reproductive health services in the united states , has just been forced to withdraw from the federal program of the so-called " x family planning , " which supports low-income women . the decision - a response to the new rule by president donald trump , who forbids the title x clinics for abortions - will cost the planned parenthood of $ 60 million a year . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur .
but after the conflict , employment policies almost always neglect the so-called " horizontal inequalities . " employment policy , for example , did not diminish the strong imbalance and discrimination in regions that persisted in the bosnia and in the 1990 " s . given these shortcomings , it is not surprising that the net effects of employment policies are often very small compared to the size of the problem . in the case of kosovo and bosnia and hernia , it was considered that the creation of jobs is a central element of the post-conflict peacekeeping effort . but unemployment was 45 % six years after the war .
we will strengthen the assistance of developing countries and bring the world to a more favourable environment . the prosperity is the basis for peace , and the rest of the world is the basis for peace . japan will make even greater efforts to combat poverty , which will also serve as a source of violence , and to provide health services , education and self-reliance on all people in the world . we will be buried in the heart of the past when japan ended up as a challenger to an international order . in this context , japan firmly supports basic values such as freedom , democracy and human rights as a firm firm firm , and in cooperation with countries that share these values , is a flag of " active benefits for peace , " and contributes to peace and prosperity in the world more than ever before .
in the saudi arabia , the shia is in the lead of those who welcome democratic change and participation . although the population is only 20 % of the saudi population , it represents a majority of 75 % of the population of the region 's oil-rich population . the saudi arabia shia was discriminated against : in the military , in the highest government 's position , diplomatic corps and , above all , oil industry , where they were excluded from the 1980 " s. this systematic cavities of shia in saudi arabia are legitimised by the religious establishment of the wahhabi , and many fatalities have been condemned as heretics . in the rain of the bahrain , the shia , who represents 75 % of the population , was keen to implement reforms initiated by king al-khalifah .
the fund has created economies of scale for life-saving products such as nets against malarial bed and antiretroviral drugs . the fund then built a massive supply chain for the supply of goods . the deaths of aid fell by 50 % , and malaria died about 50 % after millennia . the fund has 14 billion dollars to continue its work . the replenishment is vital news , especially because of the sheer number of lives that help save .
the higher education seems to be , the lower the number of participants in the vote : one of those who never vote , the higher education is twice higher than those of people who do n't have higher education . the country 's most powerful people have long alienated their political hands . this is a kind of political crisis , and i 'm not going to let you know . depression can be cured , but only by giving a patient a positive vision . the right centrist parties - the right forces and yabloko - have such a vision and people know it .
but there will be no broad international support if military operations are considered a form of western neo-imperialism . the last point is that iraq 's problems have been at the core of the problem . the strengthening of the british and other forces in the west would not change , especially at this late stage , the basic perception of this intervention , even in the arab world , and beyond . only explicit and upward approval of the reformed un security board may provide legitimacy and international support for military action , except for clear self-defense . this is true for actions taken by individual states , temporary alliances or permanent alliances , such as the nato .
second , we measured the effects of natural selection by noting that women who were less and less born when they were younger and had more children . but genes are only one of many factors that affect the height and age of the first birth . personal decisions , nutrition , income , education and religious affiliation are included in the mix . when we estimated how much difference could be attributed to biology , the answer was less than 5 % . 95 % of the variation was explained by the effects of culture and individual decisions .
thus , the european union 's leaders would expect to strengthen the same number of unifying symbols as possible , at the time of the ongoing european debt crisis . instead , they allowed one of the post-world wars to be put in danger - europe 's court of human rights . unlike the european union based on british brussels-based , long delayed by democratic deficit , the echr based on strasbourg-based forces is too much love . in 2011 , more than 60,000 people were seeking help - much more than expected . ( by contrast , the supreme court of the united states receives roughly 10,000 petitions per year . )
corrupt governments may seem to serve vital purposes in a world of competitive demands . one of the soldiers is deploying the fight against terrorism , the other is providing critical energy supplies or access to raw materials . leaders must inevitably fight with difficult tradeoffs , and they must not be able to defend themselves . in order to determine the best approach in each case , governments must analyse the problem more effectively , meaning that intelligence collection and data are improved . as a security expert , sarah chayes claims against corruption , the number of essays that the british government will publish it to accompany the summit , corruption is now in place .
some of them willingly seek inflation or administrative measures aimed at financing state and maintaining a low bond rate ( such as economic operators call financial repression ) , or , where appropriate , to restructure debt . all three unusual medicines have been used in the past in the context of a debt crisis . they can be considered alternative tax forms , but they are implicit , not specifically . in the end , these methods are different ways of forcing current and future generations to bear the burden of accumulated debt . is it better to adjust to the full extent of the situation and to complete it ?
but you have to be careful about the visions , and you have to be careful . leaders sometimes think that vision can solve most of the problems , but bad vision can cause damage . george h.w. bush was faulted ( and faulted ) because he did n't have what he called " vision . " when he pressed his staff to speak more boldly and expansively , he replied : " it 's not just me . " after the shock of the terrorist attacks in september 2001 , his son george wbush developed a much more ambitious vision .
and the private sector has come to the point where renewable energy is considered a potentially profitable business . the cost of wind energy has fallen by two-thirds since 2009 , and solar energy costs have fallen by 85 % . in addition , the number of jobs in wind and solar industries increased by 32 % in 2016 , and by 25 % in 2016 . trump 's policy priorities inevitably meet with states such as california , which has taken the initiative to promote technological innovation in a climate-minded way . fortunately , other global forces do not join the trump in support of climate commitments .
moreover , if the eurozone 's conditions deteriorate , asia could be significantly affected . the effect of the spillover of trade and financial transfers is already starting to take their toll : in the second quarter of 2012 , china 's growth rate is about 7.6 % , which is a significant slowdown , and the growth rate of india is expected to fall by about 6 % this year . china 's potentially strong base of domestic demand and a large number of policy manoeuvres can help to avoid a hard landing . it has already aggressively released monetary policy and can use further fiscal stimulus . but the mismanagement of policies and structural weaknesses in financial and local governments could undermine efforts to protect growth .
according to historical data obtained by economic historian angus maddison , other east asia countries have slowed economic growth after their per capita gdp reached about $ 11,000 in terms of purchasing power in terms of constant price in 1990 , or $ 17,000 in constant price for the dollar in 2005 . for example , in five years after the japan reached that level , the economic economy increased by 3.6 % annually . in south korea , growth fell by 4.8 % , and the population was still growing . in hong kong , the speed limit was 5.8 % , but it was n't enough . given that china is expected to exceed the same threshold this year , many believe that its average annual growth in the next five years will fall below 7 % .
after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . pompeo 's main attack on obama 's famous cairo speech , " a new beginning , " is that it included the public 's public participation in the past bad actions of the united states in the region . unlike the ump administration , obama and his advisers believed that it would be possible to gain a lot of money by recognizing difficult political truths , even if they were trying to express themselves to radical changes .
some of the best people who serve the church - or who have served in the past - are from small countries . preventing small countries - and other large - from competing for specific vacant places reduces the potential of the executive board . given the permanent status of large countries on board the executive board , it is also easier for politicians to control the issue through the appointment process . it is much harder to appoint a puppet to the board in an open competition system than in the present scheme . the last thing the ecb needs is a political ony of chancellor gerhard schroeder , who assumes mr issing 's key post .
but the cost of labor is much quicker in the south , leading to a difference in costs that can not be solved by devaluation until the monetary union is settled . if this internal difference is still ongoing , the eurozone crisis can not be fully resolved , as current-account deficits and / or slow growth will continue to follow the southern eurozone countries , and there will be concerns about government debt and commercial banks . in this context , productivity growth , whether technical progress is made , by means of better funds or investments in production , is as important as the southern economy 's wage restraint . in fact , excessive wage reduction is likely to have a negative impact on productivity . it is likely that skilled labor will move faster , and that it will be extremely risky , and that prices will fall , and unemployment - and the likelihood of social tension - will not be beneficial for investment , innovation , or labor mobility .
of course , that does n't mean there 's no identity to be asked . the former prime minister john major called uk " the country of long shadows on cricket grounds , warm beer , unbeatable green suburbs , dog lovers , pools , and , as george said , " old maids , who are constantly following the morning mist ... " but he really described the gland . indeed , the key elements of modern british identity are all of the england , not the composite body . the church of the church of the church of the church of the czech republic , which was created nearly 500 years ago , when king henry vii decided that the catholic pope should not rule out his marriage . the institution called the english heritage is curtailed by ancient monuments of stone and old houses , which are celebrated in the drama of television costumes .
abe and obama are focused on creating a permanent peace structure for all of asia , and abe is eager to play a more active role in this area and support its allies . this stance makes the alliance a much more equal partnership than it has been for the last six decades . in the view of america , the reinterpretation of article 9 of the " peace constitution " of japan , which is committed - so that japan 's self-defense forces can help allies in attack , and to assist us and other allies in fulfilling their commitments to secure the peace of asia - have been delayed for a long time . the bold policy initiative - faced with the deeply entrenched skepticism of the japanese public - has undoubtedly been given to us by diplomats and military strategies , and has secured the open and sometimes silent approval of japanese neighbors . given the american concerns about many other strategic partners " readiness , military cooperation is now particularly important .
ireland is in a crucial moment in its history - and as long as the long line of citizens who want to vote clearly show their voices , the irish know it . indeed , despite the lack of transparency in the irish regime , khamenei 's health problems are public . khamenei himself recently admitted that the likelihood of his successor being named in the near future was " not low . " the question of who is the president during this transition is certainly not insignificant . khamenei , who had served as president before he reached the highest political and religious position of ian , could easily see that the conservative candidate raisi would be the successor of khamenei .
moreover , north korea 's development of nuclear weapons , economic instability , and uncertainty about its future as a state , is a cause of deep concern among its neighbors . despite all these obstacles , it is clear that the momentum is being developed to overcome them in the context of regional cooperation . the recent three-sided summit of china , south korea and japan are the fourth meeting , which is also held at international gatherings , such as the top of the summer . unfortunately , china 's leaders , south korea and japan have not made a major breakthrough in the most sensitive security issues that have been divided . but this lack of rapid success does not mean that these efforts are futile , and that is why we are not trying to succeed .
and , of course , the hard-pressed middle-class american consumers benefit from the very low cost of chinese imports - the effect of the market market - which allows them to expand budgets in a period of constant pressure on jobs and real incomes . for more than 20 years , mutual beneficial codependence has served both countries well to offset their own imbalances , while satisfying their growth agenda . but here , the past should not be regarded as a prologue , but it is not . the seismic shift is in place , and the recent fiscal follies of america may well be a tip . china has made a conscious strategic decision to change its growth strategy , but it is not a good idea .
10 years of government bonds are now only 2.5 % of the total amount of debt . the current inflation rate of more than 2 % , and the market 's expectations of inflation in the long term ( measured by inflation expectations in the five-year period of inflation in the years ahead ) , should be higher than 4 % . the increase in 10-year yield to 4 % would significantly reduce the value of these bonds . other long-term bonds - both government and corporate bonds - would be similar . reaching for yield also has reduced the rate of credit spreads between high-grade bonds and risky domestic bonds and emerging markets .
without such confidence , credit will not be released , and economic activity will be limited . moreover , as financial institutions have been purchased mainly by borrowed funds , the lack of credit is exacerbated by the need to reduce the amount of credit . since raising capital is difficult and costly , it is reduced by lending to them . but macroeconomic weakness is now beyond the reduced supply of credit . the reduction in wages reduces wages and salary income , but the reduction in the number of employees is not enough .
america could sell risky financial products and speculated speculation around the world could well serve its businesses , even if they would have high costs for others . today , the risk is that the new key doctrines will be used and abused to serve the same interests . do you have those who have pushed deregulation a decade ago , they 've learned their lesson ? or will they simply seek cosmetic reforms - the minimum necessary to justify bailouts for mega-trillion dollars ? is there a change in the heart or just a change in strategy ?
this growth has been driven by a number of factors , and the number of factors has been reduced . wage restrictions and productivity gains have improved competitiveness , which is why export exports have increased . and now that oil prices are lower and unemployment is decreasing by five points , the recovery is increasing . in short , the credibility gained by ireland through decisive fiscal policy and reforms has helped restore confidence , facilitate growth growth , and thus fiscal consolidation . of course , the precise policy approach to one country can not be imitated elsewhere .
the third element is the exercise of a system of bondholders to achieve maximum participation , obtain binding pre-binding commitments and eliminate free riders . since this regime would mean a loss of bondholders , it is necessary to have significant official muscles and mutual pressure . but getting time for more orderly solutions , mitigating contagion , and reducing the number of eventual write-offs , is , in fact , a better outcome . therefore , in this model - and despite the initial pressure - bondholders " behavior could be regarded as voluntary . and while rating agencies could consider the outcome of the vienna-type model as a default , the language sages show us why it is necessary to consider a more thoughtful classification .
in a way , the market economy is a system of exchange of gift-exchange ; money is merely tracking the value of gifts we give each other . as a result , the market economy is encouraging specialization : we are very good in a narrow range of skills and products , and we are replacing them with millions of other things that we do n't know how to do or do . as a result , we do remarkably few things and we buy everything from others . this observation is as true as a place where the place is located , the city , the state , the province or the country . every city has shops , beautiful lounges , gas stations and cinemas that serve the local community .
another consortium began building oil and gas pipelines for several billion dollars from azerbaijan to george to turkey and west . but these investments did not bring down economic flows , and they did not reduce them . people here survive a couple of dollars , and they do n't have to worry . oil and gas pipelines are transport lines , not real employers , but the real ones . moreover , george 's reward for providing a strategic export route to the west for azeri oil was not dollars , but a diplomatic policy - especially west , we are concerned about the security of pipelines .
the japanese shares are worth half the price of the japanese stock in the 1990 " s. even in hong kong , where shares have recently reached new highs , they are only 10 % higher than the peak of 1994 . in the same three-year period , prices in the streets of walls and europe rose by 60 % . this picture does not have any connection to what we hear in political speeches or in the paper . politicians warn of the challenge posed by asia 's " tiger economy . "
national banking systems should be unified in order to separate private losses from public debt , with central supervision and resolution authorities , and the deposit-insurance system , which is the basis of the eurozone 's banking union . strong central authorities , directly elected parliament , need to coordinate fiscal and economic policies . in the short term , the single market should be extended to services and free trade arrangements should be promoted either in a multi-laterally or in billing with major trading partners , such as in the united states . austerity should be eliminated , especially in the financial and financial sectors that are stronger , and substantial resources should be earmarked for strengthening employment and investment in small and medium-sized enterprises in countries that are too indebted . the germany 's reluctance to lead these issues partly reflects historical inhibitions that are difficult to overcome .
china , which has just celebrated with a martial pomp on the 16th anniversary of mao 's founding of the people 's republic , is one of the most interesting cases of a nation that evites " short sightedness " in the past . china has a lot of things to do in its recent past , and it 's not going to happen . consider the huge approach to education of its vast rural population , unlike its " democratic rival " india . in sixty years , a weak and divided country , one divided by wars of internal and external , will be the world 's second world economy . china 's insolent prosperity , even if it is not yet distributed , china 's relative political stability , even if the regime 's opening of the system is strictly limited , is undeniable and worthy of respect .
the interest premium , which would inevitably require young people like scotland , could be reduced by the fact that they would reduce their debt in the supply of the market , thereby protecting investors from further devaluation risks . but without its current central bank , scotland would have predicted a seigniorage ( profits from central-bank operations , which would normally benefit the treasury ) . more importantly , the bank and financial system would not be able to stabilize the last resort . all of this would be best served by independent scotland by the introduction of its own national currency , which would be able to force scotland 's national bank to set interest rates according to domestic economic conditions . this approach would also allow for flexibility in exchange rates , so that the central bank would avoid the double risks posed by the currency union : the undervaluation , which would create inflation pressure and overvaluation , which would require the acquisition of internal devaluation ( a reduction in real wages ) .
the services increased to more than 50 % of the total share of the workforce , and private sector produced nearly 60 % of russian output . although the transition was painful , russia 's corruption epidemic caused more political damage than the economic side of the reform . government tolerance for bribery and blackmail enabled opponents to claim that the mafia was taking advantage of economic change . the government and thus economic reform will pay for this neglect . corruption has been a source of reforms in the world of the former communist .
he 's not corrupt or a war criminal , he 's not aggressive in his violent behavior or behavior , and he 's not likely to violate the law for personal power . many people voted for him by default , and now and in 2000 he defeated miloševic . although he does not sacrifice the main moral principles of power , he is not an unassuming lawyer . he craves his party with mediocrities , selects mostly bad advisers , and does n't listen to the rare ones . it is possible that his image as a democrat conceals to the right center , who would like to reconstruct the monarchy of pre-wwii and orthodox church , would play a major role in political and social life .
or yellow vests can turn out to be so bold and comfortable with the taste of being seen on television . they will allow themselves to be poisoned by the sight of the luminaries and experts from the " la france d'en haut " ( elite france ) , as if they were eating from their hands and hanging on to each word . but if the yellow vests allow a passionate hatred of victory over the real fraternity and choose to destroy themselves , they will only bring chaos , not improvement , to the lives of the humble and vulnerable people . they will be taken to the darkest side of the political night and end up in a garbage bin of history , where they can rub their elbows with the other yellows , the yellow socialists of the early twentieth century , the proto-fascist syndicate of the bierre biétry . yellow vests must choose : democratic renewal or updated version of national socialist leagues ; repair will or destroy .
according to the vice-president of the irish business council , " it is very difficult to trade in ireland . " the former diplomat in ireland described the business climate in stark terms : " it seems that the irish prefer to lose the loss of a loss to a win-winning man in dealing with foreign partners . " what lessons can be drawn from the fact that turquoise businesses do not go to iraq ? others say that ian 's almost non-existent banking system is a perpetrator of the case . others blame the " invisible hand of america , " which is expected to be feared that the turkey and ian could be too powerful .
in addition , we must invest in research and development of low-cost diabetes and diagnostic tools suitable for low-resource environments . intelligent cooperation projects that bring innovative thinkers from non-profit , academia and private sectors together to create effective , affordable and appropriate solutions are desperately needed . diabetes is not unique in the ncds , and it is not a unique type of diabetes . the essential medicines and technologies for diagnosing and treating heart disease , cancer and respiratory disease are also significantly less available , and are more affordable for people with low and medium income than for rich people . this disparity prompted the medical journal lancet to call a crisis of the ncd " social justice issue . "
southern orange , new jersey - if international organizations have recommended improving the country 's economy , and the country has taken less than half of them , it may seem that the organization has failed . but international organisations should be assessed in accordance with the quality of information and advice provided by the government , not by listening . the objective of the measure , which is to measure its success only on the basis of compliance , is not taken into account : promoting and facilitating reforms by informing officials of its costs and benefits . each 18 months , the economic cooperation organisation and development organisation shall publish an economic survey of all 34 member states , including a list of recommendations and their implementation status . in 2010 , the united states survey carried out 29 recommendations from the recovery of the national electricity grid to extend the coverage of health care to the implementation of the cap-and-trade system .
he must also not weaken the alliance between us and south korea and japan , which will require him to keep close contact with the moon and japanese prime minister shinzo throughout the process , so that the leader does not consider himself to be ignored or undermined . in addition , all options should be kept on the table , although military options are less tenable in the inter-korean dialogue . the most important thing is to get north korean regime to at least acknowledge that the real denuclearization is the goal and agree to continue the dialogue process , which may be the end of the next summit . whatever the result , trump would do well if he asked himself if it was better than a joint comprehensive action plan with ian , which he described as " the worst thing he had ever done . " then again , persuading the trump to engage in self-reflection could prove to be the toughest challenge .
another way to look at the outcome of the election in germany is the possibility of a new start . the end of the cdu-spd " great coalition " could mean an end to political stagnation not just in germany , but also in europe . the german coalition negotiations are underway after the election , and the sdp decided not to join the government , but the most likely result is the alliance of jamaica ( named according to the colours of the flag of the country ) , which includes a free democrats ( fdp ) and green . the german government , one hope , will include pro-european politicians with new ideas and will be willing to push for reforms at european level , possibly in accordance with what macron has proposed . in this case , a new crop of leaders could be a driving force that would shape germany 's role for the next few years in europe .
the timing of the action could not be worse , and the timing of the action could not be worse . the elimination of fuel subsidies has caused riots and widespread attacks on the transition government , which has excuse the generals of nigeria to regain control of the military . it would take six years before nigeria got a chance to get democracy . last year , nigeria celebrated a remarkable escape from the dictatorship . after the brutal and corrupt military ruler of general abacha , who suddenly died , the military severely agreed to the next national election .
these barriers are particularly high for lgbtqi , women with disabilities , women from the country , women from the country , and adolescents . instead of promoting the issue of gender and reproductive health - and gender equality - governments must acknowledge their responsibility for addressing women 's needs . they must take into account the central role of women 's life in the area of gender and reproductive health , the integrated nature of women 's health and the influence of society . they must therefore design the uhc programs and therefore have to be designed . for example , in order to reduce maternal mortality , it is not enough to provide antennas , safe delivery and post-natal care ; women need access to safe , legal and affordable abortion services and care for abortions .
there has also been little progress in the fight against nuclear weapons , regardless of the non-proliferation agreement . the supply of energy , food , water and biodiversity is increasing in a security environment that is characterised by an increase in competition for access to natural resources or control of them . in order to address the complex challenges of this complex reality , it is necessary to support brazil 's peaceful foreign policy . the national defence strategy of brazil , updated in 2012 , states that the modernisation of armed forces is closely linked to the development of the state . it therefore emphasises that the need to strengthen the domestic defense industry is necessary .
the chinese star of the houston rocket of the national association of chinese could become a new michael jordan . the large atriate community in the us - 2.4 million chinese and 1.7 million indians - has increased interest in their country 's domestic interests among other americans . moreover , transnational contacts in the information industry are close , as western companies are increasingly employed in bangalore and shanghai in real time . but the real promise of china and india is in the future , and it is not . the country 's soft power lies in the attractiveness of its culture , appeal to its domestic political and social values , style and substance of foreign policy .
the european commission 's agreement in septum to postpone the full implementation of the agreement on the association of ukraine with the european union - a deal that ukrainians fought and died in kyiv last winter - has signaled that cunning , force and intimidation can be won by western approval of ukraine and theft of crimea . the delay , which was intended to show the eu decision to make the association agreement work , only increased putin 's appetite . he hopes that the interest of some members of the eu group to secure russian gas supplies during the winter will force them to forget the security interests of their allies - a classic strategy of divides and rules that have been served as a cold . the euro can not afford to be taken into account by the european union . the ukraine may now be passing through the eye of the storm , but it is not possible .
to that end , it is essential to reconstruct the constitution in order to incorporate regional interests and to recognize that uk is a multinational state . such radical changes - and , in order to respond to the crisis , must be radical - will require a national debate that could be conducted by a constitutional convention on people . this convention should begin by examining the impact of brexit on regions in the area . for example , we should ask if it is reasonable to repatriate the powers and financial transfers from britain to westminster , or if some powers and funds should be transferred to regions and countries . regional funds and powers to make decisions - including environmental regulations and surveillance of agriculture , fisheries and local social programs - should be delegated to the competent regional authorities , such as the scottish parliament , the welsh and northern irish assembly , the mayor and the local authorities .
as a result , we are no longer able to set up a global agenda . instead , we ca n't take the place of the world 's leader . but it can set an example for both of them within their own borders and beyond . the prospect of membership is the most effective tool for the transition of candidate countries to open society . although most of his citizens do n't realise it , the place is an inspiring example .
putin considers the olympics - and specifically medals - very important . he is a great warrior , like his old soviet masters , and he is proud of the athletic glory of the military . that 's why he personally lobbied for russia to play winter games in sochi 2014 ; the price tag was worth $ 50 billion , given that russia had won the most valuable medals . ( it was russia 's actions during the sochi olympics , which form the basis of the doping scandal . ) this is not a claim that athletic fame is replaced by military fame , but also a model of the world .
but this is just an attempt to get a virtue from necessity : for a country where one of the world 's biggest and most respected bureaucracies is , china is surprisingly difficult to tell its business community that it is not a business relationship with someone , especially a historical friend and ally . the long-term reluctance of chinese leaders to participate in international sanctions is often attributed to their belief in assessing actions whether they work or not . perhaps the real pragmatism of the display in north korea is a reluctance to limit the business community at a time of slower growth and internal fixation . china 's rise is one of the most important developments in our time , according to the study . after all , it is a country that can be described as civilization , and its trajectory is much more impressive than any of the north korean rockets .
washington , dc - a sharp fall in oil prices since the end of the june is taking place around the world - and it is a contradictory explanation . some attribute a decline in expectations of global growth , which is largely due to global growth . others are focused on the expansion of oil and gas production in america , which is why it is not possible to develop the industry . others still suspect that saudi arabia and the united states have signed a silent agreement , which , among other things , weakens political rivals such as russia or ireland . regardless of the reason for the fall in prices - which is likely to be found in some of these factors - the consequences are the same .
the global oil situation is very interesting at the moment , and it is now very interesting . oil prices are still high , although the world 's soft world economy means world demand is low . the fashion of the idea that the us seizure of iraq 's oil resources would break the opec and send oil plummeting prices is nonsense . even with better security measures , iraq will be on the stream for five years . the us economy is now recovering heavily , and oil prices should remain high , or even increase further , in the foreseeable future .
if the markets really believed the ecb would refuse to stop the rebellious government , investors would be able to escape from participating countries at first , according to which conditions were not met . as with its predecessor , the securities market program , the omt program is legally and democratically dubious : it contradicts the spirit , but not the letter of the euro union clause , and its promise of equal treatment with private creditors is still not a precedent , and it is a tax transfer , and the decision is heavily exposed to political backlash - witness to the visceral response of the german press to the ecb president mario draghi 's announcement . but it also fits well with a large number of historical evidence that politicians must focus on extinguishing the fire in times of crisis , rather than negotiating over who owns water and what is the price . the omt program will cause credit conditions to be released , but it will not necessarily be a financial balkanization of the eurozone that has been in the last three years . the reverse of this process will likely occur only after three key elements of the banking union - common supervision , common deposit insurance and joint resolution fund - are within reach .
for example , a bipartisan proposal should be implemented for support from premiums , while seniors should receive subsidies for the purchase of private health insurance . in order to enable individuals to be prepared to cover the related deductible items and copies , health savings accounts should be extended and strengthened , which are not subject to income tax . the premium support may significantly reduce medicare spending , as it establishes a framework for more effective spending on benefits , which is caused by competition and innovation in the area of care and coverage . the only candidate for the presidential election , who has yet to recognize the need for such a future-oriented approach , is former florida governor jeb , who proposed modernizing social security reforms and medics , which prevent the imposition of high costs for middle-income americans and a more significant burden for future generations . two other republican candidates , governor of ohio john kasich and senator marco rubio , have also expressed constructive ideas about reforms .
silvio berlusconi , president of europe 's union on julia one , is a man of vision who once loved the risk - and whose business bets have paid a large sum . in 1960 , he first saw the milan , then the traditional italian city , where people went to work , became a modern metropolis surrounded by the suburbs of america . so his wealth began to develop in real estate , and he was still in the world . fifteen years later , signor berlusoni understood that the italian television monopoly would not survive , and that it would begin to run what became the main media group in private ownership . but you wo n't win in a real estate and television without proper political contacts .
beijing - financial repression - government policies that create a low-or negative environment of real interest rates , with a view to financing cheap public spending , has long been a key element of chinese economic policy . but with the financial costs of developing businesses , this is finally beginning to change . the chinese government , the state council , this year , reduced the cost of financing for businesses , especially small and medium-sized enterprises , the highest priority . the chinese bank ( pboc ) has carefully released money , which includes the release of more funds for lending by banks , which have divided some of their total portfolio of loans into smes . the pboc , via its " promised supplementary lending " programme , has also started providing direct loans to banks that promised to use funds for building social housing .
countries that are the biggest concern for russia - ukraine , estonia , latvia and lithuania - are not offered to membership in the country . russia is too weak today , as the disastrous accident of the russian military in chechnya shows . russia will one day be stronger , and if the expansion of the nato to central europe would deter the recovery of foreign policy , it would be a strong argument . but the expansion of the nato is unlikely to make russia 's foreign policy more peaceful . russia 's democrats , who are deeply involved in the peaceful future , insist that the expansion of alliance membership in central europe will separate their country from europe , strengthen russia 's political forces , which favor the authoritarian government of the country and the foreign foreign policy , and , as it seems , threaten russia , and provide a decisive point to reconstruct russian military power .
but that would mean a small gesture toward the palestinians , who consider themselves to be deeply divided between them , so that there is no way to make peace . the israel 's leaders seem to want to take time tactically , to resist the weak pressure of president barack obama 's government and strategically prepare the country for a new world in which porcelain is becoming increasingly important . but the world will be one of the ones in which israel will no longer rely on the feelings of the holocaust guilt that affect the great power . it is a world where monotheistic rivalry will be diluted in the ocean of polytheist faiths , and in which the israel can only rely on its comparative values in terms of cynical , realistic actors who will judge it exclusively on the basis of their national interests . the island may be " of europe , " and its main ally may well remain united for many years , but the leaders of the israeli must begin to think about how their country can thrive in the post-west world .
the last trick , " hungry animals , " usually comes later , when the president has signed up his tax cuts and reveals that smoke and mirrors do n't fall into reality . he ca n't find enough spending to cut ( the magic asteroid has disappeared into the sleeve of a conjurer ) , the acceleration in the gdp is not visible ( the pink scenario has disappeared ) , and the tax revenues have not grown ( no rabbit in the laffer 's hat ) . the audience is now told that the loss of tax revenues and the expansion of the budget deficit is planned . the artist explains that congress is guilty of not cutting spending , and that the only way to tame the animal is to increase the budget deficit , as congress ca n't spend the money he does n't have . of course , this trick is never going to work , of course , but it 's not going to work .
but it is also necessary to mobilize the public opinion of the european union in the light of the symbol of our unity and future projects : this symbol is a european flag . for this reason , one of us in january has introduced the idea that , starting on the 21st march , we will display flag on houses , factories and offices . 21 is the first spring day , and we want to believe that the upcoming election in europe will bring a new spring to europe . the 21st anniversary of the death of benedict , patron saint of europe . in one of the darkest hours of the demise of the roman empire , the benedict issued a stirring call for tolerance and piety to restore the sense of community in the face of nihilism and barbarism .
this is consistent with a broader trend , in which attacks of perpetrators with muslim backgrounds are immediately classified as " acts of terror " and are addressed in a well-resourced and systemic way , while violent attacks are considered to be " isolated . " but there 's nothing special about these events , and i do n't know what 's going on . according to the 2018 index , the number of deaths is expected to be attributed to terrorist attacks , which have been linked to far-right groups or individuals since 2014 . in the united states , extremists have carried out far more attacks than islamists . the attack in christine was directly inspired by a terrorist attack in 2011 , which i am among the few who survived .
the fruit of the franco-german partnership included a single euro currency , euro . after the birth of 1999 , the german government , once again from bonn to berlin , satisfied with the euro profile . this modest and unassuming role belongs to the past , although the german 's power must still be matched by imagination . the intellectual leadership of the european union 's founding fathers , such as the jehou monnet and robert schuman , is a fading memory , as many people have yet to create a relatively strong strategy to restore the prospects and popularity of eu . the strongest and most reliable member countries are undoubtedly not in sight of where the euro should be heading .
china was involved in a so-called " seller financing , " which provided money that would help finance large tax and trade deficits , and american citizens would be able to buy more goods than they were selling . but this is a special arrangement : a relatively poor country is helping to finance the iraqi war , and a massive tax cut for the wealthiest people in the world 's richest countries , while the huge needs of the country are a sufficient space for expansion of consumption and investment . in order to meet the challenge of restructuring china 's economy , which is not covered by export and resources , china must support consumption . while the rest of the world is struggling to save , porcelain is struggling to make people more consumed . better social services ( health care , education and national pension programmes ) would reduce the need for " precautionary " savings .
the sale of five bags of shampoo to poor consumers is considered to be a clever sale , but the use of 5,000 rupees to hungry peasants is regarded as a highly interesting use . both activities are funded by investors seeking returns on their capital and are motivated by profit rather than compassion . but one is clearly less socially acceptable than the other , and the other one is more likely to be able to accept it . a high salary paid by the manufacturer of cosmetics or soft drinks does not attract attention ; one paid to the ceo of a society that thrives on lending to the poor seems inappropriate , though not immoral . but pmfis has succeeded in meeting the real need for a real one .
berkeley - advances in artificial intelligence and robotics are driven by a new wave of automation , with machines matching or performing people in a fast-growing range of tasks , including some who require complex cognitive capabilities and higher degrees . this process exceeded the expectations of experts , and it was not surprising that the possible adverse effects on employment and quality were seriously concerned . if you listen to the administration of president donald trump , it might be assumed that trade remains the main reason for the loss of jobs in the united states . trump 's treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , declared that any technological displacement of workers was " not even on the radar screen of [ the administration ] . " however , economists have agreed that 80 % of the loss of jobs in the manufacturing industry has been caused by labor-saving and technological changes in manufacturing , while trade is coming closer .
berkeley - in the late 1980 " s , japan 's view could not be mistaken in the eyes of economists . they saw a clear edge in the competitiveness of japan in relation to the north atlantic , which was a broad range of high-tech and mass manufacturing products . they also saw the economy , which , after the reconstruction of world war ii , has significantly exceeded the expected growth of europe 's economy . and they saw that the economy was growing much faster than the north atlantic economy , when they had the same absolute and relative productivity as in the entire economy . the safe bet in the late 1980 " s seemed to be that mechanization , computer and robotics would continue .
the war between the people of arab palestine and the palestine of the palestine is only two wars : a war against israel and the jews , which will build a fundamentalist islamic state in the arabis , and the war for the palestinian people , is only for independent reasons . on the contrary , the israel is fighting two wars : a fair war to defend its right to exist , taking place in the middle of the east , and in the middle of it , it is a disproportionate and futile war , which will forever keep its profession on the west bank , the belt of gaza and the jewish estate . there are about 220,000 residents of the west bank and gaza , except for the fact that there are about 190,000 people living in the neighborhood of the jerseys , which extend beyond the borders of the old , jersed-out jerseys before 1967 . despite the inaugural , the number of settlers decreased only in a few 144 settlements , and there were more than 7,000 settlers in the gaz area , 16 communities , who occupied 20 % of the poor country , and now had one of the world 's highest population density . the state support for the expansion of the settlement is significant in terms of the spread of the settlement .
the market response was that the rate of bond between the government and the government would be even higher . unlike some of the perceptions , the europeans have not acted inactive in recent years . they do n't know what they 're doing , but they 've lost their touch . they are still trying to impress the magic , but they do n't deliver results - or worse - to prove counter-productive . meanwhile , financial fragmentation in the eurozone continues , and in a smaller scale , credit spending is clearly unstoppable , and political strains are increasingly visible .
in the case of asia , which has been riven by territorial disputes and historical tensions , it will not be easy to maintain a stable security balance . but there are levers in place that can help us with the help of the machines . in the 1990s , when president clinton 's government considered how to respond to china 's growing economic needs , some urged a policy of containment . clinton refused this advice : it would be impossible to forge an anti-china alliance , given the enduring desire of chinese neighbors to maintain good relations with china , and , more importantly , such a policy would guarantee a future enmity with china . instead , clinton chose a policy that could be called " integration and insecurity . "
interest and identity are dynamically formed , as politicians offer their representation and citizens respond . for example , trump managed to convince some americans to look at themselves as part of a white identity movement . but the identity and manner of his followers could change again . the image of an irresistible populist of " waves " has always been misleading . the farage did not bring about the brexit all by itself , and he did not .
they will facilitate the interaction of their networks in order to promote innovation ecosystems . the resulting opportunities for extending the market for traditional products and pharmaceutical companies will enable pharmaceutical companies to develop into companies offering a range of health-care solutions . these include not only prescription medicines , but also diagnostic , branded generics and technologies that support personalised medicine , but also so-called " neutraceu.europa.eu " and other " wellness options . " although the scope of many r & d organizations is bound to be reduced by these reforms , the complexity of managing and maximizing the impact of this external network of relationships will require new skills and skills , above all , the possibilities of excellent science . the development and rewarding of workers who possess such skills will be complementary , but welcome , challenge .
economics is not a science in which one real model can work best . the point is not to reach consensus on which model is right , " as the mer says , but to find out which model is best used in the setting . and that 's what it 's always going to be like , not science , especially if you have to choose real time . the social world is different from the physical world , because it is made up of artificial and therefore almost infinite . so , unlike natural sciences , the economy is scientifically evolving , and it does not replace the old models with better models , but by extending the library of models , and every light is reflected in different social differences .
today , the agricultural sector accounts for only one-third of china 's total employment compared to half of china 's total employment in india . the structural transformation of india and sustainable growth will support its efforts to create a flexible labor market , which will focus on easing outdated and complex employment legislation . the legal protection of workers in the official sector of india exceeds the protection of most developed countries and china , while increasing the number of employees is increasing . as the jagdish bhagwati and arvind panagariya pointed out , excessive labour market rules deter entrepreneurs from using non-skilled workers and developing labor and developing labor intensive manufacturing , suggesting that the indian government should double its efforts to reform the area . equally important , indian workers - especially young - need to constantly improve their skills .
the new policy explicitly encourages chinese businesses to work with local businesses in sectors such as logistics , electricity , and information systems , and promotes interaction between businesses , communities and government leaders . equally important , this policy also extends the availability of chinese funds , loans and insurance to investors . we have taken this holistic approach together , and it 's something new for china . despite the considerable political uncertainty of many countries in latin america , the region seems eager to face china 's efforts to reform . for example , the brazil government has supported the " investment partnership " programme in order to coordinate investments in financial and transport infrastructure .
of course , the gdp composition will eventually provide an acid test , whether porcelain succeeds . but the key word here is " in the end . " it is too early to expect significant changes in aggregate demand . it is now more important to examine trends in the consumption of chinese . from that point of view , optimism is justified , especially given the accelerated growth of china 's services - one of the key blocks of the consumer balance .
the presidency certainly grants considerable power to create trade policy , so it is not possible to ignore the possibility of pursuing protectionist measures to appease its supporters . but in the end , we do n't have any support for the return to closed borders . meanwhile , the euro is moving in the opposite direction , and the opposite direction is the same . europe 's multinationals are also in a chinese economy , and manufacturing is now almost double . many europeans see trade as an opportunity , not as a threat to employment , and even europe 's staunchly anti-global anti-global anti-global experts do not show much appetite for more protectionism .
when he took his job , manafort owed the russian oligarch to deripaska , an aluminum magnate , close to president vladimir , a total of $ 19 million . deripaska , who is subject to sanctions , has maintained a 10-million annual contract with the workforce . like other russian oligarchs , deripaska is not known to be treated with people who do n't like him . after he took his job , manafort emailed an employee based on ukraine-based , " how do we use it to get it all ? " manafort also offered to brief the derivation of what was happening in the trump campaign .
yiv - from the snowy kyiv , i have watched the successful revolution in cairo and tunis with joy and admiration . egyptians and tunisians are right to be proud of their desire to bring down despotic governments in peace . but as someone who led a peaceful revolution , i hope that pragmatism is tempered by pride , as the change in regime is the first step in the creation of democracy supported by the rule of law . indeed , as my country is now showing , after revolutionary euphoria is over , and normality returns , democratic revolutions can be reversed and betrayed . the first lessons of ukraine for egyptian and tunisian democrats are that elections do not lead democracy .
increasingly , we use fingerprints or faces to unlock smartphones , pay for purchases and planes . the protection against theft is clear : what use is a phone , a car or a ticket that only works for its legitimate owner ? above all , biometrics can protect themselves from stealing our identities . this is the case behind the world 's biggest biometrics project , a multi-modal solution ( iris , fingerprints and faces ) , which has more than a billion indians . the chairman of fosys , who left his job to create a system called aadhaar , credits it to save the indian government for $ 9 billion by removing duplicate and false identities in the lists of government recipients .
nearly six months ago , at the moment of the global financial crisis and economic crisis , leaders of g-20 met at a historic summit in london . their collective commitments to stimulate , regulate and restructure global economic activity have helped to calm the world down . many of the problems that have prompted the summit of london remain real . anxiety levels may have fallen in the market for the establishment of the city 's premises and stock markets , but the drama of survival is continuing . the united states and the world bank are predicting that the direct and indirect effects of economic collapse will be long in developing countries .
did we observe the appearance of someone who knew the disasters that had not yet come ? or was she the most beautiful girl in the party - the one who invited an eager adolescent to dance and then held firm ? the world is now collectively writing a new novel , and i 'm not going to change anything . the tragic and comic elements of this process were expertly distilled , and we were talking about the forces that could withstand the dark tide of vulgarity and violence . the first is sovereign people who have poured into the streets of all the big cities in the country , and they know that , given the total vote , they have not been trump , who have won the election .
maybe simpson has a little bit of a change in his heart , and he 's got a heart attack . he may have traveled his way to damascus , he will face what he has done , and who he has been , has been penned , and has wanted to repair some damage to america and its long-lasting economic growth prospects . but even in this case , those who do not behave in important positions of high confidence and claim them as bipartisan statesmen are a truly lousy incentive for the next generation . and it is not as if republicans in congress think they owe him enough to vote in any chamber of the legislature . obama officials assured me that simpson had changed his heart ; that he was a clever man with a sophisticated understanding of the issues ; that he could influence reporters and convince them to describe the commission 's advice as a " bipartisan " ( though he could not affect the real lawmakers ) , and that he would be a real asset to the work of the commission .
what demographics call total fertility rates is the average number of births per woman in their lives . in the long term , it is said that the population is stable if the tfr is in a replacement rate , which is a little higher than 2.3 in the world , and is somewhat lower for developed countries , taking into account the lower mortality rates of these countries . the tfr for most developed countries is now significantly below the level of replacement . the average of oecd is about 1.74 , but some countries , including germs and japan , do not produce more than 1.4 children per woman . but the biggest decline in tfr in recent years has been in developing countries .
by 2004 , there were more than a billion participants in the global service of the gsm . the global reach of this regulation was a major economy of scale in the production of handsets and network hardware , and prices fell rapidly , and the interoperability of networks and countries was much easier to achieve . many of the regulations play this role in setting standards for standards , and many of them play a role in establishing standards . contrary to the simplification of the view that the regulation is inevitably not in place , three important ways of regulating the economy can be used . one is the creation of a market and the growing role of the market , which is illustrated by the standard of gsm .
the laguna beach - when i consider the prospects for global economy and markets - i am surprised by the fact that the world has put together a huge bet on three basic outcomes : a shift towards significantly higher global growth , a policy prevention , and market accidents . although all three outcomes are undoubtedly desirable , the unfortunate fact is that they are far from certain - and betting on them without a guarantee could be extremely risky for the present and future generations . the first part of the bet - a more inclusive global growth - assumes that the united states " continued economic recovery , and this year , by increasing wage growth by 3 % . it also assumes that china 's annual growth rate will stabilize 6.5-7 % , and thus enable the risks posed by excessive leverage in the shadow banking system to be phased out , even if the economic growth engines continue to shift from exports and public capital spending to domestic consumption and private investment . another , more uncertain assumption is that the eurozone and japan will be able to escape the growth rate and avoid the elimination of the euro , which would force households and businesses to postpone the purchase decision , thereby weakening the economic performance of the economy .
clinton 's popularity grew even after the termination of the prosecution procedure , which was the case . most americans believe the indictment is a mistake , and they do n't want to be involved . many people feared that the clinton investigation would damage the presidency , but the main impact of the presidential power was the opposite . eventually , republicans agreed with democrats that the responsibility for the debacle was based on kenneth 's starlet , an independent adviser whose investigation into clinton 's real estate was eventually brought to lewinsky . the two parties allowed independent legal status to fail , and the release of the presidency from a powerful oversight , which was largely a generation later for the trump .
the last time , in 2015 , a large number of traditional labor voters left their party to vote for the uk party 's independent party , which was the first in the campaign for brexit . the establishment leaders have long tried to save their skin by criticizing the place and blaming them for demanding that national governments pursue unpopular or unpopular policies . but that only gives ideas about alternative policies , while voters will be able to direct their opposition to the election itself . although the parties to the establishment have criticized the place , they have largely not lost their view of the benefits of membership . in the referendum on uk , both main parties supported the " remain " campaign , though they were divided into two groups .
and other emerging economies do not seem to be able to catch up with the shortage . the brazil , which was touted in 2010 as a " emerging aid player , " is now in an economic and political crisis , as well as in south africa . these problems are exacerbated by the new financial rules in developed countries that reduce the flow of investments and finance for developing countries . the weakening of income from developing countries is still a slowdown in demand and a decline in commodities that , as the recent laureate of gus deaton , have been disastrous for most developing countries . to eliminate all of this , expansive monetary policies adopted by the main economies are exacerbating instability .
pakistan has a large nuclear program , facing an extensive jihadi insurgency that previously attacked military bases , suspected of housing . although pakistan has not yet experienced a nuclear failure , and the government insists that safeguards remain strong , the country 's increasingly frequent and severe instability raises serious questions about the future . while north korea 's nuclear arsenal is much smaller , the constant doubt about sustainability is a serious concern . in the event of a collapse of the regime - a distinct possibility - it would be difficult to prevent its use of its assets or even use its weapons . ian seems relatively stable , at least in comparison with his neighbors .
but this was not a deal with us-iran ; six leading powers were negotiated and supported by the united states . these powers should clearly clarify that they do not impose sanctions , and that any of us will try to impose their will on foreign policy - say , using access to clearing systems for dollar clearing systems as a foreign policy tool - would be dealt with by coordinated measures . especially uk , this may require a willingness to disagree with us in a foreign policy that will not be pleasant for some of our " special relationships . " as far as climate change is concerned , the election of a man who believes global warming is a chinese fraud that has caused the damage to american trade is a bad news . but global momentum can be achieved to overcome climate change , and it must be maintained .
paradoxically , in pessimistic scenario , the new irishman government , controlled by conservatives and hardliners , is in fact better suited to the region than the current . after all , the authoritarian hardliners , who are not interested in de-escalating regional conflicts , rule out saudi arabia , egypt and many other states . this would make it extremely difficult to restore leadership focused on reforms in ireland . of course , the most likely scenario is the combination of both dynamics of the economy . but , given that the interest of all the members of the republic of estonia is to ensure that the development of hew is more closely related to the path of reform-oriented , it is clear that diplomatic work in relation to iran is not yet complete .
as a result of the collapse of the lehman brothers in septum 2008 , minister geilio tremonti , italy 's then-finance minister , the state 's health system , was confirmed . as a result , the main recapitalization of italian banks and the creation of a " bad bank " for the absorption of non-pls was deemed unnecessary . ten years later , it is no longer the land of a flourishing bank and happy savers . the economic crisis and economic malaise have eroded the individual savings rate , while banks no longer have the resources to keep their minds on many retail investors , whose confidence has been severely disrupted . by the end of 2015 , the default pact between banks and savers was broken when four local banks were arrested and shareholders were involved .
many poles are wary of the church 's approach to democracy and are allergic to aggressive politics . it is a sad paradox that , for many ex-communists , who stand against the church , pose a defense of liberal democratic values that have been pursued by unremitting zeal . the strategy of seduction , which kwasnić called for a large number of young and middle classes , but most of all , peasants , unemployed , and people who stayed behind the growing economy of the poland . so the man who spoke much about the future has become a powerful saddle for the votes of the past . this link will be the presidency of the dog kwasnić 's presidency .
there has now been a consensus on the need for help to small owners , but the obstacles are still in place . the main risk is that the " auxiliary bureaucracies " will now go through the other side to try to get $ 20 billion , so much of it will be taken by meetings , expert consultations , reports , and other meetings . " partnership " of donors can become a costly end , only to delay real action . if donor governments really want results , they should take the money from their hands for 30 or more separate government institutions and put them in one or two places , the most logical thing is to be a global bank in washington and an international agricultural development fund . one or two of them would have had a couple of billion dollars .
the british economy is likely to be the most important source of global growth . they represent more than a quarter of the land , more than 41 % of the population , nearly 25 % of the world 's stock , and nearly half of all foreign-exchange and gold reserves . in fact , brics can also be called a r-5 , after the currency of its members - real , ruble , ruped-up , renminbi and rand . at the new summit of delhi , the british will discuss the creation of joint institutions , especially a common bank for developing development , which will help mobilize savings between countries . at the moment , the british countries are a free and informal bloc , which is why they are not involved in the fight .
on the contrary , the conversation must be changed to make sure that their economic future is clear . as it stands , british , like their counterparts in europe , feel overburdened with the fact that they are constantly being cut off by the public services , and they are angry that their income has fallen over the last five years . as a result , many people oppose welfare recipients and fear competition for jobs - a sense that will lead to an increase in populist , anti-eu , and anti-immigrant parties across europe . the main difference in uk is that voters are gaining ground with voters , despite rapid economic growth ( the highest rate is 3 % per year ) . cameron must convince voters that the british economy will continue to act decisively and fueling real incomes .
it 's about what milton friedman called " long and variable lags . " thus , policies aimed at raising employment after the end of this calendar year , say , should be implemented about a year ago , so that they can achieve their full effect . some countries - for example , china - have implemented these job-making policies a year ago , and they have already seen benefits . others , like the united states , did not , and unemployment is about 10 % . this is not meant to mean that the obama government did not attempt to increase employment .
the cost of higher human capital - such as electronic consumer goods - is much higher than the cost of boot and r & d , so the production of these goods in the assembly line in the country of low prices is unlikely to be very costly compared to r & d and other intangible costs . for more advanced goods , the added value of the eu programme ( if the intangible part of the production process is in europe ) is quite high . the imposition of trade protection against such goods , even if it is legally justified , could cause problems for global european companies . many say these problems are paid for by the fact that companies do not act in breach of competition or receive subsidies that distort trade . however , even if the measures were considered to be effective , most trade protection measures would probably not be directed against anti-competitive commercial practices .
it 's even harder to motivate corporations to do what is right . corporations do n't have a conscience , they only have a conscience for those who lead the company , and as the recent american scandals have done too much , conscience is often replaced by profits . the legal system of america ensures that companies that produce a defect , especially dangerous products , are responsible for the consequences . businesses are much better than consumers to assess the safety of their products ; we all benefit from the fact that our legal system has provided incentives to pay attention to the safety of their products . similarly , environmental legislation obliges businesses to be subject to toxic waste , and many countries , including us , have established the principle of " polluters " to pay for the damage they have caused .
we do n't have to look for a long way to go for such a mission . the case of a massive scale fight against climate change was in europe , even in china . why did we have such a small discussion in the middle of the world ? is it because those who oppose these discussions reject the climate change science ? or do they deny science because they accept it as legitimization of an economic activist ?
the irish electorate is once again prepared to vote yes or no for a treaty of good . did you forget what kind of contract it was , what 's going on ? well , it 's one of those very frequent compromises that have been achieved by the heads of state and government instead of government , who seek to sneak around and over some practical problems while postponing others . the compromise reached four years ago is important , since it contains all the technical elements of the voting balances and the division of powers between the eu authorities , which must be firmly established before the union accepts the new members . enlargement is the most important issue of the european agenda , and the treaty of good will be its core .
with a proverbial advantage ( and a shame ! ) of the past , it is clear that the growth patterns that occurred over the last half-century were not understood , and rarely ( if ever ) economists predicted them . at the moment , when the tiger economies of asia began to take their breath away , for example , the laureate gunnar myrdal wrote the asian drama to determine the causes of asian poverty , and explain why poverty seemed immeasurable . at the same time , economists and policymakers have agreed to the import policy , which will then be pursued by countries that include india , india , argentina , brazil , egypt and turkey . after failing to comply with their principles , these policies are now utterly discredited . the key thing is not just that economists have gotten so much wrong , but almost no one has any right .
but wade postponed legislative elections , originally planned for the june 2006 , first for the febb2007 , and later on the presidential order for the june 2007 election . two weeks ago , there were nearly every day 's discussions about the possibility of postponed presidential elections . it seems to be presidential elections , but it 's going to be fair . a month before the election , only 64 % of the citizens who registered their voting cards were registered . on january 28 , the opposition party brutally pushed the police and three presidential candidates were arrested .
princeton , nj . harvard 's former president , larry summers , in 2005 , had been struck by an explosion when he carefully suggested that his university would explain the difficulties he had in recruiting professors in mathematics and physics . ( he did not suggest that men are more gifted in these fields than women , but that there is a reason to believe that men are more likely to be found than women , both at the top and lower end of the spectrum of skills in these fields - and , of course , only people with a higher degree of skills are among them . ) now , one of the most important scientists in our time has gotten much worse in the same field , with predictable results . in october 1962 , james watson , who had a prize for his description of the dna , was in london to support his memoir , to avoid boring people and other scientific lessons .
china 's current president xi jinping visited winter winter winter in 2015 . state visits to the opposite direction have been more uneven , and the number of people who have been in the opposite direction has been very different . the first visit to china was in 1980 , only six months after independence , and 13 years later , there were more than 13 visits to the high levels of other winter officials , which took place in the mugabe government . the kenyan presidents , on the other hand , travelled to china six times in the same period , perhaps in 2017 . winters 's leaders took most of their visits to press trade and military cooperation , and they were likely to be directly involved in private chinese companies .
geneva - the most common measurement of the refugee crisis in the world is the most common . but young refugees who are not in education can also find an irrefutable metric crisis : the time is running . of the 17.2 million people who , by virtue of the united states 's highest commissioner for refugees ( the refugee agency ) , are responsible for the protection , roughly half of whom are 18 years old , and thus a generation of young people who have already been robbed of their childhood can also be lost in the future . children aged by schools are a large part of the displaced population of the world . in late 2016 , about 11.6 million refugees were " protracted displacement " : they were away from their homes for more than five years , and they did not have " immediate prospects of return . "
but how serious are political crimes that are now committed to greenery ? in my view , they are a criminal offence , and they are a criminal offence . against them , you have to set up what former secretary of the treasury usually calls green 's " golden glove " performance to avoid and minimize the recessions during his years of feeding . the " crimes " of which the greenspan is accused are two other charges : that he should have stopped the bubble in the stock market at the end of 1990 , and that he should have stopped the housing bubble in early 2000 . here , the greenspan holds the ground , and the pleads do n't blame him .
and it 's better to know history if we want to avoid the most disgusting scenes . the truth is that the movement of bds is nothing more than a sinister caricature of the anti-totalitarian and anti-apartheid struggle . it 's a campaign that instigators have no intention of discriminating against , delegitimize , and vilify the israel , which , in their view , will never stop wearing a yellow star . for activists of good faith that could have been accepted by a duplicated expression of movement , i would say only that there were too many noble reasons for help to be put into doubt . these are the reasons for the fight against jihadist decapitators , the rescue of women and girls enslaved by boko haram , who defend the unprotected christians and arabis democrats in the middle east , and , of course , they seek peace between the israelis and the palestinians .
but it is too early to discount genetics , as science of " epigentics " - a study of mechanisms for the conversion of genes and their shutdown , and thus changing the way the cell develops without changing the genetic code - is gaining momentum . the 2012 nobel prize for the use of nobel was awarded to john gurdon and shinya yamanaka for revolutionizing scientists to understand how cells evolved by reprogramming dna and cells without changing their genetic structure . in 1962 , gurdon found that nearly every cell in the body contains a complete code of dna , which enabled him to create a tadpole by tapping an adult frog . in 2006 , over the course of four decades , yamanaka found a way to trick complex adult cells into mice and return to their immature state . before that , stem cells , which could be reprogrammed to replace lost or damaged tissue , could only be taken from embryos at an early stage , which were driven by ethical controversy .
these claims could be prioritised and regularly processed , and refugees could reach a healthy european scale and be prepared to work or study . the crisis in the mediterranean can not be managed in a separate way . the financial costs of patrolling the water and the rescue of those cracks are devastating . the loss of life is not excusable , and the fact that you have lost your life is not possible . but we do n't have to wait until the main causes of the displacement - state failures and civil war - are resolved .
according to the latest estimate of the recent economic historian maddison , china 's per capita gdp was $ 6,725 in 1990 , which was 21 % in the united states . this is roughly the same gap between us and japan in 1951 , the singapore in 1975 , taiwan and south korea in 1977 - four economies , which are also among 13 successful economies , which have been studied by the growth commission . the average annual growth rate of japan increased by 9.2 % over the next 20 years compared to 8.6 % in the area of singapore 8.3 % in taiwan and 7.6 % in southern korea . if the benefit of latecomer , which was the result of a gap in income between four and us , would allow the nies to carry out an average annual increase in the volume of gdp 7.6 % - 9.2 % for 20 years , the potential for china 's annual growth in china should be 8 % for 2008-2028 . in particular , china needs to deepen its market reforms , address various structural problems and develop its economy according to comparative advantages .
the signatories agreed to maintain biodiversity by saving species and habitats and using biological resources ( e.g. forests ) in a sustainable way . in 2002 , the signatories of the contract continued , and by 2010 they undertook to " significantly reduce the current biodiversity loss . " unfortunately , as many international agreements , the biodiversity convention remains unknown , unfulfilled and unfulfilled . this neglect is a human tragedy , and it is a matter of fact a tragedy . for a very low amount of cash - and perhaps none of them on balance - we could protect nature and protect the basis of our lives and our lives .
it is because the network is driven by almost messianic determination to prevent iran from getting the means to destroy the island , so that it can be allowed to change its position on the palestine , provided that obama is visible from the head to stop the nuclear program . in the view of the network , the solution to the palestinian problem would not remove the irish challenge , but the neutralization of this existential threat would help create a palestinian state . the network also knows that arab 's side has suffered radical zionism . as john kerry , the chairman of the senate committee on foreign affairs , he said , " this peace process is not the only way to get the only one on the island . " it is still unclear whether the world 's abhorrent dysfunctional arab and powerful non-state agents , such as hamas and hezbollah , will respond as obama expected .
as economists predicted , the most ( 66 % ) answered this question in moscow , according to which it was not fair . but there was a surprise : new york achieved virtually the same results ( 68 % thought it was unfair ) . so we decided last year to find out if the same similarity between moscow and new york is still continuing today , or whether , given the renewed authoritarianism in russia , the attitudes of markets have become more negative . we took the same form in two cities in 2015 , and we took it out of the original form . we have presented the results of the annual meeting of the american economic association with this mouth .
the northern " advanced " countries , like a dysfunctional family , consider whether or not to release the southern economies of " emerging " or not . the nose of each case is different , and the nose is different from each case . in the first version , interest rates converge , and the default risk is zero , as the commitments of the ecb have been halted by its members , since the federal reserve reserves in the us are becoming a " local currency . " and how often do we hear about sovereign reconstructions of local debt ? in the latter version of the eurozone , there is a differential credit risk , and in the end , the bank is running , removing the euro , and default : the common currency is in danger of member states " needs .
thus , republicans have a great chance of creating a conservative majority in the supreme court of judges , which may take decades , especially if they are able to regain the presidency by 2020 . most of them may erode democratic control , such as the limits of the campaign , which have been affected by the devastating blow of the 2010 population . in the case of a majority of 5-4 , the court ruled that corporations were " associations of individuals , " and that any limit on the amount of money companies could be spent on political campaigns would be breached by their first amendment of the right to free expression . the republic 's obstructionism in the senate has also threatened other levels of federal justice . during the second term of president obama 's office , the number of vacancies in our district and circuit courts was reduced to a minimum in 50 years .
the task of calderon will not be easy , and it will be difficult to carry out the task . lopez obrador and his supporters can be expected to work hard to ruin his plans . but it is unlikely that he will destroy his government , and he will not be able to . the stability underlying the post-election crisis of mexico is also evident in latin america . no matter what the potential for the shift to the left in some latin america , others , including mexico , china , and brazil , are less vulnerable to the populist rule we 've seen in the venezuela and the bolivia .
there is still time to respond - to demonstrate strong leadership and prioritise growth in short-sighted policies - but this time is limited , and time is ticking . it will be crucial to begin a new policy cycle next year . there will be a new german government , elections in the eurozone , and at the end of the year , the european commission will be a new european commission . it is here that political leaders should be able to devote their efforts to the process . no one wants the place to fail because of the disaffection of its citizens .
colombo - as china 's economy slows and growth in developed countries is becoming anemic , governments across asia are seeking to keep their economies on their way up . in sri lanka , where i 'm prime minister , we have to find a way to accelerate our already stable economic growth . one thing is clear : we ca n't expect the rest of the world to welcome our economic ambitions , as it once opened its arms to china 's rapid rise as an economic power , or - in the early decades - cheered by the growth of japanese and so-called asian tigers , including south korea . today we are asians , almost every day , witnessing fierce political attacks on tools and policies that helped to get hundreds of millions of people out of poverty . this year , it seems , in fact , free trade is a scapegoat of choice among various populists and demagogues in the world .
here 's where cooperation between sunni-shiite is coming up , and that 's why we 're here . iraq 's sunni and shia centralists have managed to form a united parliamentary platform in the last few months , leaving sectarian tensions behind . more than a hundred followers of ayad allawi , al sadr , and others joined their ranks . this anti-sectarian platform requires the central government to use iraq 's natural resources and postpone the looming referendum on the status of kirkuk . the change in government is also worth noting the importance of the government 's position .
political zeal seems to have not disappeared into rousseau and danton . so the truth must be elsewhere : the french are not hopeless for politics , they are simply waiting for their real leader . in fact , it is possible to say that the french will never believe that globalization is lacking in the state , or globalization is not . the french are still expecting more important things from their government than from an integrated europe or an endless world . yes , the french are uncorrigible lovers of social status ( not just them ) .
london - next week , governments will meet in the wartime , in the wake of climate negotiations , and they will be in anticipation and ambition that will be at a low level . but it is not necessary : a meeting of war forces offers an opportunity to galvanize measures against the most powerful climate change - billions of dollars that governments have invested on subsidies for fossil fuels . the war talks are a stage in the path of a united climate summit in the same countries in 2015 , in which governments seek to forge a deal that prevents dangerous climate change , which is defined as global warming by more than two degrees celsius . the failure would cause disastrous climate risks for the next generation , while millions of people would be trapped in poverty as a result of more frequent , intense , and lengthy drought , floods and storms . the basic number of carbon arithmetic is illustrated by the extent of the problem .
in a letter to the g-20 march in 2015 , a group of scientists , environmentalists and leaders warned that the increase in investment in megaprojects would be a risk of irreversible and catastrophic damage to the environment . " we are consuming about half of the planet 's resources each year , " the authors explained . " infrastructure decisions must be made to mitigate this situation and not exacerbate it . " similarly , the intergovernmental panel on climate change will be difficult to prevent " infrastructure development and long-term products that will close companies in the greenhouse gas emissions path , or which will be very costly for change . " and , indeed , the g-20 has introduced few criteria for " wish list " of mega-projects that each member state will present to its peak in november .
for example , the feed has promised to keep interest rates low until unemployment is 6.5 % - a move that may have reduced long-term borrowing costs . mark carney also announced in his first policy act as governor of the british bank that he would provide guidance for short-term interest rates . although the effect of these inter-rate guidelines on the economy can not be determined without additional data , there are many arguments in favour of it . perhaps the most recent example of a central bank , which effectively used the forward leadership , was the euro 's central bank president , mario draghi , july 2012 , announcing that the ecb would " do what it takes " to ensure the euro 's survival . this pledge has stabilized the cost of borrowing and significantly reduced the interest rate for eurozone countries .
indeed , the opposite solution is likely - efforts to strengthen sanctions are still more . but as we have adopted a " bomb and talk " approach to serbs during the war with bosnian , america must be willing to " punish and talk " when it comes to ireland , and thus create a greater space for diplomatic strategies . first , we should consider establishing diplomatic relations with iran and the introduction of diplomats . it would not be easy , and it would be well enough to withstand the irania 's resistance . but the irish have diplomatic relations with other members of their main interlocutor in the negotiations on their nuclear program , the sanctions-minded group p-5 + 1 ( china , france , germany , russia , and us ) , and the restoration of diplomatic ties would shorten the line of communication and close the 44-day chapter of 1979-1981 .
but anyone who watches the pl might be tempted to conclude that the " instant " form of the game is , in fact , the american game deliberately rediscovered by the indians . other countries have followed the suit , and tournaments have modeled on the pl that have spread throughout the cricketing world . the pl was more than a sports league for keen observers , which meant nothing more than the emergence of a new india . in the ipl ' glitz , the glamour and the excess of the antidote to the hidebound mentality of the stationists who once produced economic stagnation in india . this was a business that opened up new ideas about businesses and fired young people to emulate the business 's energy that owners , promoters , players and fans showed .
this superficiality is based on the fact that , although communism is a " modern " concept , modernity in romance is only deeply entrenched . in the close proximity of the 20th century , romania ( such as bulgaria , russia , ukraine and other highly soviet societies ) is more reminiscent of a " neo-feudal " state than a modern society . here , it is a state where groups , classes , even individuals struggle for the rights conferred on them , not by talent and work , but by the group 's status . state banks , for example , approved by the state 's public society ( for example , trade unions ) , large state businesses , are now behaving in romance only slightly differently than in the feudal guilds of the middle europe . for example , the state may be exempt from paying taxes or to have their jobs and work uncontested by the law .
on the contrary , diplomatic means can bring about the release of the soldier of the island and stop the shooting of qassam rockets from gaz to the island - a daily incident that has called into question the credibility of the new island government under the prime minister of ehud olmert . but the basic problem is that , until now , in all historical times , palestinians have refused to accept a compromise , and thus have failed to reach the state building . in 1947 , they rejected the " un division " plan , which required two states in british palestine . in 1993 , the palestinian authority , established under the command of yasir arafat , became another militarized authoritarian regime , much like syria and egypt , and did not mitigate the suffering of the refugees from the palestinian tribe . it was a failure that brought the hamas to power , and that was the failure of the power .
indonesia may look like a " euro " in its obama craze , but it is , in principle , an anomaly that can easily be explained by obama 's short indonesian upbringing . otherwise , most of the asian elites are awaiting an increase in the possibility of an obama victory with a certain confusion and apprehension . for example , japanese elites prefer continuity over the change , for example . in their view , the united states " hard power is more important than its soft power , and the view of america 's " tied to leadership " is largely unchanged . for them , we are , above all , a strategic counterweight needed to balance china .
canberra - last year , north korea 's kim jong-un and us president donald trump threw insults to the nursery - " the rocket man is on a suicide mission , " said a group of kiosks , " mentally deranged us , " kim retorted - while threatening to send east asia to the post-atomic wasteland . now , in stunning and dramatic development , they will meet with each other . kim is likely to be willing to denounce and want to talk directly to the trump , who has agreed . but optimism about this change in events must be tempered by cautious realism . north korea is a nuclear problem , and it 's a hell of a problem .
this policy is the basis for the new partnership for africa 's development , which is an organization designed to promote decent and proportionate economic and political development standards throughout the continent . despite the domestic problems and loss of global visibility associated with the mandate 's retirement , south africa is still regarded as a new force comparable to the status and ambition of brazil , india and nigeria . these powers seek an effective and constructive role , and , where appropriate , the global role . they tend to have a proactive and assertive foreign policy , and they seek to gain more than a medium power and limited influence on the style of the niche-style cancer , sweden or saudi arabia . south africa is seeking a more significant and wider role , reinforced by its obvious position as a regional heritage .
he wants to join the european union and bring the place to three borders , even though we want to join one day . turkey never missed the opportunity to act as a regional broker . immediately after the soviet union collapsed , turkey proposed a black sea economic cooperation . this year , when the us tried to mediate peace in the middle east , the turkey took the mediator 's position in the israeli-palestine conflict , and the conflict between syria and the island . now , as soon as russia 's crisis began , the turkey leaders have moved forward again to take part in the cathedral .
indeed , there is a growing concern in the area that foreign troops will begin to reignite civil war , and the taliban will eventually return to power . that 's why " the early delivery of troops " became the main target of western politicians who were involved in the area . the west must be out before the blood is really starting to run out of the line . i 'm afraid we have n't seen the last of al kaida or taliban . as a neighbouring country , india would have had a disturbing impact if they had returned to power in afghanistan , as it would have been , if the sectarian had intensified , and the shia became the target of an urgent , uncompromising taliban .
and governments must respond to banks " threats by declaring their willingness to declare bankruptcy banks in accordance with their own terms . the market economy must be based on the principle of profit and loss , but it is not necessary to take into account the economic principle of profit and loss . the economy , which does not fail , nor does the rule of law apply equally to all , is not a market economy . the law applicable to all other companies should also be applied to banks . moreover , governments should guarantee non-financial institutions " loans , as well as the current , fixed-term and savings savings of private customers , by changing insolvency law .
but the massive flow of capital is from the emerging market to emerging markets , thanks to large banks , which are implicitly supported by the state in both of us and the euro area . from the perspective of international investors , banks that are too big to fail are the perfect places to park their reserves - if the sovereign is still in a state of solvent . but what do these banks do with the money , and i 'm sure they 'll be able to help . when a similar issue was issued in the 1970 " s - the so-called " recycling of oil surpluses " - banks in western financial centers have extended loans to latin america , communist countries , and communist romania . this was not a good idea , as it led to a massive debt crisis in 1982 .
when they leave , they get sick , they get in despair , and they die . but the transition to a disease is more than a health crisis ; it means a deeper malaise . so let 's not forget that these diseases are infectious , and they can easily spread , or that the lucky ones bear a moral responsibility for the welfare of the poor and sick , and only consider the economic consequences of the transition . the world bank is calling for help " the biggest threat to african development . " companies in south africa stagger from the loss of so many workers to help .
but while erdoan would have made a strategic mistake in entering the orbit of putin , many leaders had already made strategic mistakes . that 's why turkey and eu have problems with the problem for months , so it 's critical . erdo.europa.eu . the crackdown after the coup is far from the only source of tension between turkey and west , especially in the area of the neighborhood . turkey insists that travel for turkish citizens , who will be visited in january , promised by the governments of instead of visitors , should be delivered this year . but the turkey , which has so far failed to meet the agreed conditions , including the overhaul of its anti-terrorism legislation , which may not have happened - the result has become even more likely to be done by the coup .
as long as the palestinians are oppressed and denied their own state , there will be a conflict . however , over the last 13 years , the network has enthusiastically supported the expansion of jewish settlements in occupied west bank and eastern europe . as he knows , the settlement is a physical roadblock standing in the way of a contiguous independent palestinian state . moreover , during the recent election campaign , the network promised that if he re-elected , he would prevent the establishment of a palestinian state in the west bank by " controlling the entire area . " we should take him to the word , but we have to take him to the heart .
it did not prevent the supply of money from contracting in the first phase of a large crisis . without responsibility as an emergency lender , the banking system collapsed . when financial stability was suspended in 1933 , the failure of the reserve banks to cooperate prevented effective action . given the incompetence , it is not surprising that the subsequent reforms have reached a high level . but these reforms have taken place in the opposite direction than the proposed changes : the restrictions on the discretion of policymakers , the greater power of the board , and the larger role of the new york city , all of which allow the federal reserve system to respond faster and more in crisis .
the magazine on wall street recently wrote an article about the front-page article that monetary-policy " doves , " who predicted low inflation in the united states , achieved better results in the " hawks , " claiming that the monthly purchases of long-term securities or so-called quantitative easing would trigger a faster increase in prices . the report was correct , but misleading , because it did n't mention why we have so little inflation today . are you sure the pigeons were right , or are you just lucky , huh ? the federal reserve has pumped out millions of dollars , but there have never been so many reserves that there is no such small cash growth . the hawks , the pigeons ( and the others ) did n't expect it .
by reducing the number of unintended pregnancies , family planning is also reducing the number of deaths due to dangerous abortions . this is n't just for mothers , but for mothers , it 's not good . reducing the risk of pregnancy , preventing unwanted pregnancies and the formation of births has been shown to reduce the number of newborns and the number of deaths of children . the guerrilla institute estimates that the full meeting of women 's need for contraception would prevent 600,000 deaths per year and 500,000 deaths per year . in addition , reducing fertility rates , which are very high in many lms , would help reduce the pressure on health care systems in these countries by reducing the cost of maternal and newborn care and immunization .
the saudis also revel in the fury of criticism of their wahhabi island , which is widely blamed for incubating extremism and inspiring terrorism . meanwhile , the human rights record of saudi arabia - including the denial of basic rights to women - is constantly under control . in this context , the kingdom is fighting for its enemies , and it is a great deal of power . the king of salman bin abdulaziz al saud is a sovereign ruler of the country , but his son , prince mohammad bin salman , is now wielding a great deal of power . as a defense minister , mohammad continued to support the anti-assad rebels in syria , in concert with the turkey , while launching a war on pro-iranian tribesmen in yemen ( at a huge humanitarian cost ) .
the answer to the first question is yes , and no , yes , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , we have not eliminated the taliban from afghanistan , and we have completely ruled out the possibility that the country will be able to become a refuge for terrorists . the ongoing peace talks with the taliban and the impending reduction in the presence of our military in the country are clear . the american public is tired of war , and president donald trump wants to end the longest international conflict in history before the presidential election in 2020 . at the same time , we have achieved many of the main objectives of the project .
emerging-market officials will receive accreditation by demonstrating that they are able to practically use their knowledge . the aim of the ebrd is to support the education of a critical number of experts from ten countries in the region , and we believe that the certificate could be respected as well as the qualifications of a hired financial analyst or a member of the project 's management institution . five months ago , we held a conference on " ppp days " with support for other multilateral institutions , g-20 and united nations . we have a lot of experts - about 300 from 30 countries in public and private sectors - who are trying to answer a simple question : " what would it be like to invest in emerging markets in private infrastructure ? " one useful tool is " infrascope , " a comparison index created by an economist intelligence unit , assessing the capacity of emerging-market countries across the asian pacific region , latin america , africa , east europe , and former soviet republics in the area of independent states to deliver sustainable ppps .
the efforts of our special envoy george mitchell have shown clearly that the current coalition of government in israel can not achieve the minimum necessary peace . the obama administration has maintained its reputation for the adoption of israelis and the palestinians , so that at least security and border conditions are agreed . the results are mixed , at best , and they do n't have to be mixed . the palestinians have complied with all the israeli and international security requirements , while the binyamin network network is a government of israeli , which provides a two-state solution , and has not yet been able to escape where the island 's borders will be . meanwhile , the island government wants to continue building settlements in occupied areas , in total , in breach of international law , and in the context of the " plan " sponsored by quartet ( we , un , european , and russia ) .
the disease is then established , as more and more risky investors , especially short-term investors from developing countries , are beginning to withdraw funds from other countries to cover the losses incurred in economies where the crisis began . with that , the crisis is spreading across the border , affecting the entire region , or even a group of emerging economies . that 's what happened in latin america in the 1980s when mexico 's moratorium on debt management in august 1982 triggered a debt crisis throughout the register . the same thing happened in east asia in the 1990 " s : the crisis began in 1997 , with a collapse of the baht , and quickly spread to other east asian countries . in august 1998 , it became a crisis based on emerging economies , after russia imposed a moratorium on commercial banks to foreign creditors .
as a result , major economists , including senior staff in international monetary funds , have become increasingly critical in recent years , claiming that economic growth has not contributed to it . but unsubstantiated research clearly shows that , if the aid is excluded from political reasons , the evidence will show a strong positive relationship . unfortunately , despite recent efforts to improve the effectiveness of the aid , progress has been modest , at best , since the average financing of projects has fallen by more than two thirds . debt is another part of the dilemma in the development of the market and is a problem for the development of the market . over the past decade , the joint bank of the world bank has largely indebted to poor countries " initiatives , and its expansion , the initiative to mitigate multilateral debt relief , has made significant progress in sustainability of debt .
denver - for many foreign viewers , the main election of the united states for the presidential election in 2012 - which , alas , will continue to rage in the summer - must be a frightening demonstration of what americans and their leaders do not know about foreign policy . the debate after the debate shows that no one wants to challenge president barack obama is particularly interested in the details of american relations around the world , not to mention the crisis that is the end of the international landscape , especially those who do n't care about us . indeed , ignorance seems to be a source of strength for candidates who are still in the race . when a huntsman , an early tenderer , showed a real intellectual heft by using several useful points to deal with china , and a brief display of mandarin 's mastery , he answered with derision . even if he knew the chinese perspective , he did n't seem to be eligible for a huntsman who had soon completed his candidacy .
i helped to set up a first initiative for safe schools , followed by bob haram 's kidnapping of 276 schoolgirls in chibok , nigeria , the last afril . the fund has so far mobilized 30 million businesses , nigerian government and international donors , and has been established in the united states for donors . the nigeria initiative focuses on the intervention of schools and communities , and special measures are taken to the most vulnerable and most vulnerable children . the program includes building better school fortifications , linking schools to mobile telecommunications , and creating a community security group - a group of teachers , parents , police , police , police , and young people - to promote safe places for education . the first schools have now received funding , and the first group of girls at risk of the worst danger has been relocated to government schools in safer areas in the country .
luxembourg - as world leaders gather in the madrid for a conference on climate change in the united states ( cop25 ) , they must focus more on the future objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions . they must also address the danger to people and their livelihoods , which already cause climate change . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur .
this favourable performance led private forecasters and government officials to predict a strong increase in 2011 , with higher production , employment , and income , which led to further increases in consumer spending and self-sustaining recovery . in order to avoid this favourable outlook , two percentage points of payroll tax were cut for a year . unfortunately , there was no expected recovery of consumer spending in the future , which would be a problem . the increase in food and energy prices exceeded the profits of nominal wages , which caused real weekly income to fall in the mouth of the mouth , while the decline in household prices reduced the wealth of most households . as a result , real personal consumer spending increased by about 1 % per year in the mouth of the mouth , which fell from 4 % of the previous quarter .
instead , we have to continue with the usual microeconomic measures to prepare people for algorithmic employment - that is , using large data to meet people who need to remain consumers . we have been told that future participants in the labor market should be equipped with targeted education and portable social security facilities to help them jump from one automated workplace to another . in the case of education , employers and universities are invited to work together to create talent " pipelines . " for example , it highlights the " animation and development programmes of miami dade college " programmes , which work with businesses such as studios of pixar animation and google . " toyota " has also built its own advanced production programme to provide students seeking a career in society . "
after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . last year 's united nations reported progress in achieving the benefits of the sdgs , which showed that the number of people facing hunger is growing , as well as in the number of malaria cases . moreover , the climate change results are much faster than expected .
the demand will invest more than 3.3 billion in 2020 , which will contribute to economic growth . the basque country has set up a local agenda 21 to support the creation of local sustainability plans throughout the region . the programme has adopted almost all basic municipalities , which include more than 25,000 projects in mobility , waste management and economic development . these local plans are now being developed in the region in the area of sustainable development , and knowledge is shared between municipalities that set the basis for further progress . meanwhile , the most supportive regulatory framework for renewable energy investments has been developed in the south of australia , which will allow for an increase in the share of renewable energy from virtually zero in 2003 to 40 % of today .
in the 1930 " s , countries that increased their rates and tightened their quotas were the most important countries who had the least chance to manage their exchange rates - namely countries that remained at the level of gold . in 1931 , after britain and about two dozen other countries , the gold convertibility was suspended , and their currencies were depreciated , the countries that were bound by the gold standard were found in the flationary vice . in a desperate effort to do something - anything - to defend their economy , they turned to protectionism , imposed an obligation to " exchange-rate dumping , " and import quotas to offset the loss of competitiveness caused by their increasingly overvalued currencies . but trade restrictions were not a good replacement for domestic reflationary measures , as they did not prevent a decline in output and price . they did n't do anything to stabilize rickety banking systems , but they did n't do anything .
since its inception in oslo nearly two decades ago , the process of israeli-palestinian peace has been replaced by dysfunctional political systems on both sides . the hostage of a coalition and settlement movement of fanatics from the free spear , the israeli prime minister of binyamin netanyahu , is seriously compromised . his palestinian counterparts are not in a better position than the one they are . today , the clique surrounding the palestinian president , mahmoud abbas , is showing a bitter deception that has begun with a peace process that has been created by the oslo agreement , which has been designed for palestinians . moreover , the palestinian authority did not represent most palestinians , nor did it rule democratic means .
this contributed to a growing sense of hopelessness - especially among men - which manifested itself in increasing non-participation in workers , increasing health problems , drug abuse , increased suicide rates , and anti-government sentiment . countries that experience high and increase economic inequality often face political instability and political weakness . as policymaking is becoming unstable , it loses credibility and is being strangled by a gridlock , growth is suffering , and the chances of achieving a prosperous form of inclusiveness are declining . the result is a vicious circle in which government authorities find it increasingly difficult to do what is needed . but government intervention is crucial to addressing the problems of workers from developing countries today , which can not be addressed by the markets themselves .
the tribe may be a club , a clan , or a nation , but it is not a family . before the second world war , football clubs often had ethnic or religious components : tottenham 's spur in london was " jewish , " while arsenal was " irish . " the signs remain : ajax amsterdam is still being deterred by provincial adversaries as a " ew club . " and the glasgow clubs , celtic and rangers are still divided by religious affiliation , celtic as catholic and rangers protestant . but it is not necessary to have a common race or religion in the world .
it is also about spending more inevitably , but it is also about spending more frequently . in a new report , which will be launched at the spring meetings of the international bank , except for children who have demonstrated a great deal of differences between health risks , which are heavily directed at the poorest children and public spending , they are often confused by better households . this is happening in the face of the central government 's pledge when they sign up to the bottom of the line : that these countries , the furthest from the target , would benefit from the fastest possible progress . in the language of the agenda , " no one should be left behind . " the world bank could contribute to improving the accountability of this commitment by using the un and national authorities to monitor and report the pace in which the key indicators of mortality and education are reduced .
two examples are enough to illustrate the impact : the rice price has tripled , and electricity consumption has fallen by two-thirds of the previous twenty years . my memories of north korea are now nearly a decade old . the capital of pyongyang was dark and deserted , illuminated by the column , which led us from the official residence to the opera , only to be returned to the darkness behind us . when he entered the opera , kim jong-il was greeted with the same zeal that he had now grieve for his death . i took the trip to april 2002 , which was a little more optimistic .
there are other objectives of gender equality , but there are other objectives of gender . the best way to limit violence against women , to get rid of poverty , to be fully and equal to society is to break the cycle of early marriage and childbirth . it is not easy to achieve such a big change , but if girls can stay longer at school and have a decent job opportunities for them after graduating , they will be able to take and carry the children . for example , in rural india , workers for well-paid jobs were randomly selected villages for three years . women 's employment increased , and women 15-21 years were less likely to be married or born in this period .
the angry response of the north was delivered by the vice minister kim kim kye-gwan : " we do not conceal the sense of resistance to him . " the north did not care about dialogue aimed at forced " unilateral nuclear abandonment . " " the world knows very well that our country is neither libya nor iraq , nor has it met a miserable fate . " although mr braton had been distracted from bolton 's remarks , the vice-president had warned three weeks later that if north korea had not agreed , he would have met libya 's fate . son hugo , the vice minister of foreign affairs , replied by threatening " nuclear demonstrations " if washington was to be " unlawful and offensive . "
after nearly 15 years of unprecedented growth , interrupted only by a short slowdown in 2000-2001 , the united states accumulated a large number of foreign commitments , corresponding to 25 % of the total volume of the gross domestic product . with the current deficit of accounts that exceed 5 % of the gross domestic debt , foreign debt is rising rapidly . but no country can accumulate debt forever , and what will not last will be over before or later . in early 1985 , when the current deficit reached $ 120 billion . the result was suddenly reduced by a dollar value that had fallen by 50 % , compared to the deutschemarke .
princeton - the united states has moved from the election to the presidential election to the lowest political scandal in one week . for many americans , the election has shown what is best for the country , and only a sad familiar process of how to defeat heroes from pedestals . for many non-americans , the election brought a welcome and soothing victory in barack obama , while the resignation of david petraeus as a cia director was unnecessary and self-inflicted . in fact , the election and resignation of petraeus are a part of a larger part : america that lives up to its promises . the election reminded many americans that we are a country that is determined to advance and move forward to the ideal vision .
the first victim would be the only small extent to which international policy coordination would remain . the second would be a world monetary system , and the second would be a world of international monetary . one of the main reasons for creating an international monetary fund was to monitor developments in exchange rates with an explicit aim of preventing pro-neighbour policies . that 's why the swiss move is going to be a surprise to me . it is true that the franc has valued eight % since the crisis started in august 2007 .
the call from björn höcke , the head of the afd in thuringia , for " 180 degrees " from the post-world war tradition , according to which the nazi era is committed , and the afd deputy leader alexgauland , as he mentions the " disposing of " german integration minister of turkish origin , " in anatolia , " repelled voters . similarly , the death of linda 's call for abolish nato , along with its cozying to russia , has caused political toxic effects in most west germany . the second , commonly mentioned cause of germany 's resilience to populism , is an economic force . unemployment rates in the country are low , and the percentage of gdp has increased by almost 10 % since 2013 . it is clear to this that the functional social system is not enough , and it is clear why the anger that has driven the voter revolts in a different place is not sufficiently traction in germany .
the huge fines were imposed on independent publications , on the broadcasters and on the bloggers . china and turkey - both olympic-level jailers of journalists - have suppressed their repression in recent years . last month , russian president vincent putin signed a new law that allows the criminal law to punish individuals and the internet for the spread of so-called false news and information that " disrespect the state . " we , president donald trump , are trying to get in the same direction . his constant branding of journalists as " liars " and " enemies of people " echoes the label of the press 's favourite label : the lügenpresse ( a lying press ) .
without the benefits of trade , many rural africa are struggling to live at the level of life . the bush might think america is doing a lot to help overcome these problems . the commission for africa and the millennium project , which blair had received , found that africa needs about $ 50 billion in support by 2010 . the fair share of america 's total amount is about $ 15 billion a year . but the official aid for africa is only $ 3 billion a year , and most of this is about wages for american consultants , not investments in africa 's needs .
north korea is now the ninth state of nuclear weapons , and it is joined by five permanent members of the un security council , israel , india and pakistan . the danger is that we can be fast approaching the point of the strike . as the world responds to north korea , it is likely that the calculations of other potential nuclear power will affect the calculation of the potential . keeping peace in a world where there are literally dozens of fingers on nuclear launches is much more difficult - and the consequences of a much more destructive failure . the first reaction to the nuclear test in north korea was equally critical , culminating ( until now ) in the security council resolution 1718 , which condemned the test , demands that north korea fully cooperate with the international nuclear power agency and to impose a range of military , political , and economic sanctions .
industrialist wilbur ross , a trade secret organization , has expressed his desire to replace america 's " stupid " trade agreement . the head of the national council of commerce - a new white house policy shop , which will be arranged in accordance with the national security and national economic advice . navarro is one of the most extreme chinese hawks in america . the names of his two recent books - death by china ( 2011 ) and crouching tiger : what china 's militarism means for the world ( 2015 ) - are talking about his biases at the table . the decline and navarro were also co-authors of the paper on the website of the trump campaign , which seemed to be credibility .
but , as politicians constantly threatened to end the qe , the markets concluded that the ecb did not commit to sustained stimulus . thus , the euro rate of exchange rates was barely moved ; indeed , the euro was valued against a basket of large currencies . inflation in the eurozone has become " deanchored " from decisions of monetary-policy . the ecb then declared victory and prematurely withdrew the qe just as the eurozone economy slowed . the clash of interests between eurozone member states is a simple matter of time .
experience suggests that importing laws and legal standards is rarely very good for them . for centuries , the western law has been brought to the colonial rulers of the colony . even after the euro 's empire was withdrawn , the laws were still exported to support the development of post-colonial countries . however , in many cases , the imported legislation was not taken into account , selectively enforced , or only in the form , not in the form . american anti-trust law , for example , when he was transplanted into japan after world war ii , he led only six criminal prosecutions in 30 years .
but other companies have been accused of being more interested in the development of samples and data from " biobank " before genetic testing . as the charity reynoy of genetics and society writes , " just as the traditional business model of the newspaper is to get revenue from readers , but not from advertisers , personal genomics see the potential profit not from consumers , but from the compiled databases - probably from the way they sell them . " drug companies and other businesses can easily buy biobanks on which they can test their products for different responses according to genetic makeup . this new development called pharmacogenetics is aimed at delivering better calibrated doses and more effective treatments . it 's not going to be bad , but it seems strange that customers are paying the company for the right to donate their dna to the database .
europe 's banks , which hold greek government debt , could still pretend to be worth it . and the central bank of europe would have fewer excuses to refuse to accept the bonds as collateral . the question is whether the coupons - possibly associated with the expansion of the maturity - would be enough to stabilize the grey economy and restore growth . even with interest rates at german level , he would have to carry out a primary surplus of at least 2 % of the gdp - still large , and far from today 's deficit . and , with the unchanged face value of debt , psychological pressure on expectations and investments could persist .
excessive fiscal expansion and monetary expansion have caused these economies to be unstable , and the economy has been exposed to the market . the current-account deficit has increased , and it has led to frequent foreign-exchange crises . the combination of social polarization , inadequate institutions and weak economic foundations has made it difficult for the government to escape from the trap of short-term development and to set up a groundwork for long-term development . in this context , " neoliberal " reforms - such as rapid opening of economic and liberalization of financial resources supported by international monetary funds - have caused economies to be more vulnerable to external shocks . venezuela is a case in the case of a case where the application is lodged .
films created for the satisfaction of consumers show cultural norms of limitations , transgression and other values . porn is so much tuned to consumers that it can almost immediately change the company . interestingly , many of the purveyors of pornography initially thought that a better video would be more desirable for their product . however , it seems that the high production values have been less popular in the past . so they adopted a " casual " production style , similar to worn and torn jeans .
he 's never wanted to lead the country , but he 's never wanted to lead the country . former italian prime minister silk berlusconi and former prime minister thaksin shinawatra - and he still does . neither clown nor magnate are suitable for being a democratic leader . the question is , in fact , worse , and worse , the question is still in the world . clowns have always played a part in politics , and i do n't know what to do .
eventually , cities and cities that drive the bulk of the new wealth will cause counter-movement . if they choose to eliminate those who earn less , they will sacrifice the openness that they have made them attractive . so if they want to survive and prosper in today 's egalitarian climate , they have to invent bold solutions . during the last period of urbanism , rich merchants built cheap housing in the early 16th century , which was then allocated to the poor . one of these projects , the complex of fuggerei in augsburg , germany , is still providing low-rent social housing .
george clémenceau , jean jaurès and raymond poincaré , who had been ruled out of the republic since the beginning of the twentieth century , had not reached half of the electorate . charles de gaulle did not have any qualms about the fact that he would not understand them . in the 1950s , they did not hesitate to tell the communists that they did not want their votes to support their government . france must now recall these great moments of republican tradition and consider them a model for today 's leaders . what will be needed to keep the territory that the republic almost lost to the fn is political courage , which is currently in short order .
and we know that these landings have created a unique link between our continents . this bond remains essential for maintaining values and security , and we are still in the world . but after the cold war , many thought that its institutional embodiment - the north atlantic organization - would be lost . it did n't happen because our bond is not based on ordinary threats , but on common ideals . he could not disappear any more than our desire for freedom could have waned .
china itself does not provide any favors by continuing the time-war in the maoist 1960 " s when it comes to the debate . the chinese are so smart in a lot of areas , and they do n't know what to do . they invented a formula for " one country , " two systems " for hong kong . is it beyond the political system 's ability to create a formula for tibet , which recognizes its cultural and religious independence in chinese state ? i hope this problem does not derail chinese efforts to use olympics as an opportunity to show the world that their country has become one of the world 's leaders .
sarajevo - ever since 2016 , the double disasters - the united kingdom 's reference referendum and the election of president donald trump - has been widely feared by the " global wave " of populism and the hand-wringing of the so-called direct democracy . in uk , voters were asked to answer a simple or simple question ; in the united states , the republicans " party primary parties in 2016 were handed over to irresponsible voters and radical activists . since then , there have been calls to reempower the " guard of the gates , " which is a polite way to say that unwashed masses should be kept away from political decisions . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries .
berkeley - solving the problem is not enough to know what to do . in fact , you have to carry out the solution - and you 're willing to change course if it turns out you do n't know as much as you think . that 's a message from two recent books that together tell you everything about the financial crisis in 2008 : what caused it to do , what can be done to prevent it from being repeated , and why it is still necessary . the first book is a shift and shock , a conservative british journalist martin wolf , who will begin to catalog the main changes that have set the stage for today 's economic disaster . his prime minister is a huge rise in wealth in the world 's richest 0.1 % , and 0.01 % , and the resulting pressure on people , governments and businesses is increasingly unsustainable .
this benefits , but it also carries serious risks - it is beginning to lose journalistic standards of excellence , as is customary in established media organizations . without traditional media gatekeepers , political discourse is no longer based on a common set of facts . the second feature of the digital information age - a direct byproduct of democratization - is information socialization . instead of getting our information directly from the institutional administrators , who , despite the 10-misguided implementation , have been committed to meeting editorial standards today , through mutual sharing . these mutual networks may increase content by factors such as clicks or engagement between friends , not accuracy or relevance .
moreover , the social fragmentation of television shows that the television show has contributed to a large fragmentation of the market . the time spent in society alone is now before the screen . robert putnam , the leading scientist of america 's declining sense of society , found that television viewing is a central explanation for the decline in " social capital , " the trust that binds the community . americans simply trust each other a little less than they have been before for generations . of course , there are many other factors in the field of work , but it is not necessary to underestimate the social atomization driven by television .
this dangerous and irresponsible act is another key sign of china 's rise as a global power is lacking , and it is not guaranteed that , once a strong country is strong , it will be peaceful . it contradicts the repeated assurances that china 's rise will only bring peace and peace to the international community . the spirit of a cold war is hidden behind china 's ambitions , and it is still permeating the inner circle of military command , whose opponent is undoubtedly united . with the collapse of the soviet communist regime , we continue to have a dominant role in the area of exploration of peace and science . but since 1980 , we have been ambivalent about the ultimate use of military and civilian forces in space .
illegality and wrongdoing were carefully masked as an indisputable natural law , " the survival of the fittest . " each time a new strong scientific formulation appears , it must be used for abusive use . today , it 's a process of molecular genetics , and it 's a process of molecular genetics . mild , obesity , heart disease , intelligence , homosexuality or criminal behaviour : the famous scientists claim that our fate is written on the dna molecule and that the people of science are joined by the exulatory choir , claiming that human beings are nothing more than programmed beings .
around the picturesque squares , all the cobbles and ornamental façade were silent , and they were silent about the blood that accompanied the rise and fall of empires . but iviv is also where you can find hope for europe 's promise . iviv is a highly anti-russian city , and he 's also a member of the eurozone ; but every summer , every summer , he 's hosting a jazz festival of alpha , sponsored by russian banks . russia and the ukraine are still in war , politicians , locals , and ukrainian diaspora . beyond the vital cultural life and geographical location , the region 's region is strategically important to the west .
palo alto - it is still too early to assess the full economic impact of president barack obama 's implementation and proposed policies , but the preliminary interpretation shows that short-term benefits are high in the long term . the government is using a crisis atmosphere to create a huge program that would restore the american economy , autos , financial services , health care , energy , and revenue distribution . he got rid of the details of $ 787 billion fiscal stimulus to congress , and it was no surprise that the old barons of the house had stuffed it into pork and social engineering . in a few months , only 4 % of the funds were spent , and the federal government is seeking to rewrite the california , for example , to cut the salary for some workers in uniform , or lose $ 7 billion in stimulus funds . ( the emerging characteristic of the administration is the intervention of contractual relations in the enforcement of trade requirements . )
as europe knows , the walls in the mediterranean do not build . moreover , it is worrying that the trump government is hardly talking about compliance with the liberal international order after the war . instead , it considers the world a zero-sum strategic competition in which we should only look at ourselves . unfortunately , in a world where there are no common institutions to limit the number of states in the escalating conflict , the risk of a global war is growing significantly . of course , we say it is increasing its commitment to the security of europe .
the old model has served both sides for three decades , and it has been a good thing for them . china 's growth has driven labor exports to more competitive outcomes by transferring technology and knowledge from both of us and other western countries . this , together with massive chinese and private investments ( which are allowed by large and recently excessive savings ) , underpinned the rising income of millions of chinese citizens . meanwhile , we have benefited from a significant reduction in the relative price of manufactured goods in the marketable part of the economy . as a result , employment has shifted to higher value-added activities , which also support higher incomes in america .
a fundamental change in strategic priorities under president donald 's wishes to revisit the european parliament 's long-term assumptions about their collective defense . this is n't the first time nato seemed to be on his last leg . many of them reached the same conclusion before 2014 , when the alliance did not have much to focus on before the mission . when russia annexed crimea and brought war to the east region , it breathed a new life into nato . then came the trump , whose government took the rug from under the feet of the euro , abandoned the american leadership in the international system of decisions based on rules , and pursued nationalist , protectionist and foreign policy .
first , the stimulus policy , which is currently pushing for growth over 2 % , is not sustainable . by 2020 , stimulus will be launched , and a slight fiscal boost will lead to a slight increase in growth from 3 % to 2 % . second , as stimulus has been timed badly , the economy is now overheating , and inflation is rising above the target . thus , the federal reserve will continue to increase the federal funds from 2 % to 3.5 % by 2020 , and it will likely increase short-term and long-term interest rates , as well as dollar dollar . inflation is also increasing in other key economies , and oil prices are increasing .
in fact , we and british soldiers can only blame themselves for what they are . the increased sand drift was one of the effects recorded during the first gulf war . this is because the desert is normally covered by crust , which is called " desert skin , " which consists of sand and clay particles that have been burned together or burned by the sun . sometimes the crust is strong enough to carry a person , and sometimes it 's not like a hard ice crust that will change in the snow in the cold climate . the sand particles are released under the crust , and the particles are released from the surface .
other women , like his own self-proclaimed mistress , judith campbell , reportedly had a sexual relationship with the mafia . the sense of entitlement , which has suffered such a male unease , has been eroded since then - a process that has been played on television as much as in american culture . popular series such as " good wife " is suffering from pain and suffering from political wives who are expected to hold a stiff upper lip and a similar ladylike expression in the face of double behavior . similarly , the series of " mad men " with its leading advertising officials , who eat women like cocktails from lunch , will cause void and destruction of male sexual rights in early 1960 . this reassessment of male sexual rights and irresponsibility in 1960 " s has also taken place in other arenas - strengthening the transformation of kennedy 's image from charming playboy to dangerous compulsive predators .
one of the main things is that financial market problems do not only lie in hedge funds , but also the biggest and least regulated players , but also in good old commercial banks , which show a peculiar ability to cause gambling problems , whether in loans to emerging markets or in the form of ltcm . banks that lent large amounts , mostly unsecured , are the same as those that have been lent to five east asian developing countries for a short period of $ 175 billion ( indonesia , malaysia , philia , thailand ) , and then suddenly turned their loans and took tens of billions of loans in 1997 and 1998 . amazingly , according to manhattan 's report , it was exposed to about $ 32 billion in loans and derivatives , roughly 2 % of the total amount of credit and credit for one hedge fund . ltcm also illustrates the truth about the financial market crisis and how to manage them . when the push came to an end , the federal reserve simply did n't let the " market forces " take its course .
the cambridge - cooperation between the public and private sectors or coordination is now being paid considerable attention . a series of centres have been created to study business and relations between the government and the government , and researchers have developed a great literature on the design , analysis and evaluation of public-private partnerships . even the world 's economic forum has been transformed into an international organisation of public and private cooperation . private coordination has , of course , been a key factor in economic development over the last 250 years . while adam smith has begun to believe that the invisible hand will take care of most of the coordination issues , economists have discovered all possible market failures , information imperfections , and incentives that have caused rules , regulations and other forms of government and social intervention .
the president 's daughter , ivanka trump , is now struggling . although it is easy to cynical ( some say the new program is merely an excuse to cut funds from existing retraining programs ) , the idea of digital platforms for improving the quality of education and training is a good one . but while the trump government has strengthened the long-term growth potential of the economy , the ledger is somewhat bleak . for starters , a wide range of studies - from the work of the late economist david landes to recent research by daron acemoglu and the university of chicago 's name as a robinson - found that institutions and political culture were the most important determinants of long-term growth . the recovery of the damage caused by the fall of institutions and political culture may take years , if so , it may be significant economic costs .
most economists now believe russia can not maintain an annual increase in gdp by more than 2 % , without further sustained oil prices . but 2 % growth ( a respectable rate of advanced economy ) would mean a significant blow to russia 's status and the prestige of the putin , and it could jeopardize domestic stability if jobs were lost in critical manufacturing . putin is confused about how to deal with the threat posed by slow growth . his main proposal was " eurasian union " - an expanded version of the current customs union between russia , belarus and kazakhstan . this would be a platform for restoring trade , transport and other contacts between former soviet countries , and thus to capture the regional markets for russian products , to guarantee russian employment , and to enforce russian political influence in the old neighborhood .
the ecb , quite sensibly , wants to see all possible horrors before the takeover - so it ca n't be blamed . we hope that this assessment will be more stringent than the previous stress tests carried out under the auspices of the european banking authorities . these tests , unlike the same in the united states , failed to restore confidence . several banks , which had passed by the flying colors , were soon forced to raise new capital . but the creation of a european banking union has not been the only significant change in the financial regulation of the euro since the crisis .
not all of this was successful , but success ( for example , germany ) is much greater than failures ( see the greenback ) . the key to ensuring the future of europe 's social security systems and thus its social model is faster . and it is difficult to understand how europe would improve the situation . it is well known that growth barriers have existed for a long time , without being removed . the reason is simple : if there was a politically easy way to grow growth , it would have been implemented .
many state-owned enterprises have privatized ten times more than the amount of assets has been obtained under the previous government of edvard shevardnadze . but the complete lack of transparency allowed russian companies and their subsidiaries to register in third countries to complete the supply of new goods . it was typical of russian holding companies that had invested in the production of gold alloys ( industrial investors ) . russia 's main instrument for foreign policy in georgia is gazprom , a gas monopoly in state power . gazprom 's aim is not only to control the gas industry in george , but also to feed russia 's gas to george and armenia .
as always , the main victims are civilians caught in the crossfire , and they are not in the hands of the enemy . the renewed battle , which will come eight months after a promising peace initiative called " goma agreement , " means more civilian deaths and a small chance of normality returning to the eastern part of the congo . but even at times , when the fight is less intense , the indirect effects of war are affected . an estimated 5.4 million people died as a result of the war and its lingering effects in the last decade . today , a quarter of a million people are running , and nearly half of them are in rebel territory , and they do n't have access to help .
henry kissinger once said : " peace can only be achieved by hegemony or by balancing power . " it could also be said about trade or even globalization itself , which is why it is not possible to act . it is no coincidence that two large eras of globalization - decades before the end of world war i and the last 75 years - have been characterized by a balance of power and hegemony . of course , trade is more important than a lack of conflict in the absence of a conflict . as well as all economic activities , it flourishes when property rights are respected , the tax is effective and purposeful , the credit letters are respected , the rates and other obstacles are eliminated .
for smes , external ships provide much-needed creative human power to create a human . for larger companies , they are the means of obtaining citizenship and innovation in society . when they are properly included in the education of students , external ships can provide a competitive advantage for the university 's essay , and on the student 's interviews , which are increasingly used by the admissions committees , which will increasingly be used by the leaders of the twenty-first century in the competition between the top experts . external ships offer transparency and accountability for educators and the lack of fear for students . our education system can no longer afford to defend itself from industry .
but a few million americans - black , white and hispanic - now live in households with a profit of less than $ 2 per day , essentially the same standard as in the world bank , which is used to define poverty at a minimum level in india or africa . finding shelter in the united states on this income is so difficult that poverty in india and africa is much worse for $ 2 per day . moreover , america 's much-praised equality of opportunity is threatened by the threat . cities and cities that have lost their factories to globalization have also lost their tax base , and it is difficult to keep schools in place - to escape the next generation . elite schools hire rich to pay their bills , and the court minorities are seeking to defend hundreds of years of discrimination , but this certainly does not diminish the opposition of white labor , whose children do not find a place in this new brave world .
once the company identifies which users have the most influence - for example , known bloggers - it can offer them better treatment , and it is hoped that it will recommend the service . the start-ups can also check the profiles of their users on the angel list of investors who are looking at them as a potential source of financing . others could use services such as intercom , so that they can familiarize themselves with the interests of their users - from their favourite music to their favourite hobbies - and offer more personal services . many online services are now offering a link to users with friends in facebook or contacts with linkedin , or to recommend activities or restaurants based on behaviour or current status . some people do n't want to be so careful , because they 're already familiar personalities who try to distract fans or moods , or simply because they do n't like the fact that they know so much about them .
french catholics now feel as if their historically privileged position is being attacked - by increasing the number of attacks and islamist-driven terrorists , and by law that are increasingly challenging their lives . for many conservative catholic catholic , same-sex marriages were a critical point , while leftist catholic warriors found themselves being pushed to the right . french politics has no analogue point in the us , with conspiracy theories , talk shows , online trolling , and false news - that has driven trump 's campaign . but fillon 's supporters also rejected multiculturalism and responded to their fears of dismissing expertise . with the fact that france is becoming less catholic , and we are becoming more diverse , their political power of " zombie " will be reduced , but as trump 's election and the political ascendance of the fillon have shown , they can not yet be written off .
for better or worse reasons , central banks manage the amount and amount of money by withdrawing or adding paper assets to private banks " stock . if central banks want to stimulate economic activity , they buy private banks , mortgages , deposits and other assets . then the banks will have more money to lend , and they 'll be able to pay for it . and vice versa , when the authorities want to cool down the economy , they do n't know what 's going on . but the more successful the libra is , the more money people will be transferred from their bank account to a wallet with libra , and less valuable central banks will be able to stabilize the economy .
with the us invasion of iraq in 2003 , the relations between the americans reached a low point . the british government felt betrayed by french diplomatic tactics in the united states , while the french president jacques chirac confirmed his distrust of the only superpower and his call for a multi-polar world . today , on the eve of the french presidential election , the opinion polls show that three-quarters of the french voters believe that france should be separated from the united states . despite the long history of the alliance , which has been linked to the american revolution , and which includes two wars in the world , the conflict has always been somewhat ambivalent , and iraq 's war has not been the first time a controversial security policy has undercut the attractiveness of americans in the war . the polls show similar responses after the 1956 crisis , the vietnam war at the end of 1960 , and the early 1970 " s , and the introduction of inter-range missiles in the euro area at the start of the 1980 " s.
they can do so in a variety of ways , such as investing in education , financing scientific and technical research and building effective infrastructure . the tax competition can not be achieved , not least because it reduces the revenue needed to carry out such investments , especially in developing countries , which , according to the 2015 international financial fund report , are losing more than $ 200 billion a year , owing to the fact that multinationals have prevented them from doing so . if countries create tax regimes that are effectively designed to steal tax revenues from others , they also have less money for education , health care , and poverty reduction programs , and measures to combat climate change . this should not be allowed , and multinationals should stop adding to the problem by threatening to leave countries if they do not reduce taxes . the basic principle of social responsibility for businesses is that firms should pay fair tax on their own .
what 's more , the rapid expansion of the fs is consistent with the bull market . index performance is largely determined by the selection of security , and the allocation of assets means only a small amount of stocks , bonds and loans . i do n't know , but those days are probably over , and they 're probably over . given the long-term valuation of the stock and bonds , it is unlikely that further sustained market advances will slow economic growth and increase the uncertainty of policy and policy . the market return is likely to be lower , and episodes of volatility are likely to be more frequent .
cambridge - economics teaches us that the amount of goods he can consume is measured according to the wellbeing of an individual . in turn , consumption options are as high as possible to provide businesses with the freedom to use new technologies , division of labor , economies of scale and mobility . consumption is a target , production is a means of achieving it , and it is a means of production . the market , not the community , is a unit and a target of analysis . no one can deny that consumers and the market economy 's market vision produce a lot of fruit .
fragmentation - meaning that the internet is over - is a real threat to the internet . some estimates have contributed to the global budget of the internet for a total of 4.2 billion dollars in 2016 . the world would be very expensive for fragmented " spillover , " but it is one of the possible future reports of global commission for internet governance , which was chaired by former prime minister carl bildt . the internet is now connected to nearly half of the world 's population , and another billion people - and about twenty billion devices - are expected to be connected in five years . the expansion of the product is not guaranteed , but it is not guaranteed by further expansion .
it sounded like a pleasant experience - perhaps a good experience for young men who would otherwise be unemployed . but it was n't an inspiration for the future , which would explain why roosevelt 's new deal could not end america 's economic malaise . by contrast , the relative strength of our economy may be reflected in recent inspires . the fracking revolution , which is widely regarded as coming from us , has contributed to reducing energy prices and eliminated the american dependence on foreign oil . much progress in communication in recent years also reflects innovation - such as smart phones and tablet technology and software - which has been our native .
and about 445 million people will need to improve access to safe water supplies - part of which will be to reduce the amount of unpaid care that women carry out in developing countries . this ambitious agenda will not be implemented effectively , without the governments " actions in the context of a joint cooperation with private and non-government organisations . it will require further investments , opportunities for women to work , and measures to help women to work more effectively . gi has identified several interventions in the world that can be easily deployed more broadly . measures to improve access to education include building more secondary schools , ensuring that girls are equipped with facilities for hygiene facilities in places where they study and create financial incentives to raise enrollment and keep girls in school .
the unhcr , as it is currently conceived , is not an independent non-partisan agency , which he claims . it is highly dependent on donors and host governments to start operations to save , and it is a concern for their interests , and it is not always necessary to carry out political support . the other major multilateral migration agency , iom , assists in the return of immigrants , asylum seekers , refugees and persons residing in their territory , or in other countries or regions that have agreed to accept them . but , like the hcr , the governance issues the plague of iom . in particular , the iom does not provide a mechanism to assess whether national governments use coercion to repatriate or relocate refugees .
after five years , the united states congress has not approved the annual budget , which is a major component of responsible economic governance , and central banks have been forced to artificially strengthen economies . they rely on almost zero interest rates and unconventional measures such as quantitative easing to stimulate growth and job creation . this approach is implicitly beneficial to rich people who have a disproportionate share of financial assets . meanwhile , companies are increasingly aggressive in trying to reduce their tax bills , including through so-called inversions , which move their headquarters to lower tax administrations . as a result , most countries face three inequalities - income , wealth , and opportunities - which , unchecked , reinforce each other and have far-reaching consequences .
and even the government 's plan to support skilled workers with no qualifications does not necessarily reduce the number of immigrants from the country . all of this , trump has been governed by the plutocrat in populist clothes - that 's , the populist . but why did his base let him go with the policies that hurt him most ? according to one of the views , social conservatives and white supporters of the blue collar in rural areas will vote on nationalist , religious sentiments and antipathy against secular elites , not for their financial interests . but how long can anyone expect to be supported by " god and guns " at the cost of bread and butter ?
the holiday was received in 2006 , and 59 % of the russians think it is special or significant ( 32 % of them do not . ) unfortunately , the only remains of the red army are only 23 . another soviet military legacy is a mandatory system of writing about the rules of the law . while all other large euro countries have abolished military writing in recent decades , russia continues to maintain a system that all physically fit men aged between 18 and 27 years must be served 12 months . exceptions are based on medical conditions and are provided to students and employees of certain organizations ( e.g. police ) .
paris - tunisia , one of 22 members of the arab league , is in a situation where there is a serious and serious crisis , but perhaps one with a favorable solution . it is the smallest northern part of the country , which includes 163,000 square kilometers - more or less than two times the size of the belgium , netherlands and luxembourg - and contains a population of 10.5 million people . it is also filled with charm and moderation in terms of climate , history and culture . it was once a pillar of cultural dynamism and influence of the roman republic and the realm . the first african area , which should have been cut , was a country of st augustine and the main source of catholic evangelism in africa .
true , any arab - virtually everyone - knows who is responsible for the khashoggi disappearance : the crown prince mohammed by the salman of the saudi arabia . but the fact that a familiar cartoonist must have hidden the perpetrator 's image is talking about the fear of independent journalists from the arab world . khashoggi 's disappearance has only deepened their fears , and the situation has worsened . arab countries have long ago earned journalists who have been on the official line , punishing those who dare to speak the truth with power . since the failed revolutionary revolution in the spring of the arab - of which the tunisia is the only success story - citizens across the region have found themselves in a strict way to choose between radical islamist regimes and military regimes .
it will be difficult to reverse financial liberalization , but the negative side effects - including greater systemic risk - require a series of reforms . first , it is necessary to provide more information and transparency in the area of complex assets and their possession . secondly , complex instruments should be traded in exchange rather than in the market for excessive consumption , and should be standardized so that liquid secondary markets can be created . third , we need to improve the supervision and regulation of financial systems , including the regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions such as hedge funds and even sovereign wealth funds . fourth , it is necessary to re-examine the role of rating agencies , and introduce more regulation and competition .
and yet it is one of many of the domestic challenges that have been faced by the region . arabs must take over their own plans and become the main force to define their future and their country . of course , they should continue to act with the outside world and strengthen their strategic relations and alliances . but they must also be less dependent on others , and they must not be dependent on them . for starters , the region 's governments must develop their own capacities in the area of national security , and to defend themselves against non-existence threats and hegemonic expansionism .
the new newspaper , which is now being described as a servaas storm , effectively demolish another famous group of neoliberal economics : the argument that the labor market " rigidities " is depressing output and employment . one of the empirical investigations , which is most commonly mentioned in this case , is a paper of timothy besley and robin 's burgess , which is used by manufacturing data in indian states for the period 1958-92 . besley and the burgess claimed that , in some countries , pro-workers " regulations were lower , they were lower , they were less productive , investment , and productivity , and even increased poverty in cities , compared to states that did not comply with these regulations . this conclusion was based on the traditional wisdom that regulation on the labour market is detrimental to the development of the industry , and that the increase in production and employment in manufacturing is to promote " flexibility in the labor market " by repeal of the legislation that protects workers . this wisdom did not only prevail in india , but also affected policies in many developing countries .
the economic prospects of britain are increasingly dependent on events beyond the coast , whether directly across the english channel or china or california . the danger of the environment is blowing up in the wind , and the wind is blowing . the growing pressure on migration is threatening to overwhelm all the pretensions of border controls . the security concerns are increasingly worrying about foreign policy and policies at the same time . a recent political cartoon showed british bombers who had taken off the mission , and one pilot told the others : " it seems like a long way to go and blow up a couple of young men from south london . "
after this election , perhaps with a great deal of support , he proposed to deepen the revolution with new laws about the organization of society and economy . these laws , which have already been approved , should be the catalyst for the new institutional arrangements in the country , which , according to the commission , are based on a direct relationship between the leaders and the people , and the progressive withdrawal of democratic institutions . meanwhile , all public power - all - now listen to vez . given this history , it is worth noting that , on the day of his victory , chávez called for coexistence , dialogue , debate and everyone else to work together for the good of venezuela . he emphasized that people had voted for vez and socialism , and that they were not the only ones who had ever been involved .
genes can be damaged by factors of the environment , such as radiation or chemicals . they can also be damaged by the metabolism of the product in the normal metabolism . our bodies have complex repair systems that maintain the integrity of genes . however , sometimes the damage is not repaired , and the damage is not repaired . if the damage occurs in key genes that regulate growth in cells , cancer may occur .
ithaca - the internet has once been called a powerful democratization force - which allows innovative start-ups to compete with established businesses , disrupt the entire industry and create new ones . but as some of the stars grew into behemoths , they turned the force on their heads . the internet has exacerbated the problem of inequality in the world , which is now largely owned by large technologies , and not democratization of the economy . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries .
" but the development world can make it much worse . " " " but it 's going to be a long way off . " in the announcement of a new joint research effort , chu described clean energy as " one of the great opportunities of our time " for our cooperation in the sinous , and said that " working together , we can achieve more than [ by itself ] . " still , i wonder if this new collaboration with bonhomie and ethnic bonhomie will be strong enough to break down not only the long history of distrustful interactions between china and china , but also the destabilizing effects of china 's sudden economic growth . although we have gained strength from the ideal of " melting pot " - and the cabinet of president barack obama is a new sign of diversity of water - americans often show xenophobic distrust of immigrants who are too close to power . in particular , the fear of divided national loyalties and " fifth pillar " was strong .
the economic weakness of greece is increasing the current deficit level , and the deficit is still growing . five years of declining taxes have reduced taxes and increased payments for transfers of goods . the imf estimates that these cyclical effects on revenue and revenue have increased the overall deficit by nearly 5 % of the amount of greek gdp . in cyclically adjusted , the overall budget of greece would show a surplus of 0.6 % of the amount of the budget this year . this also means that if a greece could escape from the current recession , its national debt would be reduced , both in terms of a share of the debt .
as an indian prime minister manmohan singh , he put it on wen 's visit , " india and china can reconstruct the order of the world . " the recent rapprochement of both countries is a huge change in enmity that has destroyed their relationship after the war in 1962 over the disputed border in himalayas . when i first visited india as a u.s. government official in the late 1970 " s , i was intrigued by the obsession of my indian hosts about getting the same status as porcelain . in 1998 , when india tested its nuclear weapons , the minister of defense addressed china and then the prime minister of the bihari vajpayee spoke of china as the enemy of china as the first enemy . on the contrary , i found my hosts in recent visits to india to learn from china .
since hildebrand was independent of wealth , he would not have worked so easily with him . so he got the stick instead of the carrots , and he did n't get it ? fortunately , we have a good independent test , and we do n't know what 's going on . the head of the european banking authority andrew enria issued new regulations that are not friendly to the banks . while the situation can be debated with the appropriateness of tightening the accounting standards in the middle of the crisis , the order for banks to increase their capital is justified , in particular when the european central bank is subsidizing them with a three-year liquidity wall at almost zero costs .
second , and partly because of that , virtually all eurozone debt is trading at a discount relative to german bunnies . although the risk of price risk is needed more accurately , it is difficult to believe that the land of the underworld , with a debt ratio of almost 20 percentage points lower than the german , should be assessed as a higher risk of default . but even now , the powerful bund has suffered from increased market anxiety . third , financial participants and real businesses are increasingly pricing for the eurozone 's possible breakup , if not the eurozone itself . it is still difficult to think about it , let alone figure out the details , but every sensible player must now consider the possibility .
on the day of the sunday , a young football fan was murdered in moscow , the first deputy of president dmitri medvedev , met michael mccfaul , president barack obama 's national security council . this meeting was held in the gathering led by surkov of russian activists for youth movement . one of surkov 's quotes is especially important : " prepare for elections , train your brain and muscles . you can always rely on our support , and you 'll be able to rely on it . " the muscles were supposed to be used on the walls of the kremlin that day .
hong kong - the frog once said , " it 's not easy to be bein ' green . " today , this opinion is surprisingly important to the world economy - but it is now green , which is a problem . the intergovernmental climate change panel warned that , if the world is in " business as usual , " global temperatures may increase by more than 4 ° c - far beyond the 2 ° c increase , which was considered " safe . " this prompted the general ban on the secretary-moon to challenge political , economic , and financial leaders in the mouth of january , in order to strengthen their efforts to reach a new global agreement on climate change by 2015 . but , given the importance of high-level agreements , they will be small if they do not support significant investments in areas such as smart networks , energy storage and renewable energy sources .
the search for a new ceo of the imf is a great reminder of how unjust international institutions are today . they were created in the post-war world of 1945 , reflecting the fact that existed for a long time . the organization and division of power in the united nations , the imf , the world bank , and the g7 meetings reflects the global balance that has long since disappeared . after the defeat of wwii germany and japan , the soviet union posed a great threat , and china was engulfed in civil war , which would bring the mao communists to power . most of the so-called third world was either independent or maintained by colonies .
just before the referendum to brexit in 2016 , the british prime minister david cameron filed a request for the chancellor of chancellor anela merkel for the last minute , and asked her to agree to the movement of people into uk . merkel refused , and the referendum to brexit passed through a narrow pass . the irony is that merkel is now facing the same anti-immigration backlash that cameron did in 2016 . immigration is generally good for the economy for a long time , especially if the proportion of retirees is increasing . but if immigration exceeds the country 's ability to absorb new workers , it may be a serious economic and social burden .
the vile debt idea was revived in an influential article in 2006 by the " jayachandran " and michael kremer , and in 2010 , the centre for development of global development , " cgd , " which proposed that economic sanctions include a mechanism to prevent the accumulation of odious obligations . the mechanism would be a declaration that a debt issued by a specific government would be considered vile . in fact , this is what the trump administration has just done , and that 's why it 's not going to happen . such a statement reduces the amount of funds to the vile regimes , since the risk of renouncing the debts of the successor governments without the legal and reputation of the predecessor ( since the courts of the participating countries do not carry out debt contracts ) . the cgd report suggests that the regime should be considered to be vile if it is to abstain the human rights of the population , to use military violence , to commit electoral fraud , to commit mismanagement or abuse of public funds .
this was the way bhutto returned , who remained prime minister until 1996 , when she was released again - this time her own people from pakistan . in 1997 , it was a sharp turn , and it was the same as in 1997 . but his confrontation with the military has increased over the years , leading to a further coup in 1999 , which led to eight years of military government under the influence of the pervez insurgency . in 2008 , musharraf resigned under the general pressure and the new election was taken by zardari , the widow of benazir bhutto , who was murdered by the previous deember , before the presidency . zardari ignored the constitutional requirements , and instead , he did not transfer the executive authority to the prime minister , and he expected the two prime ministers who had been under his command .
the transition from countries to livelihoods to sustained growth and prosperity has been conditioned by a significant demographic change - which took place in the early 19th century in the western europe , and in the course of the twentieth century in eastern asia - in which fertility rates have fallen dramatically . over the last two decades , fertility declines have been similarly sharp in poor countries , which now show signs of economic progress . fertility rates in egypt have declined from 4.8 to 2.9 children per woman over the last 15 years . in the last 10 years , the average annual income per capita increased by 2.6 % . in the same period , the rate of population growth in tunisia decreased by more than 50 % , and the euro was slightly higher than two children per woman , while the income of the capita increased by 3 % per year .
in response to the efforts of former president barack obama to create a pacific-rim trade bloc , china has launched its belt and road initiative , which is now being met by an american initiative under the pacific programme . the two countries are also on similar paths , which are militarily consistent with the military . china is still catching up , but its total defense spending is only second for us . he built and launched his first aircraft carrier . it is developing and deploying defense systems against accessories / area-denial ( a2 / ad ) .
america 's misadventure in iraq , exhaustion of the world 's power , and its reluctance to maintain its previous level of commitment to the region , has caused the collapse of the system to be untenable , as no other external force is available . the resulting vacuum is filled with currents of political islam , terrorism , protest movement , insurgency attempts , and religious minorities , and the desire to bring about regional hegemons ( iran and saudi arabia ) . the partial withdrawal of the original medium east means that the end of forced stability will not be saved by the border between sykes-picot . the development of syria and iraq has already been as much as possible , and the future of lebanon and jordan has become increasingly uncertain . one of the few positive aspects of the region is that there are no global rivalry .
why are the services so important for china 's rebalancing of the market ? for example , services are much more intensive than traditional economic growth in the country . in 2011 , chinese services were created by 30 % of jobs per unit of production compared to manufacturing and construction . this means that the chinese economy can achieve its all-important objectives in terms of labor-absorption - employment , urbanization and poverty reduction - and that it has slowed growth in the gdp than in the past . in other words , the growth trajectory of 7-8 % in the economy , which is increasingly controlled by services , can reach the same objectives of absorption of labor , which require 10 % growth in china according to the previous model .
the united kingdom seems to be certain that , by 2016 , the referendum to stay in the eu eu eu , and the far-left party , determined as a greece , could win the general election of spain in the autumn . of course , events could be positive , and uk would remain a part of the place , and he would choose the status quo , or a more moderate vision of change than the government 's syriza-led government . but the worst scenario for the future of eu seems more likely : " grexit " ( grexit is leaving the eurozone ) , " brexit " ( uk is leaving the eu ) , and the resulting broad election result , which resembles greece 's . if such a perfect storm had happened , the existence of eu would be doubt , as other member states would consider or begin planning their future after the end of the day . indeed , all eurozone skeptical and nationalist forces in the member states of the eu eu eu countries would seek to withdraw their country from the main issue of domestic political debate and election campaigns .
oil prices are at historic highs , and they have a good time to go . the leading economy is in recession , and it is now in the first place . the negotiations on climate change are taking place in circles , and we 're going to change . the poorest countries " help is stagnating , despite the promised increase in the years . and yet , in this storm , it was difficult to find a real achievement for the world 's leaders .
two years ago , mauricio macri won the presidency in 2015 , and promised him that fiscal adjustment and opening the world would bring economic recovery . instead , they paved the way for his defeat , and they did n't know what to do . in a few years , the world 's rest seemed to be out of the way of reforms to the market and opening the economy . deglobalization , nativism and protectionism have created a new policy tone , with frustration and uncertainty about future overshadowing hope . frustration even afflicts the area 's paragon of politics in the open market , ile .
ronald reagan claimed it was " morning in america , " but now it 's the morning after . this ride to an out-of-grid , eat-what-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you-you- they were asked to admire the top of the pyramid , but they found themselves looking at the pyramid . it is no surprise that such a survival chic has become a new version of the radical communal chic of 1960 . americans have lost faith in those who have purred " trust us . "
china is careful not to act dramatic , which could become casus belli itself . indeed , it has repeatedly shown the ability to reorganize its strategy in a series of parts , and then separately pursue each element so that the individual parts can be put in place with minimal resistance . this shrewdness does not only keep opponents out of balance , but it also underscores the importance of security guarantees for allies and the value of building a countervailing strategic partnership in asia . in fact , china , disguised as a defense , is putting the burden of launching a war on an opponent , while he is seeking to put the foundations - brick brick - of a hegemonic central kingdom . the chinese leaders " wishes to resolve territorial disputes peacefully mean that they have a strong position to get out of their way without having to shoot .
these cities learn from each other , they build on good ideas and throw away poorer . los angeles has been implementing pollution checks for decades , but other cities , such as beijing , have quickly changed when they have seen benefits . in the next few decades , we will see a global system of interconnected cities emerging . if they succeed , they will all want to join the club , and they will be happy to join us . this is , in principle , the right approach to managing systemic risks and changes in complex interconnected systems and the successful management of common resources , although it has not yet been necessary to reduce the inevitable increase in greenhouse gas emissions in the world .
a few years ago , in a delegation from the west to china , i met president xi in beijing 's great hall of people . when xi spoke to us , he claimed that china 's rise would be peaceful , and that other countries - especially the united states - do not have to worry about the trap of " thucydides , " so called the greek historian , who chronicled how sparta 's fears of rising athens are becoming a war between them . in 2017 , the harvard university 's graham allison survey 16 previous rivalry between the emerging and established forces , and found that 12 of them had led to war . no doubt xi wanted us to focus on the remaining four , but we 're not going to be able to help . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish .
what is a reasonable view of china 's recent history , and what is it ? and it is cruelly said that the chinese communist party killed millions of people , desecrated the environment and deeply wounded chinese culture ? chinese intellectuals avoid the problem , and they do n't consider it irrelevant , and they do n't even think about it . we have to look ahead and not back , they say , " we have to look . " things finally move in the right direction , and do n't do anything that might upset the movement of hope .
london - what do the recently released panama papers , exxonmobil and canadian mining companies have in common ? it is all cases where powerful individuals and organizations have tried to avoid confusion , deception or hide behind the front . and they 're all cases where this effort did n't work out , and that 's all . the global turmoil caused by panama reports - 11.5 million files that seemed to be taken by computer hackers from the fourth largest coastal law firm in the world , panama 's most extensive fonseca - is likely to continue for a while . the release of files revealed extreme and sometimes costly lengths that individuals hide their assets and avoid tax .
longer-term consequences will not be saved , but they will be a problem for the next day . some say the fatal mistake was that , first , the euro was taken by a greece . it was clear that the country was not prepared for it , and it was clear . its fiscal policy was not in control , as it joined the monetary union in 2001 , and its trade unions were trying to reduce wages to the european union , despite lagging productivity . but this answer is too simple , given that these symptoms of dysfunction are not limited to ece .
this policy was meant to cause a financial crisis , as governments and banks had to leave their debts and debt . despite austerity , the forecast of this year 's uk structural deficit increased from 6.5 % to 8 % , which required an extra 22 billion pounds in the year . the prime minister david cameron and chancellor george osge have blamed the eurozone crisis . unfortunately for all of us , the explanation is now repeated by the bear . depression , recession , contractions - call them what you want - because the private sector is spending less than before .
paris - last month , carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere first exceeded 400 parts per million . if the current trend , which is consistent with the worst scenario of the intergovernmental climate change panel ( ipcc ) , is maintained , the concentration of co2 will increase above 800 ppm to the end of the century , with devastating consequences . the expected increase in average temperature of 2.4-6.4 ° c caused by these high concentrations of co2 in the environment is expected to trigger the worst outcomes foreseen in ipcc , including the loss of approximately 40 % of species , more frequent extreme climatic events , and the lack of water . in order to avoid the emergence of such risks and uncertainty in the future , global carbon emissions , which are annual at 8.5 gigatons , must be reduced by 2050 . even in the ipcc scenario , the concentration of co2 to 550 ppm will increase by the end of the century - a level that many researchers claim would be too high to prevent the consequences .
we have turned the corner of the rebuilding of the fishing industry and ensuring their sustainability . the european commission has just presented a proposal to reform the common fisheries policy , which will help restore the euro 's fishing . good science is the basis of both policies , and the basis for these policies is the basics of both sides . but it 's not enough to get our houses ready , so we have to get out of here . international cooperation is essential for the long-term health of the oceans in the world and for the sustainability of fishing and fishing activities .
technology that is used to treat patients in their own health care , and to enable them to be more consistent with medication , to improve the treatment of diseases , reduce hospitalisation and reduce the costs . today 's transformational advances in healthcare are bound to provide new genomics , providing large data that affect the decision in real time , more targeted and individualised therapies , and smarter and more connected delivery systems . they 're just beginning , but they 're just the beginning , and they 're the beginning . further progress can be expected , which allows for convergence of science and technology , especially when unconventional players enter the health care sector . in this process , the partnership between companies in the area of healthcare and technology will be increasingly important .
when strong incentives to flow across borders are strong , it will help to spread the business in several countries and expand international trade , which will serve as a tool to manage capital flows and avoid controls . even in a tightly managed economy , such as china , large capital flows have been able to control the situation in the last decade . moreover , the introduction of controls on one type of inflow leads to the fact that it is merely disguised in other forms . capital controls have real costs , even if they do n't stop the flow of resources . they create a level of protection against competition for those who are more connected , politically or economically , or simply have enough power to bypass these restrictions .
such shifts can only occur slowly , but they can significantly change the amount of valuation in risks and possible returns . today 's market can be explained in terms of basic factors : earnings are growing , inflation is being maintained , and the global economy seems to have a broad synchronized expansion . in the octane period , the international monetary fund updated its global outlook , according to which only a few small countries would suffer a recession next year . and while central banks plan or begin to strengthen monetary policy , interest rates will remain low . political crises , though they are sensational , are unlikely to change the economic crisis of investors .
skidded , as krugman said , was " doing worse this time than in a great depression . " he repeated the claim that krugman had wrongly believed that if he had not reduced the deficit , he would lose investor confidence ( " confidence fairy " ) . just a week before the uk vote , skidded off the idea that voters , " still wobbly from osborne medicine , " could " decide whether to stay in bed . " instead , the directory won a fair majority , a confused pollster and a keynesian . what could have happened - or rather , what ? - i do n't know .
on my right hand , i was teaching an educator who had just completed eight years of mossad , on my left , on my left , an ex-academic and former ambassador to the island . the two men had a different opinion about how best to guarantee israel 's security , and it was worth recapitulating their arguments . gold claimed that the return to the pre-1967 ceasefire would leave the island without " defensible boundaries . " he insisted that the island could only protect against threats from the east if it maintained a military presence on the west shore and controlled the river of the river jordan , which runs along the border between the jordan and the west bank . the teaching has argued that the military 's role is to protect the border between the islands , no matter where they are drawn .
if the van had been blown up by economist today , after a decades-long sleep , and only to see the numbers , he would have thought that a fifth of the americans were unemployed and standing in rows behind the kitchen . instead , we have a lower job rate , as the new armed forces have taken the first famous step on the moon 's surface 50 years ago . the idea that we 're going to win in a global slump may sound like sardonic musing of some unconstructed marxist in a dirty corner of the faculty lounge . but this view is not ideological , but it is not an ideal view . rather , global interest rates are scraping the floor , as growth outside of the gdp is slow .
since 1990-2002 , the private forests of new zealand have increased by more than 1.4 million acres . although the trees are not planted for climate reasons , they absorb carbon dioxide in them . the new zealand treaty successfully negotiated that this specific emission balance would be offset in overall numbers , and the real increase would be balanced . for security reasons , the country has also bought a lot of foreign offsets , including those with a very dodgy from russia and from the ukraine . but growing forests have also reduced the emissions of new zealand compared to 1990 .
berlin - europe seems to have finally overcome its multi-year economic crisis , but it is still unresolved . for every reason , optimism seems to be a new cause of concern . in june 2016 , a slim majority of british voters chose nostalgia for the nineteenth-century past , no matter what the twenty-first century promised . so they decided to jump off the cliff in the name " sovereignty . " there is a lot of evidence to suggest that a hard landing is expected to be a united kingdom .
in new york - in 2009 , the basic outlines of barack obama 's approach to foreign policy were clear . his government believes the united states should talk to other governments , even if they do not agree with their character . he prefers to act with other countries and go on his own , and he does n't want to . and he has moved our foreign policy from what countries do to their borders , to what they do . all of this is different from his predecessor george wbush , whose government has identified the selected countries as evil , and has largely refused to deal with them , often rejected cooperation with other governments , in order to limit the situation and seek to transform other countries rather than influence their actions .
until now , the wealth of states is based on coal , gas and oil . but if the target is seriously set at 2 ° c , the twenty-first century will see countries that are not so far away from carbonization ( such as large parts of africa ) , or leave it in time ( such as india and pakistan ) , which can be rich by helping companies to deactivate the carbon . for a moment , it 's all just utopian , and it 's still a long way off . in the current state , the emission reduction schemes are far from being fair and effective ; the main improvement would be to create a central climate bank , register and supervise emissions transfer . this bank would also ensure that emissions trading did not meet the objectives of the remaining total budget , such as the total sale of unused emissions from individual developing countries at the start of the contract .
politicians and the media have often portrayed refugees as a threat to security , cultural cohesion and public resources . the former secretary of state hill clinton , who was accused of donald trump in 2016 , decided to vote for the public against immigration , and recently suggested that europe should adopt a smaller number of refugees to stop the rise of populism . the gunter nooke , commissioner for africa 's german union , had even more unpalatable proposals : the african countries should be entrusted with the euro union as a special economic zone , which would be a " voluntary colonialism . " these solutions are not only unethical , but they do not end the crisis . humanitarian aid alone will not work , except for the measures to reduce the gap .
since 1988 , ian has been in a regulated system funded by government funds for the purchase of kidney . a charitable association of patients will arrange a transaction at a fixed price and no one will be paid for it , except for the seller . according to the study published in 2006 by the irish specialists in renal kidneys , the scheme eliminated the waiting list of kidneys in that country without causing ethical problems . the bbbc television program in 2006 showed that many potential donors had refused to meet the criteria of strict age , and others had to visit a psychologist . there is still a need for a more systematic study of the iranian system .
the concern was then discrimination : the euro countries , which were feared , would be easier to import from one another , but without dollars , would not import america . moreover , we officials feared that epu would repeat and undermine the functions of a newly created international monetary fund . but at this point , the two narratives are moving away from each other . president truman 's government and congress have recognized the urgency of reconstruction of the euro . to that end , they allowed epu to use 350 million marauding funds .
washington , dc - the referendum to the united kingdom and the presidential election in the united states has also shown that public distrust of global integration is growing . this distrust could derail new trade agreements that are currently being put in place and prevent future trade . the danger arising from this scenario should not be underestimated . isolationism and protectionism would be a violation of the economic engine based on trade , which would bring peace and prosperity to the world for decades . as a former trade minister for costa rica , i know how hard it is for countries - developed and developing , to develop trade policies that provide benefits to all of their people .
the uribe-lula-calderón axis appears to be set to keep him there . vez is not only a loser , but also because he provided the moral support of the farce ( he once described them as " belligerents , " not terrorists , and publicly called uries-like american stooge ) , but also because he believed he had provided a secret military support for the farce . this support seemed to be part of the " bolivarian " socialist revolution , which used petrol dollars to fund the left-wing governments of the bank of china , bolivia and cuba in the hope that there would be a regional anti-american alliance . over the last three years , there were serious reasons to believe that latin america was undergoing a regular destabilization of the left wing , given the rise in the bolivian morales , president rafael correa and their leader , chávez . but recent global growth in commodity prices has led to the fact that traditional regional power plants of cattle , cattle , and mexico have experienced economic growth .
even if the federal reserve continues to reduce interest rates , creditors will not rush to make a worse mortgage . with declining house prices , fewer americans will be willing to continue their profligacy . the bush administration hopes to somehow prevent a wave of foreclosures - and thus pass the problems of the economy to the next president , as well as with iraq 's quagmire . the chances of success are slim , and the chances of success are slim . today , america is only asking if there will be a short , sharp downturn or a longer but shallow slowdown .
the costs of centralization are borne by the costs of the concentration , but the costs of centralization are borne by the commission . given the risk of self-betting on convergence of policies , labor mobility , which allows highly valuable human capital , especially well-educated young people , to leave the lagging regions for those who offer more and more jobs , could become a key tool for adapting . as it stands , the mobility of labor is not perfect in the eu of the job . but with language education and implementation of something like the lisbon strategy for growth and employment ( which aims to create an innovative " education economy " supported by inclusive social and environmental policy ) , mobility could be strengthened . but more fluid mobility in the labor market is not a panacea , but it is not a problem .
today , russian elites feel like they are not just european , but also europe . they are determined by the euro , and they forget that they live in moscow or in ikutk , not in paris or in the budapest . we have largely been europe 's most important part , but eight percent of our population is a muslim , and we have inherited much from asia : cocitizens , cuisine , cultural traits , and common history . many new russians , who work as machines 16 hours a day , 7 days a week , look at their more relaxed western counterparts , and they often despise the tiger economy . " it 's not america , you have to work here . "
other neighbouring countries , including india , thailand and malaysia , also feel the consequences of the plight of the rohingya . the government of suu kyi has exacerbated this humanitarian crisis . while suu kyi does not control the military , which leads the murderous crackdown , the government has prevented the agencies from delivering vital vital vital vital supplies . all of the activities in the affected areas have been forced to stop the work of the refugee ( unhcr ) and the children 's funds ( unicef ) . this is a tragic departure for suu kyi , who has previously won international recognition - and a nobel prize for peace - for her role in the fight for democracy in myanmar .
although the relationship between euturkey and turkey is not at the best of all , the dialogue between the two parties must continue in 2017 , not only because of their common interests , but also for the crisis of refugees and collective fighting against terrorism . next year , europe 's politics will be consumed by negotiations on the break . in march , the united kingdom will likely invoke article 50 of the lisbon treaty and begin a formal procedure for the withdrawal of the contract . the challenge will be to reach a deal that guarantees the wellbeing of future eu-uk relations . it wo n't be easy , and negotiators instead of them have set a deadline of 18 months .
just a few days after obama declared that malaysia was a model of " diversity and tolerance , " the malaysian authorities denied the right to use the word " allah " in practice - a decision condemned throughout the muslim world for its negative picture of the island . moreover , the members of najib 's government support hudud , a group of penalties under the sharia law , which could mean strict restrictions on the right of muslims to choose how they behave in their faith . according to our own reports of human rights , the curbs of religious freedoms include the demolition of the rear temples , the bombings of christian churches , and the ban on the exercise of shia islam , which is about 15 % of the world 's muslim ships . similarly , according to the research center , najib 's government has " very high " restrictions on religious freedom . international measures to promote freedom and corruption are also indicative of persistent deficits in the press .
there are not many human activities that can reasonably be predicted for decades , centuries , and even millennia . the fall from nuclear waste is one of the most important factors : the contribution of people to global warming by greenhouse gas emissions from burning fossil fuels and the impact of rising sea levels is another . the latest inter-governmental committee on climate change ( ipcc ) has said in an uncharacteristically strong report that the sea level is " virtually certain " and that it will continue to increase in the next few centuries or millennia . moreover , the higher the emissions are , the higher the seas will be . but the recent revelations of antarctica are different , and they are very different .
the life of addis ababa - africa bears a great deal of lost , economic damage , and relations broken by terrorism . it is the continent where al-qaeda launched a war against the united states in 1998 by bombing the embassies in nairobi , kenya and dar es salaam , tanzania , where boko haram was abducted by 276 nigerian schoolgirls in 2014 , and in which 147 students were killed in their sleep at kenya university in 2015 . although these attacks have aroused the attention of the world , most people do n't realise that only in the last five years 33,000 people have died in violent acts related to terrorism in africa . violent extremism and groups that support it threaten to reverse the development of africa , not just in the near term , but also in the coming decades . african countries are especially vulnerable to violent ideologues because of the expansion of weak institutions and the uncontrolled territory in which extremist groups can be germinated .
the first problem is china 's economy , so dynamic , but so uneven . analyst chi lo lucidly presents a picture of macro success with a microfailure . in november 2008 , a huge stimulus of $ 586 billion was introduced in new november 2008 , which largely resulted in loss-making state-owned enterprises by controlled bank lending , and sustained china 's growth in the aftermath of the global recession . but the price was increasingly significant , and the result was a growing portfolio of bad loans , while excessive chinese domestic savings increased housing bubbles . moreover , chi argues that the 2008 crisis had broken china 's model of export growth , owing to a long-term deterioration in demand in developed countries .
in addition , we insist that china ( as well as the soviet union ) does not contain , but that china 's economic growth has been facilitated by access to markets and global markets , thanks to us support for chinese accession to the world trade organisation . in the case of human rights , we believe that there are fundamental differences between the political traditions and the existing systems of both countries . but in america , this is vastly different from the national strategy of undermining chinese state and institutions . for these reasons , the deficit of bilateral strategic confidence is growing , and the situation is still growing . xi , on his credit , has developed a concept of " new kind of great power " that seeks to avoid the conclusion of a long-term conflict between growing power and established power .
and there is little evidence that the corporate tax burden is actually falling on employees rather than on capital . the budgetary office of non-partisan congress and the tax and economic policy institute have clearly shown that more than 80 % of the impact of corporate taxation is on shareholders , not employees . market liberals would still argue that corporate taxes " distort " behavior and limit wealth creation . but it 's a simplification , at best , i 'm sure it 's a little simpler . for example , the competition between jurisdictions in the tax area is completely different from competition between businesses in the market .
doctors are not gods , but they are increasingly a god , and they refuse to use life-extending techniques for patients and families who want them , and they are willing to pay for them . there 's no medicine in the wasteland , and there 's no medicine in the private . the only way to get rid of unhappy patients is to leave the country or to go to court . the european social security states are therefore facing a serious problem for the situation in the future . there is no doubt that holland will spend a lot of money on caring for the old people .
unfortunately , it is unclear whether the chinese model of infrastructure development can be exported in general . china 's strong central government is resisting people who have been displaced from new roads , bridges and dams , and has been subject to tough environmental concerns for many years , and workers " rights . the parallel to the soviet union is striking , and it is a great deal of progress . some developing countries in asia are working differently , and they are also working on the market . for example , in democratic india , the re-construction of mumbai airport took eight years , as the courts forced the government to respect the rights of squatters on the outskirts of the city .
and even if the revenue is to be obtained , since airports can be obtained , businesses may be deterred by the need to rely on long-term price agreements . it is also easy to get into a trap of ideas about tax cuts in order to boost aggregate demand . but republicans in congress can demand that they pay for the reduction of their income tax by limiting deductions that individuals now use to reduce their tax bills . the tax plan , which was submitted by the republic of germany by paul ryan , the chairman of the house of representatives , calls for the exclusion of all deductions other than those in favour of charitable contributions and interest on mortgage loans . this change would increase revenue of about 1 % of the gross amount of gross gross taxes .
nairobi - african countries are often criticized for failing to meet their environmental challenges . observers often cite a loss of the environment in the face of growth in the population , deterioration in the land and industrialization of the population . and then there is the most common charge : that the increase in poaching threatens species such as elephants or rhinos . however , in kenya , there is a project of innovative and extensive conservation . the people who could have resisted it : the local community in some of the country 's most productive agricultural regions .
the complex logic behind this strategy is quite disturbing - not just for us , but for the world economy . there is nothing cyclical about the ongoing aftermath of the balance-sheet recession , which has been evident for nearly five years . indeed , repairs to the balance sheet have barely begun for us at home . the rate of personal saving was only 3.7 % in wind 2012 - up to 1.5 % in 2005 , but the average of 7.5 % in the last 20 centuries . moreover , the overhang of debt remains a huge part of the debt , which is why it is not possible to repay the debt .
the eurozone currency crisis in 1992 and 1993 , and the recent chaos of the world , shows that the successful transition has not been guaranteed . the second successful success was that , in virtually all international measures , the second world currency of global reserves immediately became the second currency of the euro . moreover , the desire to be admitted to the club has led to a positive reforms in many member states , especially in the central and eastern european countries , which have joined the european union later . the newer observations on the " success " side of the book include progress in some periphery countries , especially in the area of spain , reducing the costs of previously uncompetitive unit labor . the ecb president mario draghi deserves the highest benefits of balancing german demand for fiscal discipline and meditating needs to be accommodation .
if she is not lucky , the crisis will be the first time in the election year of the german election , and all previous calculations may be mooted , because , despite the frustration of the german people with the euro , the electorate will be severely punished by those who have allowed europe to fail . the european union 's economy is becoming a severe and , in all likelihood , a long-term recession is largely caused by itself . while germany is still trying to stifle the specter of hyperinflation with strict measures to austerity in the eurozone , the crisis in eu is facing a real threat to deflation , and there may be disastrous consequences . it is only a question of time - not much time - before economic destabilization is triggered by political instability . hungary , where democratic backsliding is taking place , is a prelude to the eurozone crisis and deflation .
even today , thanks to a range of developed resources , we can detect very small nuclear tests in remote places . the contract is also fair - it includes the same rights and obligations for all parties . it establishes a new standard for the obligations of nuclear weapons and verification of the commitments . the ctbt is needed because of the role of nuclear tests in the development and improvement of nuclear weapons . these tests are also political symbols that do not have a place in the world to eliminate these vile weapons of mass destruction .
we need leaders with sufficient knowledge of the details , such as the last chinese prime minister zu rongji , who ca n't tell us how he can get us out of the corner of the line , but he can lead us from one to two . when i look around , it seems that leaders like this are extinct species . or , if there are any , they are likely to be limited by functional political systems . the ability to act is limited by the political environment of the two of them . the best example is that we president barack obama , who has so many hopes of resting - probably too much for one of the leaders .
today , the palestinians seek statehood only on 22 % of the territory , which was part of mandatory palestine , until israel was unilaterally established on areas much larger than those of the general assembly resolution of 181 in 1947 . the state 's search for palestinian is directly under international law in the area of june 4 , 1967 . the un security council decided in november of this year that " acquisition of territory by war " is unacceptable . the subsequent resolutions of the security council and the international treaties have been adopted in this respect . in fact , the state of palestinian is exactly what president barack obama called for .
some argue that the inventiveness and internationalism of the world , which is created by interests and common causes , is likely to be more resilient than one stuffed into artificial and increasingly limited national politics . in this sense , china or india 's economic success may be an unhelpful state , since the middle-class political ambitions of the current regime are not functional . on the contrary , we can find ourselves in a world whose eastern part is divided into a strong authoritarian state structure , and in the west , it embraces the model of a link between states . the question of international governance is how to create a framework for institutions and rules in a world of competing organizational structures . the answer to politicians is highly predictable : in the face of a resurgent russia and china , we do not have time to leave our states and diplomatic relations with their fate .
the anti-corruption campaign reflects the apparent determination of ccp to rid himself of vested interests . at the third plenary session in 2013 , the ccp announced 60 objectives for reforms of economic and governance . many hope that these changes will help the ccp increase its effectiveness , strengthen the market 's role , and prevent the so-called middle-income trap that has created many emerging countries . however , the rhetoric of the party shows little about how these objectives will be achieved . indeed , there are worrying signs that the main architect of the reform programme , the respected economist li keqiang , is already being sidelined .
these flows should be closed by both governments and financial institutions , and the european union should also be able to reduce these flows . the fact that the flow of recruits is limited is even more important to the extent . countries can do more to make it difficult for individuals to leave iraq or syria , such as a list of watch programmes throughout the european union , for example . but nothing would have a greater impact than turkey , which would not allow it to be a leadership , and would support the resolution of the united states security council 2178 , which requires greater international cooperation against terrorism . another part of the strategy must be to defend itself against the appeal and propaganda of the state .
political technology means secretly supporting fake politicians such as bogdanov , creating a fake ngo and patriotic " patriotic " movement as nashi ( ours ) , to prevent russia 's orange revolution in the country , and mobilizing voters from carefully scripted " enemies . " in 1996 , the enemy was communists , in 1999-2000 , in 2003-04 , in oligarchs . now we are - supposedly hostile west and threat posed by " colored revolutions " to russia 's hard-won stability . medvedev himself may find some of those distasteful things , but russia now has a political manipulation that is unlikely to disappear overnight . we also have to understand the mechanics of russian succession policy , which are not in the hands of the country .
so our job was not only to rebuild the state , but also to the company - to its family values , to its national traditions and cultural heritage . our newly released societies must now learn the language of our components , as well as the language of the economy and politics . by learning languages , by mutual cooperation , common interests , and historical ties , central europe has shown what amazing results can be achieved . the visegrád group , cefta , the european central europe initiative has created a free-trade system and a growing flow of investment between countries in the region . in a broader context , the hungary integration of the hungary into the western institutional structures is continuing steadily , even if not at the desired rate .
in 1988 , the conservationists decided to finance and build a fossilised fence to protect the area of the aberrant national park at the edge of small farms . the fence was designed to prevent the penetration of the human population and the degradation of the park . but it also protected farmers whose crops were regularly destroyed by elephants and other animals . local farmers welcomed the initiative , which affected the decision to extend the fence and surround the perimeter of the entire area of the aberrant . the landscape is essential for kenya , including the mountains surrounding 2,000 square kilometers of the native forest and the most important areas of the river and national park .
these protests have two main causes , and they do not have a problem with the problem . first , social inequality has not been reduced in the west for the last quarter of the century , partly because of the soviet union 's demise , and the threat of expansionism . the specter of revolution forced western elites to use the state 's power to redistribute wealth and support the growth of loyal middle classes . but when communism collapsed in a eurasia , the west 's rich believed they had nothing to worry about , they pushed back the welfare state and caused inequality to rise rapidly . this was acceptable until the overall pie was expanding , but it was over in 2008 .
in 1998 , the united nations estimated the total value of illicit drug trafficking for 400 billion . critics say the number is only half that - but it is still a remarkable sum . today 's colombia is much worse than chicago , according to al capone . so are other latin americans , caribbean and asian countries . the ban on drugs essentially imposes a tax on illicit drugs that are imposed on governments and are collected by those who violate the law .
tatiana insisted that bam 's construction was launched in 1974 , which was politically correct , and then " clean work . " but the first part of the railway - which was launched by stalin - was to offer an eastern route , which was farther from the chinese border - was built by a forced labor force , including russian prisoners , german prisoners , and japanese prisoners , who were now being held together in so-called bamlags , and now they are in the ghost cities . even when volunteers were used , they were not nearly as enthusiastic as official accounts . there was no adequate accommodation and electricity , few were re-enrolled , and many were abandoned before the end of the term . but the construction of the brezhnev-era bam has shown what the dying soviet system is still capable of achieving .
and with support at around 26-29 % , it remains popular , despite its poor performance , which runs the city council . the problem for the m5 is that , given the new electoral law , it will have to win about 40 % of the total vote in order to secure a majority of parliament . while proportional representation will determine two-thirds of the places in the lower house , the first vote in the constituencies of one member of the first vote will be decided by one-third of the vote , where the m5 is likely to lose , since it is not willing to create an alliance of the electoral alliance , which is necessary to secure a majority . the party 's grouping , which will benefit most of the electoral system , will be the only one who has managed to forge a pre-election deal with other parties : the berlin centre with the right to be led by the election . as he demonstrated his victory in the election in 1994 , 2001 and 2008 , berlusconi 's greatest strength was always built on the basis of a common agreement .
critics of the upper part have long claimed that , in a sustainable way , passenger fares and freight costs for rail transport , which could not be covered by maintenance costs , ensuring the safety of trains and tracks , which would allow for the expansion and improvement of services , were reflected in the failure of the government to make a difficult decision . it is true that coalition policy has prevented decisive action , and the railway minister has dismissed his party leader , who has been politically unable to stand up to it - after he has tried to raise prices . but in the interim budget before the election , the upa government eventually took a bite of the bullet , which proposed an increase in rail prices of 14.2 % and a 6.5 % increase in freight prices . the budget changes were postponed until the election . soon after the adoption of the duties , the modi government announced its intention to carry out an increase in prices , although officials have made sure that they are only interested in the existing mandate .
according to the approved law , muslim immigrants can be declared illegal , and they are not entitled to release the rights of the country . along with the government 's plan to create even more problematic national registers of citizens , the authorities will be able to disenfranchise any of the indian muslims who are unable to prove their origin in india . many indians , especially poor , lack of documentary evidence of when and where they were born , even birth certificates have been extended for decades . while non-muslims , thanks to approved laws , would gain free pass , the same undocumented muslims would suddenly bear the burden of proving that they were an indian . this suggests breathtaking departure from seven decades of practice in managing stunning cultural diversity .
since a deep recession has just emerged , financial disruption could easily lead to a crisis , especially in the light of the eurozone 's close link with russia through trade and energy . no one is really understanding the precise link between the russian institutions and the european union institutions and the markets . the fall of the cm in 1998 was not entirely unexpected , and the fall of the cm in 1998 was not so high . is europe ready to face a similar failure of a major financial institution ? financial sanctions on russia are not targeted , temporary or fully credible .
the gdp has nearly tripled over the last 20 years , but real wages have grown by less than half the rate , and growth has gradually declined from the fate of ordinary citizens . more than half of households in the middle of the year spend more than they earn . the signs of social distress are multiplying , and they are beginning to manifest themselves . the divorce rate in south korea doubled , fertility rates fell to the fourth lowest level of advanced economies , and suicide rates were the highest in the area of the disease . for two main reasons , south korea is worried about the problem , and i 'm not going to let you know .
this may mean removing the " tax havens , " tapping the phone lines and identifying people who are considered highly dangerous . police action must be ruthless , even if it means more control and surveillance . in order to avoid the creation of a common security fear , we must change the balance between security and freedom . while the european union is lagging behind the united states in the area of conventional weapons , its fight against terrorism is likely to be higher . for historical reasons , europe is using political maturity that allows it to avoid manichean worldview of bush , which has only reinforced the fanaticism of the enemy , rather than undermining .
ross should read the mehrsa baradaran 's information book , as well as the other half banks , and consider the high cost of credit for low-income families . or he could just ask mick mulvaney , the acting white chief of staff . mulvaney received large contributions from the credit industry on the day of the payday , which makes most of its profits from lending to people who do n't have the option to choose when they desperately need cash . mulvaney has also spent considerable time in the last two years in weakening the safeguards that the bureau of consumer protection has previously sought to prevent the worst abuse of the industry . as the government ceased to shut down , the stock price of creditors from payday increased .
the seoul - a huge revolution in military affairs is taking place across east asia . the latest signs are chinese president xi jinping 's purge of general xu caihou , former member of the politburo and former vice-chairman of the central army , on charges of corruption and " reinterpretation " of article 9 of the constitution , which allows the country to provide military assistance to its allies . despite the growing regional tensions that have inspired these moves , china 's relations with its neighbors and the united states are not aimed at direct confrontation . but the relentless march of new initiatives to address the perceived " china threat " will require political leaders , including chinese , to address their dispute in a new and more creative way , if that outcome is to be avoided . in general , international peace is three ways of promoting economic dependence , promoting democracy and building international institutions .
the new port - the seriousness of the global financial crisis we have experienced over the last two years - must be linked to the main source of instability in the banking system , which we can and plan to end the existence of . to that end , we must advance the state of our financial technology , and we will not be able to do so . in a serious financial crisis , banks find that the decline in the market value of most of their assets is not enough . they can not increase their capital during the crisis , so they will stop drawing up new loans and demand their outstanding loans , and thus to end the entire economy - if not the global economy - to the end . this problem is of a technical nature , as well as its solutions .
but when kadyrov enjoyed a huge subsidy from moscow , he rebuilt the grozny and secured it with some security . kadyrov also went to the spiritual desires of the chechen majority . he refused to give up the wahhabism - the ideological framework of the jihadists . but he claimed that lam was a key part of the control tradition and presented himself as a leader who understood it . so he encouraged the islamic code and built a large mosque - one of the largest , though not the largest , in europe .
the village 's housing must be provided at a large level , but it is not possible to live in the village . roads , airports and communications systems must also be restored . it is necessary to rebuild the educational system almost from scratch , and so many women who want to return to teaching will also help to improve the education system for the democratic politicians of the afghorsk . in particular , primary schools and libraries should be given in addition to cities . afghec.europa.eu poses a major problem in restoring the economy , as it is not a society with a strong political center .
of course , i 've just described it , it 's not just hypothetical , of course . in fact , it is a capsule depiction of a federal reserve of the united states and a central bank of europe . one of the most popular explanations for the different approaches of both banks is that they come from the historical experience of their company . the institutional personality of banks reflects the role of collective memory in shaping officials " conceptual problems . the big crisis of the 1930 " s , when the economy was collapsing , was the result of a crumbling event that burned into the consciousness of every american central banker .
in the first half of 2013 , he did not attend a commentaries of his new york , when the " austerian " deficit was reduced , and he expected a significant reduction in unemployment , or that economic growth would be restored to a rapid pace . on the contrary , " the disastrous turnaround towards austerity has destroyed millions of jobs and destroyed many lives , " he said , and congress has exposed americans to " the threat of serious economic damage to short-term spending . " as a result , " full recovery is still very far away , " he warned . " and i 'm beginning to worry that it 's never going to happen . " i 'm going to raise all of this , because krugman took a winning round at the end of 2014 on " recovery in the ama . "
although many of them are in trouble , it 's probably not the best time to start a new car company . the market for new cars has slowed dramatically , but it may be a good time to start replacing the petrol engine with the electric . the group 's initiative , led by räsänen , is called ecars - now ! a small operation in the country , a smaller company than a model of the company 's role , which the team hopes to create around the world . from the open software movement , räsänen and his colleagues want to release the idea and basic design and support many companies around the world to implement it locally .
but i think there is more wishful thinking than a hardline logic among those who call for " color revolution . " for example , no one has yet developed an accurate way to determine whether and how the government is effective . if the efficiency criterion is the ability to achieve all the objectives of society , we will probably never find anything like this . the united states , with a government that can not be described as weak , have unleashed a war in iraq and the aftermath of katrina hurricane . compared to these failures , the results of vladimir putin in chechnya are as high as success .
these and other sources of funding helped researchers develop crops resistant to drought , vaccines against infectious diseases such as ebola , and expand the possibilities of scientific and technical education . unfortunately , many african governments do not have enough resources to fund programs that could be built on these profits . it is necessary to introduce a new and more collaborative approach to african science . the leaders of africa have already merged their scientific resources with the help of these technologies . in 2003 , the african union and the new partnership for africa 's development began to implement a strategy of continuous use of science and technology for the transformation of the continent into a global economy .
the london - five years after we broke the investment bank of lehman 's brothers , the world has not yet addressed the fundamental cause of the subsequent financial crisis - a surplus of debt . and that is why economic recovery has progressed much more slowly than anyone has ever expected ( in some countries , it has not yet come ) . most economists , bankers and regulators , did not only predict the crisis , but they also believed that financial stability would be secured until inflation was low and stable . and once the crisis was imminent , we did n't know how much pain would be . official forecasts of the spring of 2009 did not anticipate a slow recovery , nor that the initial crisis , which was limited to the united states and the united kingdom , would soon be a crisis in the eurozone .
the difference is that uk will lose its voice at the table , and he will be very different . for britons in " remain " camp , such a transition will allow uk to remain in place , but only in name . and for some of the " leave " camp , it 's a way to get out without falling off the edge of the cliff . the third agreement in phase 2 will be set up in the context of a plan for relations with uk-eu after 2021 . this is not a free-trade agreement , but a political statement about where the two sides want to end .
the islamic world is riven by disputes between arab and non-arab , sunni and shia and salafi extremists and theological moderates . al qaeda 's agenda is about creating a new islamic caliphate , as it is about the start of jihadi in the west . fourth , europe 's traditional islamic attitudes are difficult to stomach , say , women or homosexuals . muslims do n't understand how we can trust our society when pornography and drunkenness are exposed . to the extent that europe is christians , we see religion as a matter of a relationship with its god ; the muslims see it as a social principle .
yanukovych has always been the ally of the kremlin . indeed , his election in 2010 was the end of the pro-european orange revolution , which was a failure to steal presidential elections in 2004 , and to keep the country 's russian camp in the hands of the country . so why did the press instead agree to a deal with the association without offering a kraine similar to russia 's offer ? the answer is to be found in the context of a relationship between the euro and russia . russia , with the collapse of the soviet union , has not only lost its position as a world 's power , but it must have withdrawn to the border , which has been extended west since the great - to the elb and thuringia .
what is needed for a high performance ? what is the need for a high performance ? in fact , it is productive , which i call an economic dynamism , but i do n't know what it is . for workers to be developed , they must be placed in an encouraging workplace , and new problems must be addressed , they must be more challenging to control tasks , and they must be able to work with them . less clearly , the country does not want to lead or make unnecessary changes ; it wants investments that appear to be productive to the financial sector . the late 1990 " s showed that low dynamism was associated with weak economic outcomes , especially with low prosperity .
first , since most monopoly power is not contrary to existing anti-trust laws , it will require new measures to weaken monopolies . the new concept of public interest should also be adapted to the new public information channels , such as social networks . second , standard views on income and property taxation will need to be adapted to take into account the monopoly power of the undertakings . and third , it is necessary to re-assess the laws to protect private information in order to ensure that the companies can not benefit from the use and manipulation of them . in particular , the public must understand its economic implications more closely , especially how many technologies have improved the lives of these people .
geneva - with a third " humanitarian " operation in the last few years - this time in the central african republic - interventionism , which seemed to be discredited after the invasion of iraq , returned as a recognised norm in international affairs . decades of persistent intervention have changed the terms of debate , and recent operations justify their achievability , not their merit . to understand how such a shift took place , it is necessary to understand why such intervention has failed to achieve its objectives . as the recent actions of france show , intervention is currently only a unilateral decision on humanitarian or counter-terrorism objectives , an atmosphere of urgency and clear link to ongoing united nations " deliberations . the military operation may also be referred to as a security council , but only after the council 's decision can no longer affect the situation in the area .
he claims that economists have become blind to disastrous macro failure , as they have mistook the beauty or elegance of theoretical models of truth . both the coase and the krugman complained about neglect of the patrimony of their profession - a tradition that dates at least to the smith - that is a great and unifying theory of political economy and moral philosophy . the current obsession with reducing and mechanical models seems to have driven the profession from theory to ideology , and thus prevented it from being in contact with the real economy . the simplicity and elegance of micromodels and macro models is useful in explaining the price mechanism and balancing the key aggregate economic variables . but both models can not describe or analyse the conduct of key participants in the market .
after all , these databases do not only facilitate the sharing of data ; they allow the theft . the question of regulating access to genetic sequence data is now increasing in international discussions , including in the organisation of health and food and agriculture . the most important forum for these discussions may be the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity , the main agreement on access to biodiversity . the next meeting ( cop 13 ) will be held in cancún , mexico , in early december . participants in cop 13 must focus on the protection of the rights of the source provider .
demand growth , which would be considered to be very satisfactory in the last decade , is suddenly desperately inadequate , and the bush is being blamed for the lack of labor market ( with some justice ) , which led to it . but for everyone except bush and unemployed , it 's an extraordinary opportunity . the remarkable increase in productivity , which was achieved by america 's economy , will eventually lead to an increase in real profits and real wages , only those who are politicians who resist the temptation to pursue political and economic consequences , but also to financially damage measures to protect the production and employment of the product . america is facing the world 's leading economy , and it is difficult to work hard to ensure growth , as it must not only create - not only copy and adapt - new technologies , but also to improve capital forms , but also to more productive business organizations . if america is growing as fast as it is now , it is a good news for other less developed economies , especially since one of the main effects of ongoing technological revolution in computers and communications is to facilitate the involvement of the global division of labor in the world .
in order to avoid further public backlash , these platforms must not only serve consumers , but also entrepreneurs , workers and citizens . at a time of unprecedented global challenges - including climate change and high inequality - must include the use of unprecedented power of leadership on the platform to catalyze the global solution . earlier this year , the production of artificial meat outside meat was celebrated by a rapid debut of the stock market . rather than focusing on increasing demand for meat by increasing the production of raw materials , as well as in the past , and similar businesses , such as unfeasible foods , are working to reduce overall consumption of meat , which is the main driving force of climate change . this is driving the latest shift in the monitoring of the company , not only to increase the wisely , but also to be wiser about what is in scale .
ontario - this december , trade ministers from all over the world will be converted into buenos for the 11th ministerial conference of the world trade organization . with the united states , which has historically led the world to liberalization of trade , which is now actively developing trade tensions , the meeting must be different . the wto 's ministerial gathering is never easy , and it 's not going to be easy . some sort of agreement is usually delivered , but only at the last minute , and its language is often unclear . however , this time , the outcome may be even more disappointing , and delegates can not reach a symbolic agreement that they can compete with an aggressive marketing campaign .
in 1998 , such a law was introduced in the form of a poland . there are similar norms in the czech republic , hungary , lattice and lithuania . by covering the role of local population in nazi and communist crimes , these laws help to advance nationalist narratives that can be useful to politicians who want to gain support from the population . the pis , for example , has gained considerable electoral support , partly thanks to its use of past tragedies for political reasons . there are more extreme cases than in the case of the case of the country .
instead , the reform proposals set out a set of higher capital requirements for leading banks and to advance deposit insurance by a special bank fee . there seems to be little interest in proposals for changing the requirements for capital adequacy in counter-cyclical terms . this would allow for the creation of capital buffers in the last few years , which could be drawn up in the wrong years . all proposals are difficult to limit the scope of " risky " banking , especially in the global economy , with a free mobility of capital . as is often said , if banking rules are not the same across borders , there will be plenty of scope for " regulatory arbitrage . "
the new york - a patient 's protection and affordable care , the signature of president barack obama obama 's 2010 reform of health care , has succeeded in extending insurance coverage to millions of americans who would otherwise not have had it . and , contrary to critics " warnings , it has not increased health-care costs ; in fact , there is hope that the price curve may eventually fall . however , it is not ensured whether obamacare is successful in reducing the costs of excessive health care . this will depend on the other policy of the obama administration , especially in areas that may seem unrelated : the ongoing talks of the united states with india on intellectual property . and here it seems that obama is determined to undermine his signature reform , thanks to pressure from the pharmaceutical lobby .
the reduction in fiscal support ( via government lending ) to zombie businesses would also be able to release tax capacity and allow the rerouting of resources to new sectors that would facilitate the provision of services and cities ; but at least this would exacerbate today 's demand deficit . the state sector is suddenly cut off and expected to be able to achieve a transformation through austerity is not moving forward . economic historians , especially michael , bernstein , in a study of the united states " crisis , convincingly demonstrated that the transition to a new sector requires a strong aggregate demand . if the old and new sectors of the economy are in a crisis , the capital formation will be phased out , the investment in the modernisation of human capital will fall , and structural adjustments will be halted . strong aggregate demand is always essential for the successful transition to the market .
london - how radically will digital currencies change our exchange methods and how do we think about money ? these issues are now being addressed by the world 's economic forum and other international institutions . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur .
bangalore - we 're the secretary of state john kerry 's brave efforts to save the israeli-palestinian peace process . although the main settlement was always a dream of a pipe , the united states will not be able to keep the façade of peace , which was all ongoing , and there will be no peace . and that 's probably not a bad thing to do , and that 's not going to be bad . the negotiations are not valid for several reasons , and the island 's continued colonization of the land occupied in 1967 , despite the opposition of the international community , including ours . if anything , israel accelerated the construction of the settlement since the last round of talks , and he continued to raise his demands , especially when he was about to send troops to the island in the valley of jordan .
she was rejected , as well as the previous plea in 2006 , to postpone the sentence until her two sons were 14 years old - a request she had the right to submit under the russian law . in 2003 , he was a vice president of yukos , and as a lawyer , he defended khodorkovsky and his partner , a platon lebedev . he was then released from prison and was arrested in april 2006 , but he was not allowed to be released . by then , aleksanyan was seriously ill with the aid , which was denied treatment . in december 2008 , the moscow court approved the release of 50 million rubles ( at the time , about $ 775,000 ) .
in addition , it is necessary that , at the end of the year , there will be no further damage to the large tariff hikes , which are currently scheduled to take effect on carbon 15 . this timeline requires that both sides begin to act symbolic and substantive immediately . china should first propose a deal using the same text as the previous draft of the 15-page page , but with a revision of the revision to meet its three " red lines . " china should , in particular , remove the provisions on the maintenance of tariffs after the signature of the agreement and unilaterally to impose tariffs if we conclude that china is not in accordance with the agreement . and it should add a commitment that china will conclude a deal that " is consistent with constitutional , legislative and regulatory procedures . "
princeton - most of today 's advanced economies have become what they are , by traveling along a well-worn path of industrialization . the development of manufacturing industries - textiles , steel , cars - has emerged from the ashes of traditional craft and guild systems and converted agrarian societies into urban communities . peasants have become workers of factory production , which has not only been an unprecedented increase in economic productivity , but also a wholesale revolution in social and political organizations . the labor movement has led to mass politics , and in the end , political democracy . over time , manufacturing has been replaced by the place of service in the area .
and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur . after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years .
and of course , this average does not include a disaster caused by fukushima . nuclear power is higher than oil , coal and natural gas , and only hydroelectric dams . since 1986 , there have been 57 accidents in the aftermath of the chernobyl disaster . although only a few people were involved in the death of the company , those who had killed more people than those who had died since 1982 in commercial accidents . another index of nuclear power accidents - this one includes costs that are not incurred by death or damage to real estate , such as damage or irradiated workers and malfunctions , which have not resulted in a malfunction or leaks - documented 956 incidents between 1942 and 2007 .
it may not be so easy if we are no longer considered reliable protections and fears of china will cause panic . unlike some of her predecessors , merkel , who grew up in east germany , is wary of russian strategic plans . russia and china will certainly benefit from the abdication of leadership in the short term . some people do n't mind if they 're too worried about it , but they 're not too worried . russia is closer to berlin , or even paris , or new york .
but if the agreement is agreed well , the result of the final transaction is significantly higher than the cost . and that would be the case with the colombian agreement , which would address a large number of social and economic issues , including problems related to domestic communities , gender equality , gay rights , and millions of people who had been displaced by more than half a century of fighting . the agreement also included a historic programme of land-reform , which was created by the commission . uribe and his opposition allies are concerned about the question of transitional justice . negotiators have decided that the non-conditional application of the judiciary will not be possible .
for example , we were wrong about attacking iraq in 2003 , but we were right to join the battle against iis and save yazidis from the massacre . it was right to attack the occupied city of mosul , but it was wrong to turn the city into dust . it was also wrong to call for a coup in the syrian president bashar al-assad , as the forces against assad lacked the necessary support for the people , and we were not prepared to help them win the aid . on the other hand , the help of the syrian kurds was a good idea , as they were effective fighters with strong support from their own people , and they would probably not survive under the caliphate of the islands . it is right to strengthen south korea and japan 's defense , but it is not right to threaten nuclear war .
the problem began at the end of the cold war , when the collapse of a communist ideology was self-assured . as communism was dismissed , the term " state " was a representative of the state , around which our common interests and ambitions could be organized . the individual became the ultimate representative of the change - an individual conceived as a rational actor who populates economists ' models . such an individual 's identity is not derived from the interests of the class or other sociological characteristics , but from the logic of the market , which requires the highest self-interest , whether the producer or consumer or the voter . indeed , the economy was built on a pedestal and enshrined in institutions such as central banks and competition authorities , which were deliberately separated and independent of politics .
the main election of madrid june was sent a strong message : the turkey democracy remains intact . democracy has indeed prevailed during the campaign , and an incredible 86 % of the electorate has proved to be - a rate that is rarely seen in europe . the rest of the world - and especially the european union - should be taken into account . turkey citizens have denied the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) an absolute majority needed to change the constitution . moreover , the fact that the party 's democratic party , which is the result of a long-term marginalised minority of kurdish and other groups , has allowed the party to enter parliament for the first time , not just in the most important areas of the country , but also in the area of the kurd-majority .
if the application is successful , the refugee is entitled to bring his family to the same place . the arab families often send their minors to germany in the hope that they will be entitled to the next family . bacteria will have to deal with the consequences of the refugee wave for years . in order to increase the costs , many of them sought to create a european quota system for the allocation of applicants to the member states of the eu eu eu quota . but the german partners in eu of germany rejected it as a " moral imperialism . "
washington , dc - anyone who watches the presidential election of the united states must understand that national opinion polls do not provide an accurate picture of how the election could be reversed . thanks to the american electoral college , it is not the one who wins the most votes in the country , but who will win in the state . each state is awarded a number of votes in the election school depending on the number of its population . the candidate who crosses the threshold of 270 electoral votes will win the election of the president . in almost every state , the candidate , who won 50.1 % of the vote , received 100 % of the votes .
the new york - the prospect that the federal reserve would begin to exterminate zero policy rates this year - has increased fears of renewed volatility in emerging economies " currency , bond , and stock markets . the concern is understandable : when the 2013 feed signal announced that the end of its quantitative easing policy was forthcoming , the resulting " taper tantrum " was sent by shock waves across many emerging countries " financial markets and economies . indeed , the increase in interest in the united states and the likely increase in the dollar 's value could cause problems among emerging markets , financial institutions , corporations , and even households . since all of these loans have been borrowed in the last few years by trillions of dollars , they will now face an increase in the real value of these debt at the local level , while increasing the interest rate of emerging markets will increase , and the cost of debt services will increase further . but , although the prospect of a growing interest rate in emerging countries " financial markets is likely to cause considerable turbulence , the risk of direct crisis and distress is limited .
he did not support realistic multilateral solutions , and he did not face american policy . on the contrary , chirac , despite its right to iraq , was isolated , and the isolation grew , as he did not restore satisfactory relations with the president . indeed , in chirac , the country is becoming increasingly arrogant , convinced of the righteousness of its views and the universality of its model - the charges that are often directed against george w. chirac made mistakes in his approach to the new european commission . on the old commission , which was directed by romano prodi , the brotherhood was powerfully represented , and pascal lamy held a business portfolio .
and the expansion of global population - which will reach more than 9.5 billion by 2050 - will further strain the resources of the water . there is a need for urgent measures to ensure access to all available water and sanitation facilities . first , there is a need for drastic improvements in water services - including supply and sanitation , irrigation , energy and environmental protection - in order to improve the health outcomes and to enable poverty to be avoided . governments should lead to careful management and sustainable use of limited water resources . food and energy production , which is intense in water , depend on uninterrupted supplies .
while the irish leaders have often reduced the impact of sanctions , president mahmoud ahmadinejad has recently referred them as a major perpetrator for the economic turmoil of ireland . but iran had similar economic difficulties before - in the 1980 " s , oil exports were significantly reduced in the eight-year war with iraq , and global oil prices were very low in 1986-2000 , and they were relatively well handled . today , the oil embargo has been particularly unbearable for four factors , and the oil industry has been able to carry out its duties . the prohibition on oil exports is more painful when oil prices are rising in the world . ahmadinejad has benefited from a significant increase in oil prices , resulting in unprecedented profits .
not only has iraelis developed its nuclear capabilities , but it will also put the destruction of israel into its agenda . the ultimate defense against the threat of life is the deterrence of israel . nuclear equality in the across-board board may only be supported by the ian nuclear claim . israel has never tested nuclear weapons , and has unequivocally accepted the instructions of the nuclear suppliers , who seek to stop the spread of nuclear weapons . israel expects the government of the obama government not only to appreciate the unique context of its ambiguous nuclear status , but also to recognize that it will not be able to guarantee its neighbors or the rest of the world 's nuclear program , unless the central political environment changes significantly .
whatever the ultimate economic consequences of china 's first modest step towards the floating currency , it must be admired by its strategic brilliance . the genius of china 's mini-move ( which allows yuan to increase by 2 % against the dollar ) is that no one will know when or what will happen next . in the united states and in europe , protectionists were caught on flat feet , seeking to slap huge punitive tariffs on chinese goods . they want to keep bathing in the press , but if they push too much of the way and too fast , the protectionists will be seen as hindering delicate negotiations on the scenes . but no one knows if porcelain 's baby is going to start with something much bigger , as chinese authorities suggest one day and deny the other .
and here , obama will soon understand that hollande does not intend to bring sweeping changes . on the contrary , he will be a reliable and unexpected partner . hollande is unlikely to be friendly to america less than sarkozy , which many regarded as the most pro-us president . hollande supported the military intervention in libya in 2011 and joined the condemnation of the syrian president bashar al-assad . one of his close political allies recently declared that if the united states security council approved the military intervention in syria , the " vision " could be involved .
deflation - a sustained decline in prices - has given businesses and consumers strong incentives to reduce spending and collect cash . it reduced the ability of businesses and banks to repay their debt and could trigger a chain of big failures that would destroy the financial system 's trust and provide further incentives to repay the debt . such strong incentives to shake up , rather than spend , can keep demand and fall , and unemployment is rising , for much longer than the most sensible politician or economist ever dared to think about . thus , the main solution is : to use monetary policy ( lower interest rates ) and fiscal policy ( to increase public spending and reduce taxes ) , so that the economy can not reach the precipice , where the elimination is possible . but if it 's solved 50 years ago , why is it haunted by us ?
and 50 million children who live outside their own countries , or have been displaced within their own country , have been severely uprooted and threatened to live and enjoy a new life . millions of children are poorly fed and are not in school ; millions have witnessed unspeakable brutality ; millions are threatened by exploitation , abuse , and worse . this is not rhetoric , it 's a reality , but it 's a reality . the united nations - with support from countries such as countries such as countries such as countries - and by working through a coordinated system of response to humanities , including unicef - alleviates suffering whenever and wherever possible . but the number and complexity of the crisis in the cascade is testing the system as never before .
to this end , the coalition of african countries , supported by the united states " economic commission for africa and the new climate economy , is seeking to facilitate a meaningful and coordinated action that will bring the continent to a more inclusive and sustainable path of growth . this process will support a partnership with ministers of national finance and planning , relevant institutions for development and private sector . overcoming the formidable challenges posed by climate change in africa will depend on moments of common focus and clarity . the climate summit of the un secretary-general should be at the top of the secretary-general next month , and countries that undertake to increase emissions reduction targets under the climate agreement for 2015 should be able to achieve emissions from zero by mid-century . given their heightened vulnerability , african countries have all the incentives to set a high bar , and thus push others to ramp up their own contributions .
according to all evidence , the rejection of the constitutional treaty by the french and dutch voters was more likely to reject globalization than the rejection of the euro . the general instability of social relations - especially , but not just employment - is becoming increasingly unacceptable to many developed countries , not just in europe . and there is no stable economic order - at least not in democratic countries - if they choose to reject their support . capitalism could be reconstructed after world war ii , since it was supported by three necessary regulations : social security , which served as a major stabilizer , at least developed countries , key instruments to combat domestic cyclical changes , and a universal high-wage policy aimed at stimulating general consumption , without which capitalism 's genius - mass production - does not work . but the reindict of rich and developed countries around monetaristic policies supported by economists such as milton friedman , who began in 1970 , broke up with all of this .
at the same time , in the internet , in the days of gossip and false news , the world may look a little unremarkable from history . that could create a sense of real danger , but it would be a good idea . inflation targeting has other effects , which seem to be more important to central bankers . in his influential 1998 book inflation , ben bernanke and his co-authors advised policymakers to declare inflation targets because he " communicates the intentions of the central bank , " which would " reduce uncertainty . " the reported rate should be positive , they wrote , since if officials try to reach zero , any error may result in a deformation that could " threaten the financial system and cause economic downturn . "
the chinese , with its ambitious chinese strategy , clearly stated its aim : to secure global economic leadership in advanced technology . this place , in direct competition with the united states , which is currently leading to these industries , is emerging as an undeclared , but reinforced by the cold war over technology , both for commercial and military purposes . china is seeking to invest in these dual-use technologies , but it is seeking to compete with us in a commercial way ; it is also seeking greater military and geopolitical power . and he has used various methods - including weak intellectual property protection , technology transfer as a condition for joint ventures with chinese partners , avoiding export controls and legal harassment - to acquire these technologies from us and other trading partners . china 's intentions and practices have long been a nuisance to sino-american relations .
the berlin wall fell , and the german reunification was brought to the ground , and yugoslavia was breaking down . soon after , the czechoakia " velvet divorce " was born with the czech republic and the czechoslovakia , which , along with other central and eastern european countries ( including hunting and poland ) , anchored in the west by joining nato and the neighborhood . today , a trade war would be a major threat to all economies , but it is not a good thing to do . but the more we are , which is relatively less dependent on foreign markets , are more or less resilient to domestic markets than other countries , would be better than most of the contracting countries . chinese financial markets have already suffered , while the ones in the world have already held their own .
the agreement would support the stability of the irreplaceable economy and contribute to the stabilization of the euro and the currency . it would increase the confidence of ireland and allow us to increase the flow of direct investment in the country . the ratification would also provide us with a guaranteed access to financing from the european stability mechanism ( " esm " ) if we needed it . the esm is ireland 's insurance policy , as we are trying to get out of the bailout program with the " troika " ( european commission , ecb and international monetary fund ) and return to the market . the most important thing is that fiscal agreements promise to ensure a responsible budget in the eurozone .
in europe , the legislation to protect personal data is not complete , and much of the world is not even basic . after examining this issue with lawmakers in several countries over the last few months , it is clear that many of them do not fully understand the myriad issues that need to be addressed . it is difficult to address it , and it is also impeded by lobbying efforts and incomplete information . young companies should not consider ethics as a marketing gimmick , but as a major concern . all organizations should invest in ethics or in a review process involving people who assess the implications of a great deal of ideas .
young people in the bag are mainly urban , educated and middle-class , hifazat is mainly based on the support of the poor people in the countryside . traditional versus modern , urban , and rural , intellectuals against the anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti-anti- but , too often , they 've become a clichés , because they 're true . the bangladeshi government 's sympathies are closer to protesters than hifazat counter-demonstrators . but it must go a difficult path , as both aspects have significant support for the public .
but the real bomb was the sudden realization of the threat posed by digital currencies to the current monetary system - not later , but now . cryptocurrencies have been around for more than a decade , but no one has been sufficiently accepted to challenge the existing order . with the possibility of mobilizing more than two billion active users each month , the facebook could change that . now that the company has dropped the glove , governments should use the opportunity to advance a digital currency that serves the public good . even the defenders of the current monetary system will admit that it is not the same for everyone .
before i became the soviet leader in 1985 , the relationship between the cold war 's superpowers was at the bottom of the rock . however , reagan and i were able to create a constructive spirit through constant interaction between the outreach and the face . today , leaders seem to lack the courage and vision of building confidence that is needed to restore nuclear disarmament as a basis for peaceful global order . economic restrictions and chernobyl disasters have helped us to act on the basis of measures . why did a big recession and a disastrous meltdown at fukushima daiichi in japan have not caused such a similar reaction today ?
august is a traditional month when parliaments are released into the summer by the end of the year . it offers a moment to find out why they are so weak that they are so weak . across europe , it is not just a british prime minister 's prime minister , who is accused of " president " today . the german chancellor gerhard schröder is facing the same charge in the election campaign . the prime minister of berlusconi of italy does not like being called prime minister .
first , a new set of external disciplines will be created in a manual way , with a specific neo-liberal economic development model , which will remain untested , and will limit development strategies that have previously worked , and others that could work in the future . the reduction of national autonomy in the development strategy is a cost that developing countries are unlikely to receive adequate remuneration . second , it is questionable that the new policy agenda will provide much safer international financial systems . if capital flows remain large relative to liquid assets that are held by national governments and are easily reversible , the international economy will be held hostage for spectacular boom and bust cycles . in fact , the focus on internal structural reforms in developing countries is that the current approach will lead to complacency in short-term capital flows , and thus to a reduction in systemic risks .
many reports of women 's ceos and other high-profile women are coded with reliable clichés : they lucked into their new functions ( and thus did not deserve them ) , inherited from relatives or husbands ( and thus did not hold the reins of power ) , or they would not be there for long . if everything else fails , the attention will focus so closely on gender that the woman 's leadership will weaken . these clichés do not only undermine the reputation of successful women , but also reduce their value to businesses . and all these clichés were repeated in the context of the appointment of barra at gm . for example , cnn was talking about barra 's " knack for climbing the ladder of the company " - a phrase with some suggestive undertones , and one that would never be used with a man on top , for which he would probably be more likely to be a tough man , talent , ambition , and dedication than a " talent . "
few observers expected china to be transformed into a full-fledged democracy after its accession to the world trade organization in 2001 . but the country 's oppressive turn over the last decade has been disappointing for witnesses . state-owned enterprises are still favored , the books are burned , and china 's communist party is continuing to claim its primacy in all chinese areas . how long will it take to be the last thing that 's going to be the guess ? dynasties come and go , but in 2021 , the cpc will mark the centenary of its founding .
recently , elections in the post-communist countries of europe have brought groups to power , whose democratic credentials are dubious , at least . this is not a comparison of the hamas with any of these political forces . however , it is necessary to ask the winning movement , with several elected members in the prison of the island and others who do not want to enter the country in which they have been elected , so that the new parliament can not function properly . all of this is going to tell us three things about democracy , and i 'm not going to let you know . first , elections are rarely solved by the most important problems that have been resolved .
but only one such " patriot " was granted the honor of being allowed to carry out this act . that 's why lugovoi is being asked to do an autograph on his autograph . of course , it should not be assumed that the patriots , who are rushing over lugovoi 's achievements , concede justice for british allegations . the social awareness of the homo putinicus , carefully polished by television receivers , is so proud of the success of lugovoi and indignation of the notorious campaign that people who hate russia can easily joke in the chest of ordinary russians without even dissonance . we are obviously facing the mystery of russian thought , which proved so unfathomable to others , and thus did not succumb to any analytical scalpel , and which our slavers and eurasians had long written .
and , as inequality in opportunities reduces social mobility from generation to generation , it creates a persistent inequality trap . · to remove obstacles to opportunities , governments must address the main causes of inequality by identifying and removing discriminatory law , not least those who are actually criminalised . moreover , since inequality is largely in childhood , governments must invest much more in the quality of universal health care and early childhood education . only by supporting the creation of human capital from an early age can be ensured that the inequalities of one generation are not transferred to the other . · this investment will require additional national resources , which will be the subject of the project .
some , it should be pointed out , they 're doing it , and they 're doing it . since the crisis began , the cost of the labor market has declined significantly . it is crucial to take into account important reforms in areas such as pensions in the area . ece has reduced spending by more than any country in europe since world war ii . other reforms - especially policy reforms - will be strongly contested in the context of the issue .
two bubbles - property and credit - against which american families have borrowed freely , have long since burst . but the shocks persist : the cost of household debt was 113 % of the total personal income of the household in 2012 ( compared to 75 % in the last 20 years ) , and the personal savings rate last year was 3.9 % ( compared to 7.9 % in 1999-1999 ) . consumers have clearly identified themselves in balance-sheet repairs , and they have not taken the bait from their financial and monetary authorities . instead , they cut off the spending , and they did n't have to pay . the increase in inflation spending adjusted to individual consumption has averaged just 0.8 % over the last five years - the most severe and lengthy slowdown in the growth in demand for consumers in the post-world war ii period .
although his motivation may have been a social justice desire , perón has , in effect , bribed the beneficiaries to support their own wealth and power . with his beautiful and unspoken wife - a " woman of people " - on his side , perón was able to convince voters in 1946 that , as president , he would fundamentally change the country . he was as good as he was , and he did n't even have a word . the government 's nationalized banks and railways , increased the minimum wage and improved living standards , reduced national debt ( at least for a moment ) and revived the economy . argentina became less dependent on foreign trade , though the movement toward autumn has eventually undermined growth , and the country has lost its position among the wealthiest in the world .
eventually , in the midst of street riots and political chaos , arigentina left a peg in 2002 . with the experience of argentina , brazil 's spending cap seems problematic - all the more against the backdrop of political turmoil that will continue to predict the future . once the brain is recovered , the cap will likely be even more politically controversial . it is not difficult to imagine another administration - whenever it comes to it - to perceive the upper limit as an obstacle to economic growth . the defense of the cap will sound unconvincing , as the economic situation is weak in the absence of serious problems with credibility .
part of this can be explained by misunderstandings about the relationship between stock market prices and economic growth . a strange conventional wisdom developed in inflation and 1980 : the strong economic growth and unemployment rate were not good for stock prices . prosperity , as it seems , would cause inflation , cause interest rates , and it would trigger a market crisis . while experts have spent the last two years in this thesis , the market has quietly restored the rule of older and more common sense : prosperity is good for profit , and thus good for shares . there is one message from the markets that is worth considering , even for non-investors : the political confidence may be low in europe ; businesses and consumers may be in a state of crisis and grim in the past ; but , according to the market 's behaviour , the years ahead are more likely to resemble a stable and prosperous 1950s , and 1960 " s.
the nigerian associations of trade chambers , industry , mines and agriculture ( naccima ) have used its agenda for several years to coordinate economic reforms . in 1999 , this task was of crucial importance as a result of the country 's opening of democracy . the legislative advisory program is another tool that can affect public policy , but it is also a tool . in order to create legislation , such programmes require : - the number of applications for use in the form of legislation : * good economic analysis and background documents are readily available to the technocrats and others for the study ;
the currency has fallen , and the banking sector has collapsed , and the government has failed . the imf predicted that this disease and others would achieve a positive growth in 1998 ( for example , three percent of the thailand ) . the imf now admits that this disease will shrink by about 3 % . the drugs , however , did not save the economy much , and they did not save them . the imf mobilized a huge amount of money ( in all cases 118 billion dollars ) for indonesia , korea and thailand , so they would pay foreign creditors for their investments .
the obama administration knows the iron law of american politics - " it 's an economy , a fool " - and everyone else . however , highlighting obama 's ability to do things abroad is not just an attempt to distract him ; it also sends a message that the impasse in domestic policy is not his fault . so expect a lot of news from foreign policy in the next few months . the election year is a tactic , and american voters are right about the right . obama has performed much better in foreign policy than in domestic politics , which is more surprising , given the weak hand he has dealt with : america that has lost moral power , military invincibility , and credibility as a model of economic life .
but it is one aspect of the urgent need for europe to import people from africa and asia . europe will also see how their welfare and social security systems are disposed of ; the " european model " of pensions , health care , and unemployment benefits are replaced by despised and widely feared " american model . " this is not necessary , as europe 's peans demand that the rigour of less cosseded social conditions be imposed , but only for europe 's governments to be financially able to remain afloat . the main cause of all of these developments is the decline in the population of the euro . the " demographic time bomb " that economic analysts have discussed for about a decade is now exploding .
they believe that anger over the terrorist activities of ian is less important than the lure of business . and they watch with joy as europe , japan and america , instead of acting together , show a weakness of disunity . should a rogue state be allowed to escape with his provocations and his actions ? the problem is : in most cases , it 's going to happen , and it 's going to happen . the coercion tools , which the states have disposed of in the short term , are imperfect , and , if they are remotely effective , they require international solidarity , which is only created in exceptional circumstances .
london - a flawed understanding of what is driven by economic growth is the most serious threat to europe 's recovery . europe 's policy makers are obsessed with national " competitiveness , " and it seems to me that prosperity is synonymous with surpluses of trade . this is why bacteria routinely cited as an example of a strong " competitive economy . " but economic growth , even in traditionally unprofitable economies , is driven by productivity growth , not by the ability to capture a growing share of global markets . although imports need to be financed by export , trade competitiveness is focused on the euro 's main problem - very weak productivity growth .
and the more important batteries are for electric cars , the more powerful the effect of agglomeration will be . this would be a major shift , and it would be a big shift for us . china is currently checking the value chain of electric cars , including cobalt supplies , which are essential for battery production . as a result , china produces 69 % of the battery of electrical cars in the world , the united states have 15 % ( in tesla 's " gigafactory " in nevada ) and only 4 % in europe . however , europe could continue to produce batteries by recycling of old electronics , developing new cobalt-saving processes , and discovering alternative mineral deposits .
governments must reduce bureaucratic burdens so that entrepreneurs can take more risks . but important technology companies such as apple , facebook and twitter depend on people who have access to well-funded education systems . and while the " technology for good " sector in europe is growing , it will only succeed if it is supported by modern infrastructure , which generally requires public support . politicians in europe ( and elsewhere ) must adapt their minds - especially fiscal thinking - to bring people to the first place . governments that make it a central goal , not only to increase the wellbeing of people , but also to promote healthier politics .
the initiative will need to be top if it is to be implemented in each country for more open markets and to help to make available to those who face the need for adjustments . all countries will have to give up ; no country can bear the burden . pro-trade forces can talk to each other in a political process , but they are not in the process . for example , in rich countries , the interest of the undertaking in excess of 4 % of the employment relationship is not enough to block the opening of new services markets and manufacturing products , which amount to more than 90 % of the employment relationship . in developing countries , pro-trade voices could help to reverse the debate about global integration opportunities , rather than highlight exceptions .
indeed , ian 's rapid support for iraq 's government led by iraq was partly to prevent competition from regional adversaries . but the irish critics of intervention seem to believe there is a way to go . dialogue between sectarian people in iraq and regional compromise with turkey and gulf states is not necessarily a consequence of the loss of anian influence . iran has already removed maliki for haider al-abadi , and if a broader policy reconsidered to prevent it , it is also a threat . the irish hawks may believe their country is unbeatable , but fears that regional overreach could cause a long list of dangerous consequences .
in houston , the authorities were prepared to harvest partly because of the lessons learned from katrina hurricane , which destroyed the new orleans in 2005 . this storm caused a death of 1,833 , while 88 people were killed at harvard . the impact of lessons learned in india is even more surprising , and the results of the study are still very different . in october 2013 , residents of the state of odisha were alerted to the arrival of phailin . by the time the storm had landed , many people had already evacuated the area .
for catalan separatists , it means that they are now facing what political scientist hans morgenthau called " a-b-c paradox " of nationalism . if catalonia wants to leave spain , why should n't barcelona have the right to leave catalonia ? and why would n't today 's " oppressed " catalans become oppressors of tomorrow to prevent it ? given that the current situation is unstable and independent , many people believe that the only solution is fiscal autonomy for catalonia . but it 's unlikely , too , that 's what it 's going to be .
even this vain scenario could be optimistic , as it assumes that talks will be conducted - an impossible feat , if israel continues to continue to illegally build settlements in occupied palestine territory . these activities are not only unjust ; they are a violation of the resolution of the united states security council 2334 , adopted almost unanimously last year ( we are then led by barack obama , which is abstained ) . this resolution required " immediately and completely ceased all settlement activities in occupied palestine territory , including in east jerers-activities that amount to " a breach of the right of law . " any agreement between the israelis and the palestinians will require a deep concession from both sides - concessions that will have to be persuaded by the leaders of both sides to accept their public opinion . trump 's son-in-law and adviser , jared kushner , who were tasked to settle the conflict and the head negotiator of the trump administration on the matter , jason green blatt , seemed to understand .
the chinese authorities know how much their country has benefited from deep integration into the global economy . and they are not prepared to risk their national legitimacy : economic growth . the belt and road initiative ( bri , once called one belt , one road ) , which xi baptized " the century project " - is a real reflection of china 's strategic choice of china , which would strengthen trade relations with other eurasia and africa , and use the opportunity to accumulate soft energy . however , china does not openly challenge the foundations of a liberal order . the remarkable communiqué of world leaders , who participated in the bri forum last month , has committed more than 30 countries and international organizations to promote " peace , justice , social cohesion , social cohesion , social inclusion , democracy , good governance , law , human rights , gender equality , " and strengthening women 's power .
the question is whether new leaders will succeed in the next month of a new effort to implement the necessary institutional reforms needed by the enlarged union . the best way to proceed is to focus on the essential elements of the world . part of the constitutional treaty , which is blocked , is merely a compensation for the existing eu contracts , which , since these contracts remain valid , regardless of whether they are part of the new document , may be separated from the rest . part ii of the document , which is stalled , may be postponed . of course , this would be painful , as bureaucracies instead of government gain greater authority , and the democratic deficit of eu will increase without clearly defined fundamental rights .
this is true of the european nations , which are the countries of the european union . but there is a deeper reason for europe : the transatlantic alliance is needed today , and it is much stronger in europe , and europe is a partner of america . i 'm not going to forget about short-term electoral policy , or here , or here . in the long term , it is essentially an alliance of values : freedom , democracy and legal order . when the world changes and opens up across the boundaries of the nation and culture that values will be controlled by the 21st century ?
after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . two months ago , two police ministers , a transport minister and a former head of oil company were charged with selling property to private companies . these cases point to a high level of state detention - a form of corruption , a fraud in the countries of the soviet union , in which powerful private entities use their own resources to gain control of public institutions and assets .
a minority coalition that includes green will force the csu to compromise on migration issues and climate policy , which would otherwise be useless , given the impossibility of doing so , to die of linke ( left ) and green to block the legislation . and merkel herself will try to avoid a coalition of minorities with a fdp to avoid being dependent on her . the da would like to take part in such a government for that reason . then he could have taken the merkel 's red-green affinity with him . a minority government , no matter what its composition , would not necessarily be a bad thing .
one government minister at the cdf noted that a million chinese tourists who went abroad last year used credit cards to buy goods worth about $ 1 billion , but it was n't worth it at home ( and it was ironic that some of the european union 's products and american trade marks were produced in china ) . china is still a low-income country , with a single capita gdp of about $ 14,000 , about a quarter of the united states . although beijing and shanghai are relatively prosperous , poverty is still very poor . it is clear that , in order to achieve the five-year goal of the five-year plan , poverty should be eliminated by 2020 , which requires a reduction in the number of poor people by 55 million , and poverty is defined as a year of just $ 354 per year or less than one dollar per day . the high debt of chinese companies could be a source of financial instability , but several officials stressed that they were not afraid .
but those who believe that ccp can resist the internal degenerative dynamics of autocracy and historical records of failed one-party regimes could benefit from reading leon trotsky , who knew something about revolution . dictatorships are considered indestructible before the fall , trotsky reminds us of them , but their demise is considered inevitable once they fall . another explanation is fear of contemplating the unknown , and that it is not clear . ccp rule may not last , but the alternative - state failure and civil chaos - could be much worse than the present state . but the democratic transition from 1974 suggests that china 's regime will not be a disaster .
the neusoft began as a low-cost competitor of the oracle 's society . after moving to produce an audio device , liu jiren , neusoft 's ceo , there were complaints from local hospitals about the high cost of specialist x-ray , mri , ultrasound , and ct-scanning devices ( e.g. , by ge , philips , siemens and toshiba ) . all of a sudden , he was born a new business , and he was born . liu realized that the neusoft could connect standard intelligence chips and display software to a range of digital sensors . the equipment of the neusoft seems to be a small personal computer with attached sensors .
princeton - everyone now knows that germany is calling for shots not just in the eurozone , but across europe . inside germany , there were endless discussions about the german 's identity - what historian called " the constant dispute about what the german might mean . " but , in terms of foreign policy , the german german after the war - and later , a unified german - was utterly predictable : never in the west , never in the west , always in the case of more europe . the " berlin republic " is now very safe about its identity - and seemingly at sea , in dealing with the world . this change is a structural reason for which there are no structural reasons for this change .
and the oversight that distorted kelvin 's estimate - the possibility that fluid movement could effectively transport heat inside the earth - proved to be critical to understanding tectonic and continental drift . the start-up companies are exemplified by the possible benefits of taking risks and taking risks . although only 49 % of the production of start-ups and 37 % of information stars survive four or more years , they have managed to make breakthrough innovation . tom watson , jr. , who led the ibm for decades of strong growth , is known to support the brilliant blunders . as he said , " we should have the courage to risk it when they consider it a thoughtful risk ... we have to forgive the mistakes they made , because someone tried aggressively to act in the interests of the company . "
the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur . after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . the biggest threat is from the network , and it 's from the internet .
according to putin , he was rooted in a trump ( but of course he did not interfere with the trump 's name ) , as they shared a desire to improve bilateral relations . now , more than ever , putin needs friendship from america , and he 's not going to be able to get rid of it . although he was elected president on the mainland in a march , his approval rating has fallen to 45 % . russia 's russia is against the growing economic uncertainty that the sanctions trump 's predecessor , barack obama , launched after russia 's annexation of criticism in 2014 ( a move that initially reinforced the flagging approval of putin ) . the popular discontent of russia has also been inflamed by the broad redevelopment of pensions by the authorities , which includes an increase in retirement age .
of course , wall street ( which is the property of the treasury ) profits from liberalization of the capital market : they make money as a result of the flow of capital , as well as restructuring , which is the result of the resulting crisis . in south korea , the imf has urged us investors to sell the country 's banks to us investors , although the korean government has been in control of their own economy for four decades , with higher growth , stability , and no systemic scandals that have been marked by financial markets . in some cases , we bought banks , held them until korea recovered , then sold them again , and we reapted the billions of capital gains . in a hurry to buy banks in the west , the imf had forgotten one detail : to make sure south korea could at least get a portion of the profit from taxes . whether investors have gained greater expertise in emerging markets , it is not possible to discuss them with greater expertise in tax evasion .
princeton - on january 1 , derek parfit died , one of the greatest philosophers of my generation . a year ago , on the first page of a philosophy , they voted in the most important philosopher of the anglophone . of all the philosophers i knew from the start of my studies , the subject was the closest thing to genius . getting into philosophical discussions was like playing chess with his grandfather : he had already thought of every answer i could answer to his arguments , considering several possible answers , and he knew the objections to each of them , and the best counters for those objections . the parfit was not a household name , but a home name , and it was n't a good name .
the hospital seems well-manned and equipped , but i found the corridors and halls deserted and deserted . there were only a few options for treatment and diagnostic procedures in the area of treatment . even a basic test , such as cat scan , would require transport to a regional hospital . but the hospital 's under-equipped hospitals may not be the biggest obstacle to china 's crisis . equally damaging is the sensitivity of the government to its political failures and stigma associated with the disease , which is often sexually transmitted .
compared to the results of these two simulations , it is clear that the large volume of export of palestine labor to the island is reduced by the volume of palestinian economy to export goods by increasing wages and undermining competitiveness . these simulations also suggested that , on the basis of the export of labor , the lower growth potential for the palestinian economy is still dependent on the development strategy , rather than on the basis of export products . but the average income of the west bank and gaza will remain much lower than the average income of the labor market in the israeli region , which is gradually reopened to palestine labor . this confirms the huge short-term cost of social security for the palestinian society , which is limited by the access of workers to the labour market in the island . what kind of trade policy would it be possible to boost the export of goods rather than labor ?
addis ababa - when president winters mugabe was deposed in november 2017 , many of them hoped that the economic decline he had seen would soon be reversed . but in half a year , the economy is showing no signs of recovery due to the ongoing currency crisis . could a block cryptocurrency be a cure for what winter ends ? after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries .
but in this case , when a son borrows essential elements of the architectural principles of his father and serves a regime that seeks to use games for the same reasons as animated hitler , he willingly does n't want to take these sins into account . totalitarian regimes - nazis , soviet soviet soviet soviet , and now chinese - want to host olympics as a signal to the world . china believes it has discovered its own model of development and modernization , and its rulers consider games as much as the nazis and leonid brezhnev , as a means of selling their model to the world audience . the chinese were obviously politically deaf to choosing an architect whose name was such a dark historical invention . the name of the speer itself did not seem to care about the officials who had chosen him .
the way to put this circle together is that we love our country not because of the misplaced sense of ethnic or racial superiority , but because it is of noble and universal values . macron can proudly call himself french patriot , as france gave the world liberté , égalité and fraternity . in the last election to dutch dutch dutch countries , liberals could claim that immigrants respect their rights , since respect and tolerance are the value of traditional dutch dutch dutch patriot , which can be proud of . these are examples of what the philosopher jürgen habermas called a constitutional patriotism ( others call it a civil patriotism ) . this philosophical position has a practical impact on the environment , and it is also a matter of fact .
the effective and immediate implementation of such investigations would restore the credibility of the icc and strengthen its ability to carry out its intended role as a strong force for international justice . to succeed , the icc will have to overcome strong resistance not only to dictators and dictators , but also to the elected leaders , but also to us , president donald trump . in april , when the icc decided whether to proceed with an investigation into war crimes in afghanistan - including all those who may have been committed by the american forces - the trump administration cancelled the visa of the highest prosecutor . if the icc is to carry out the role he has created , he can not bow to such pressure or allow his lack of performance . instead , its leaders , especially the chief prosecutor , fatou bensouda , must be criticized for motivation , and prove that they are in charge .
the new york city - regulations on capital accounts have been the center of global financial debates for two years . the reasons are clear : because the world has experienced a " rapid recovery " of the world , as international monetary fund says , the slow growth of advanced countries is maintaining very low interest rates and other expansive monetary policies , while emerging economies are seeking to unleash the expansion policies they have taken during the recession . this asymmetry has driven huge capital flows from the first to the other , which is likely to continue . emerging economies fear that this flood of capital will increase the exchange rate of their currencies , and that the current account deficit and asset bubbles , which have been taught by the past , are a recipe for future crises . the problem is that one of the countries that carry out expansionary policies is united states that have the biggest financial sector in the world and issue a global currency in the same way .
green , as well as other organizations , opposed to the use of genetically modified organisms ( gmos ) , has campaigned against the introduction of beta carotene , which is converted into vitamin a. the mortality of moore seems to be high , but there is no doubt that vitamin deficiency is not enough for children , especially in africa and southeast asia . according to the world health organization , there are around 250-500,000 children in pre-school children each year , and about half of them die within 12 months . the lack of susceptibility to measles is also increasing , but it is still a cause of death in children , although one is reduced as a result of vaccination . in some countries , vitamin is not enough , and the high mortality rate of maternal mortality is also significant during pregnancy and childbirth .
what lessons do history have to teach us about the current global economic situation ? in 1829 , john stuart made a major intellectual leap in the fight against what he called " general gluts . " the mill has seen that the excess demand for certain assets in financial markets is reflected in the excess supply of goods and services in the product markets , which , on the other hand , has produced excess supply of workers in the labor market . the consequence of this was clear , and the result was clear to me . if you have removed the excess demand for financial assets , you have also cured the excess supply of goods and services ( a lack of aggregate demand ) and the excess supply of labor ( mass unemployment ) .
no single actor - whether it was a government , a university research lab , a ngo , a businessman or a group of investors - can solve today 's big problems alone . the differences in health care , education and climate change are seen in different areas . that is why the initiative of chan zuckerberg was designed to achieve maximum flexibility , so that funds could be transferred to non-profit funds , which would be directed at private investments or used to help affect policy discussions . similarly , the business company undertook to strengthen its activities by taking a flexible approach to early stage , providing seed , angel , and providing investments , with the expectation that , once these investments were cancelled , traditional commercial capital would be invested in the following stages . " of course , even billionaires ca n't solve the problems of the world themselves .
we populists , perhaps inspired by the smell of spicy ketty , seem to be unimpressed by the fact that globalization has brought hundreds of millions of desperate poor people to china and india to the world 's middle class . the liberal view of asia 's rise is that the world is more beautiful and more fair , and its economic fate is not dependent on where it was born . but more cynical views permeate populist logic , which is why , in its excessive adherence to globalism , we have sown the seeds of its political and economic destruction . trumpism is reflected in this sense of national mortality ; here 's someone who thinks he can do something about it . the aim is not just to " bring home " american jobs , but to create a system that would extend our dominance .
one approach would increase the deterrent effect by strengthening the conventional north korean and us forces and reintroducing tactical nuclear weapons in the south . but more conventional energy would not add much to the already capable forces , and the nuclear weapons would be returned to south korea only to make both sides more nervous ( and we would be able to carry out a sufficiently large strike at sea ) . another approach would be to normalize diplomatic relations if it could increase communication , thereby reducing nuclear threats . but in this case , north korea could hold a relationship with such a large demands as the withdrawal of our forces from the region and from economic and energy assistance to support the regime . in the end , north korea 's stalinist government will recede any effort to disrupt the isolation that must remain in power .
so the populist backlash in latin america - in the form of brazil , bolivia , ecador , and most disastrous venezuela - has taken a left-wing form . the story is similar to those of the two main exceptions to the resurgence of right-wing rights in europe - greece and china . in the interest of the main political error , europe 's institutions and international monetary funds are austerity policies . in spain , most immigrants have recently come from similar latin america . in both countries , the right to the right was missing the land of the breed he had in another country .
british and american negotiators secretly met with libyan counterparts to solve the 1988 bomb attack on pan pan 103 over lockerbie , scotland and other terrorist issues . in the quid pro quo , qaddafi agreed to eliminate his nuclear program in exchange for the end of the pariah . this was accompanied by a critical demand : no agreement without america 's commitment to the eschew regime . on december 19 , 2003 , libya formally rejected all of the wmd 's efforts . eight years later , the drone of predators and french airstrikes struck him .
the incredible annual growth in annual income per capita of about 13 % in the last decade was accompanied by a reduction of nearly six children per woman to four years . why is the rapid growth of the population bad for the living standards of the country ? the mathematical content is simple : more people mean that everyone is less . a growing population is dilating not just the accumulation of physical capital , but also human capital . the quality of children in poor families is falling , as their number is rising , as poor families with many children are unable to invest enough in education for each child to benefit from the main determinant of economic success .
they ca n't do it as a flower brigade ; they have to choose the leaders who can speak for them and negotiate for them . modernizers need to form a coherent force - and probably a political party - rather than relying on wisdom ( and good behavior ) of the people who rule the country . that does n't mean activists should leave the cause they fight for . but it is clear that democracy has many rules - ideally the rules that most of them have chosen . it may sound a little like an old system .
increasing incomes , increasing demand for health care , childcare and older care in the aging society , and investments in infrastructure , energy and technology will create new jobs . given the opportunities of these opportunities in the sector and the division of workers , women can be better suited to their use . if the current gender and sectoral patterns are maintained , women can have 20 % more jobs than today , compared to 19 % of men . this slight advantage for women is reflected in the expected strong growth in health care sectors , where women are well represented . in many countries , women take more than 70 % of workers in healthcare and social assistance , and this sector could have a quarter of the future jobs for women ( manufacturing will take into account a similar share of potential benefits for men ) .
i once witnessed a putin of court culture , and i did n't know what it was like . it was a new year 's eve 2003 concert at a newly opened house of music in moscow . there was putin on the other side of the aisle , sitting between a once-dissident cellist and conductor michael rostropovich and his equally famous wife opera diva galina vishnevskaya . russian 's leader was like a boy in a candy shop - he was thrilled to be surrounded by cultural icons , and he was no less exiles . and the icons were clearly flattered by putin 's adoration ( and their proximity to power ) .
but growth in the gdp soon began to deteriorate rapidly , and the rapid growth of the gdp began to deteriorate . in an effort to revive growth in a difficult global environment and to maintain exports from deposits against the impact of the asian financial crisis , the chinese government has released monetary policy and fiscal policy since november 1997 . i do n't know , but it was too late for me to be too late . in 1998 , when the cpi inflation began to fall , producer prices were already falling for eight months , and they remained negative for 51 months , and the cpi growth began to recover after 39 months . the lessons are clear that the government should have switched to release earlier and more powerful .
so we moved from piketty 's r to blanchard 's r r < g ? if so , can they agree with their views on the basis of a common agreement ? the answer is no , and yes , and i do n't know what it is . the views of the piketty and blanchard can be reconciled because they are talking about different interest rates . while blanchard focuses on low-risk government bonds , the return on risky capital is concerned .
banks have not failed , and there is no sign of a fall in the dominoes . but that 's not because banks are preparing themselves for the increase in capital . on the contrary , the euro 's banks , compared to their likely future losses , have recently increased relatively little capital - and much of this is creative , not a real shareholder . the risk of restructuring the greek debt would be minimal , and it would be expected that the markets would be overtaken . but in that case , why do you have all the fuss about it ?
in scandalous countries , as opposed to german and us , the government , not individual companies , is responsible for most social benefits . this is prevented from being economically irrational , and workers simply ca n't afford to change jobs . moreover , the benefits are so generous that short-term unemployment does not force workers to sell their homes or even cars . the system protects not only the unemployed , but also the interest of the mortgage , but also indirectly banks , as loans to households are repaid even in times of recession . and instead of dealing with all sorts of private problems that are economically caused by the crisis , workers can focus on finding new and more jobs that are more focused on the future .
the irony is that this advice is based on the fact that much of their earlier productive ability has disappeared . but , as many emerging economies have suffered a crisis of currency and capital-account crisis , they still feel obliged to accumulate large reserves that would be protected by greater volatility in global financial markets . financial globalization has not increased , but volatility and instability have worsened . meanwhile , the " policy space " of the state has diminished since the crisis . public investment and basic social protection can help to reverse this by creating millions of jobs .
after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . one aspect of this alleged moral and cultural decline is the family : " to attack the family institution , to consider it with contempt , or doubt its important role , " the pope and the state of imam , " is one of the most dangerous evil of our era . " the document says the family is a " basic core of society and humanity , " and " it is essential to bring children to the world , raise them , educate them , and provide them with a solid moral and internal security . "
the youngest region in the world is addis ababa , with nearly 60 % of the population under 25 years old . but it is widely recognised that young people are often in the back of the world . they often face insufficient economic opportunities , and they can also be socially or politically excluded . if the involvement of youth in social and political affairs is not addressed , it will not be possible to achieve many of the objectives of sustainable development in the united countries . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish .
in the nineteenth century , china has not taken any land from china , and the current demographic situation in the east - where russia is six million , and the population on the chinese border is up to 120 million - is a source of concern in moscow . russia 's economic decline has increased its concern about china 's rise in china . while trade has increased , investment lags and russian countries have reached only tenth of china 's export markets . as the economic operator has recently announced , russia is concerned about becoming a younger partner of the alliance - more dependent on china than china is on russia . according to feng yujun of college , " the most important relationship for us is america .
the wolf could easily eat the lamb without a word , but he preferred to explain his reasons . first he 's running a lamb because he 's washing water ( though the wolf was on the line ) . he claims last year that lamb called him a bad name ( but lamb was only six months old ) . the wolf grins that if he was n't a lamb , he was his father , and then he immediately started to act . the wolf 's " justifications " for his devilish actions were the luxury he had allowed himself .
arlington , virginia - the election left one of the world 's largest countries deeply divided , handing the presidency to a military-loving , minority-bullying , media-bashing fire brand promising to destroy a corrupt facility . i 'm not talking about the presidential election in 2016 that put donald in power , but about the election in brazil in 2018 , which was won by the so-called trump of tropics , jair bolsonaro , who was formally inaugurated at janmouth 1 . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur .
then she quickly began to speak of our heroism , which we soldiers " fought for freedom . " it seemed odd - and many offensive - to transition from the king 's great plea to civil rights to sentimental clichés about the military . but then there was something special about the events , just as there was something special about the movement of tea . this latest wave of american populism is funded by some very rich people , including a couple of billionaires named david and charles koch , who favor cutting taxes for super-rich and destroying government subsidies for poor people , such as social security and president barack obama 's health care plan . this program may seem selfish , though it is understandable that oil billionaire is involved .
the beginning of his papacy is finding that the populist governments are in a vulnerable situation , which has been severely affected by the recent death of chávez . of course , they all have their own identity and strength , but they will not be protected by the global influence of vez and his subsidies . moreover , they rule countries in which catholics are a vast majority of them . although their religious commitment is different , they share a strong emotional bond with faith that will give francis considerable political influence . latin america will no doubt be one of francis 's priorities , and he will not be able to do so .
we have to lead the world by doing so , and by example . " but obama ca n't do it himself - and yet the american public and congress have decided to reconnect with their moral compass . for example , it should not be acceptable for congress to block the release of 86 detainees from the guantánamo bay , which has been cleared by the national security committee . even the revelations of former intelligence agencies have not changed the snow , and no one is exempt from the possibility that we will be able to pursue americans and demand a new approach . the answer to the second major question , which would shape the world 's future - whether china would regain its economic momentum - is also " no , " at least in the short term , when most experts agree that china 's export model and investment model has exhausted its potential .
however , significant and significant progress has been made in recent years . in addition , one day , we will know - by sequencing the entire genome - about the rarer genome variations , which are related to treatment response or side effects . this has paved the way for pharmacies that have not been created by generation generation . genotyping can be done within 20 minutes . if a customer is required to prescribe a prescription for a medicinal product with a known pharmacogenome profile , it may be possible to obtain a rapid genotyping to determine the appropriate dose , the medicine or dilution of the product for serious adverse reactions .
the financial crisis has created a new solution to the most favourable conditions for competition . from the point of view of banks , it was clear that a strong national government had to bear the potential cost of saving . it is no longer best to be subject to the most favourable legal regime , but to be in the most important places in the state . very large banks in small areas , with small scale governments , are vulnerable to the situation . we are big enough to deal with behemoths like a bank of american or civil society .
we still have to do a similar analysis of the fate of the islands of caribbean and indian islands , but there are probably many extinctions . the early european survey , which was likely to continue at this rapid pace of extinction . the number of species known to be extinct between 1500 and 1800 is increasing , as taxonomists describe the new species of skeletal remains found in the caves , such as bones . these searches are far from complete , and they do n't have much to do with it . linneaus invented a modern naming process in the mid-18th century , although the naming was not yet completed until the defeat of napoleon bonaparte in 1815 .
syria , iraq , yemen and libya are all involved in a mixture of civil and proxy wars . the irish nuclear pact is at best managed by one aspect of the irish energy , and only for a limited period of time . the islamic state may lose its territorial dimension , but it will continue to pose a terrorist threat for years . the plight of millions of refugees is not just a humanitarian tragedy , but also an economic and strategic burden for the country and the eurozone . and europe is already facing a number of serious challenges , including russian aggression against ukraine , brexit , populism , and nationalism .
these moves have created a space for politicians who think they can take action in advance . but the climate crisis is still growing , proving that we still have a long way to go . only this year , the disastrous heat wave hit north africa , europe , japan , pakistan , australia , and armenia . the deadly fires have taken lives and destroyed billions of dollars in the country , the sweden , the united states and russia . in kenya and somalia , the drought occurred , and the water shortage in southern africa was a major shortage .
this is the beginning of a major dialogue that will be the first to begin . the stakes for africa and the two of us are high , and we have a high stakes . a strong and prosperous africa with a productive and expanding middle class is in america 's interest , and a strong partnership with us will be essential for the continued growth and development of africa . the decisions we make now will have implications for the next generation of generations . we owe our descendants - and to the silicon savannah entrepreneurs who have already led the attack - to get it right .
paris - some countries naturally facilitate the concept and reality of strategic power . it was clearly the case of louis xiv , the king of the sun in the 17th century , and today 's china , whose leadership is comfortable with the balance of classical europe . the india is clearly in a different category , and the number of people in the world is not a different category . in economic terms , india 's confidence has increased as the western world is now examining it with respect and greed : " what kind of deals can i strike with such a emerging market , whose population will soon be the largest country in the world ? " but to understand the political and diplomatic relationship of india with the rest of the world , the most obvious comparison is that america is in 1920 .
the social mobility views are not uniform in all political areas or in all geographical areas . for example , in both of us and europe , people who call themselves " conservative " in economic policy think they have the same opportunities for all children and the free market economy in their country . the opposite is true for those who call themselves economically " liberal . " these people favor government intervention , as they believe that the markets will not guarantee justice , and they may even lead to more inequality . the more striking is that americans are too optimistic about social mobility in the country , where real mobility is low - including the southern states of george , alabama , virginia , north carolina and south carolina .
the grocer , the coffee shop and the barber are out of work , and everyone is leaving , and they 're going to make a ghost town out of it . the disruption may not only be caused by the closure of the industry , but also by the closure of the industry . once upon a time there were a relatively small chain of departmental shops and other retailers , who had spread headquarters throughout the city and had outlets in several cities . these headquarters brought income to the city by providing services to their business network . but consolidation in the retail sector , partly driven by mark-mart and amazon , has caused many of these companies to die .
the bat has not had enough support for the republicans , and would violate the rules of the world trade organization . the proposed tax cuts in republicans would create a $ 2 trillion deficit in the next decade , and they could not plug this hole into the health care plan , or $ 1.2 billion , which could be expected from the bat . the republicans must now choose between the transfer of their tax cuts ( and the addition of public debt to $ 2 trillion ) , and the implementation of a more modest reform . the first scenario is unlikely to be taken into account for three reasons , according to the commission . first , the conservative republicans in congress will be against a reckless increase in public debt .
however , this resilience will be reviewed for a longer period of time , owing to the fiscal and external imbalances that have not been affected by the revision of the data . part of the analytical attractiveness of national income accounts is that they are added . if the country saves more , but investments remain unchanged , it will borrows less ( or more ) the rest of the world . the net export position and balance of the current account shall be improved . but that did n't happen in the case , and i 'm sure it was n't .
first , when climate change comes , it 's important to look like you 're doing something . countries that manage this can be removed from the process by collecting data from them . this is an example of a climate agreement in 2015 , which is a very important example . countries have pledged to maintain a global increase in temperature below 2 ° c compared to pre-industrial levels , but all of their promises together contribute to a reduction of 1 % of the necessary needs . the new analysis shows that only 17 countries - including algeria and samoa - are actually fulfilling their commitments in most cases , because they have promised little .
the thawing of the siberian permafrost will release a large amount of methane . as a result , vast areas of our planet , currently home to billions of people , could become uninhabitable . the previous conferences of non-ccc signatories sought to reach legally binding emissions agreements , at least for industrialised countries that have now produced most of the greenhouse gases . this strategy faltered - partly because of the intransigence of president george wbush - and was cancelled at the time of the 2009 copenenconference , it did not create a contract for replacing the expanding protocol of kyoto ( which we never signed ) . instead , the copper agreement merely asked the countries to voluntarily commit to reducing emissions by specific amounts .
in the same way , during the russian prime minister 's presidency , dmitri medvedev called for a mechanism to prevent diplomacy and mandatory consultations in the event of a threat to the security of any state . if such a mechanism was established , the worst events in the country could be averted . political leaders , of course , blame themselves for putting these and other " european ideas " into the archives . but the blame must also be shared with the entire european political class , civil society institutions and the media . although i 'm naturally optimistic , i have to admit it 's very difficult not to be pessimistic since 2014 .
when it comes to a solution , the euro is ahead of the curve of the euro . for example , my home country , the denmark , which was asked to lead the negotiations on energy at the top of the un , has integrated into its power grid . sweden , which will lead the industry 's work with india , has created the first steel factory without fossil fuels . and progress is not limited to the northern part of the euro : the biggest wind farms in the eurozone , the land of the podium , the land of the electric bus , and austria is leading to green buildings . but as europe 's leaders are increasingly aware , it is time to strike the gas .
tolerance for religion of other people is the price of tolerance for their own . the prejudice tend to fall as a result of an increase in participation in the market . it was not in anyone 's interest to disturb this pragmatism for a very long time . one result of this deal is paradoxical " familiar with the difference . " because immigrants are involved in the economic and political arena of america , americans are accustomed to different people , and they are so distinguished by differences that could harm the country from those who do not want to .
this is why small businesses in poor countries and regions do not have the full potential . based on our experience - in mexico , which has opened up foreign investments and trade , and in canada , which is a leading donor of aid and a major source of private investment in developing countries - we believe that many of these problems can be identified , isolated and repaired . the business is already in place : more attention is being made to the smallest city in the poorest country on the day of the market , and you will see the private sector in action . if small businesses could expand beyond the village , they could increase their country 's growth better than any other aid agency . that 's why , when the general kofi annan and un development program administrator mark malloch brown asked us to lead the new commission for private sector and development , we agreed .
there 's no guarantee he wo n't repeat the game , and he wo n't repeat it . and yet , even if he did , kim 's own song for drama - from shooting missiles over japan to carry out frequent purges at home - suggests he knows how to command the stage and bring the trump to the table . moreover , his ego-stroking personal letters to show that he has a good influence on the president 's psyche . he has proved very effective so far that the broker is still alive and the summit is on its way . no matter how the second summit happens , north korea 's regime will continue to collect dividends at us expense .
in the context of growing inequality , frustration with pervasive corruption has increased , and the situation has increased . in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th of 180 countries in the index of perceptions of transparency in international corruption . meanwhile , the state is failing to provide basic security : in july 2018 , an olympic medalist with skating , denise 10 , was murdered in broad daylight in the centre of the largest city of kazakhstan , almaty , in an effort to prevent the theft of mirrors from the car . all of this has made emigration an increasingly attractive option , especially for young people , which has increased the specter of " brain drain . " it also turned out to be a heat for the simmering social unrest that has been overheated since the resignation of nazarbayev ( which could well have been specifically aimed at preventing popular protests ) .
but whenever the kingdom tries to reduce the number of public sector employees , unemployment is rising . under the current incentives system , the government 's plans to privatize companies and improve productivity in civil services will destroy jobs that are occupied by saudis . the job to create saudis may seem like a wealth problem . some would say that the entire kingdom must replace saudi for foreign workers in the present position . but a simple substitution does n't mean it 's not going to happen , and it 's not going to happen .
the point is that the parties can transact without barter . but money that has value and which can generate economies of scale can only be used by a number of currencies . it is clear that the reason why we do not use the euro or yen is not just dollars , is that we do so without a sense of use , and the economy would be less effective . the idea that hundreds of cryptocurrencies could be worked together , not only contradicts the concept of money . but it is also thought that even a cryptocurrency can replace money for fiat .
the cold war threatens to undermine these efforts , as china is required to strengthen its position above all . this means that , even if china is in a global economy , there is no long-term systemic threat to china . the unfolding war of sino-american cold war is much less devastating and dried than the war itself . the reduction of the impact will require both sides to recognize that in a interconnected world , efforts to strengthen their position will be self-defeating when they threaten global stability and dynamism . the trade war has brought this lesson to a great deal of relief , and it has been a long way to go .
the study before the conference shows that international cooperation could quickly reduce greenhouse gas emissions . they also stress the knock-positive effects that the rapid climate change measures could , among other things , reduce local pollution , increase energy and food security , and accelerate innovation . in order to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy , international agreements must be applied to all countries , including a common and consistent system for monitoring , reporting and verification , and a strong economic incentive for global scale . our price and discount mechanism are inspired by the " bonusus / malus " scheme , in which the new cars buyers are taxed or paid a bonus according to the emissions of the vehicle 2 . in our system , the country , which exceeds the average per capita , would pay a certain amount for each tonne of co2 ( or equivalent ) above the threshold .
the central bank can demand and reduce the cash price . if there is no excess demand for cash , there will be no excess supply of bonds and shares that are underpinned and financed by the productive capital of the economy . thus , the first point in the checklist is to expand monetary policy by standard open market operations . three months ago , i argued that all of the world , except for a small and balanced fringe of economic operators , approve of large-scale open market operations , to maintain total nominal expenditure in the economic downturn , and i am right . i also rightly say that all of the small and unbalanced economic conditions , which approve the central-bank guarantee of the stability of the system , are only a small and balanced fringe of the economy , so that the risk of a collapse of the payment system is not a first-order assessment , which would increase the demand for cash to an unnatural level .
the expansion of the nato and the european union , as they claim , was unnecessary provocation . in fact , no one other than george kennan , the originator of the cold war containment strategy , was opposed to the fact that , for that reason , the united states was not involved in the 1990 " s . this theory is clearly defined by the limits of the two of us , and we have no doubt that this theory is not possible . for starters , it is based on the claim that , at the time of the collapse of the berlin wall and the collapse of the soviet union , the west promised that there would be no need for further expansion . even mikhail gorbachev , on the 25th anniversary of the wall 's demise , accused the west of failing to keep the promises he had promised in 1989 , instead of using russia 's weakening in the 1990 " s , to claim " monopoly leadership and dominance of the world , " including the nato expansion .
the international monetary fund has also entered the act , and it is also a matter of fact . although the world 's economic outlook is a positive picture of global growth , the imf , who is still aware of the panglossian view offered in 2006 , is now beginning to realize that the world economy is " vulnerable to tightening financial conditions , " and that " equity valuation is being developed in some markets . " in this context , " some " is a code of imf for the united states . the market share of global equity valued is the highest value ever since it was - a remarkable statistic , given the declining share of global economic activity . how do we look at all these warnings when we 're in the middle of the world ?
i also developed what i called an adjusted deer , which corrects the " balance " rate for the ongoing economic cycle , accounting factors such as real interest-rate differences between us and the eurozone . interest rates are best suited for comparison , as well as the effects of quantitative easing , but i do not see any reason why government bonds should not be used for inflation expectations . the adjusted rate of the euro dollar exchange rate was eur 1 : 1.0590 . since the dollar was trading against the euro at about $ 1.1250 , it suggests that the dollar is about 6 % weaker than it should be . of course , 6 % of all of this is not a particularly significant difference , and this conclusion does not mean anything .
in 2009 , the party stopped abruptly , when two major investment banks accelerated the repayments of loans - hoping to return their money . the kazakh government , who had tried to support the extensive private banks with capital injections and nationalizations , gave up and decided to pull the plug . banks have not paid their loans , and creditors have taken a large " cut " ( the main value is reduced ) . but - and here 's the point - with debt written down , the banking system is now recapitalised and able to support economic growth . despite the unsettling failure , this new start has caused a remarkable turnaround .
for example , in the drc , even after all , we only have 8 % of 760,000 children . only 230 dollars per person is available for basic needs such as water , food and shelter , and less than $ 10 per child for education . this year must be an education moment - a new consensus is opened , which is crucial to achieving the objectives of sustainable development , including reducing maternal mortality and children 's mortality , increasing employment , improving the quality of life and opening up the minds of gender equality . but most importantly , this is an education moment , as young people in the world demand it . when a girl holds a book in pakistan , a child 's gun is held in the hands of an insurgent , when a teenage mother , banished from south sudan in neighbouring uganda , will be given the highest priority to her children , and when the lights of the universe can be seen , they can be included in groups of children huddled in the light of the candle , trying to read and study , we know that the time of education is coming .
president jim carter used it to end the 1978 camp of david accords and establish diplomatic relations between egypt and israel . and secretary of state james baker used it to overcome the recalcitrance of the shamir of the prime minister of iraeli in 1991 . if we do n't get this today , it must give up its monopoly on international conflict resolution . it is time to recognize that the israeli-palestinian conflict can not be resolved , to defuse the atomic dispute of the irania , to change north korean behavior , or to stop the civil war of the syrian government . over the last two decades , the world has grown accustomed to the world 's most important international coalitions for the middle east .
by making terrorists feel the same way , the world 's most powerful states provide a green light to terrorists not just in balkans , but on the other side of the world . the territory of kosovo is much smaller than the territory of afghanistan , but it is not a good country . if the world fails to eliminate terrorists from politics in kosovo , what hope will it be to defeat terrorism ? so before the anti-terrorism campaign is seeking to destroy other terrorists , it should eliminate terror in a place where the united states itself is ruling . if not , the un , the nato and the european union will discredit themselves and the humanitarian values they use to justify their " humanitarian " intervention .
if the relationship between fruit fly genes and behavior is so complex , can it be less with humans ? the view that a particular gene could be attributed to a complete biological trait is as old as genetics . whether they describe genes for the color of pea plants or the shape of wings of fruit flies , geneticists from the start of the last century , they believe that each gene is controlled by a unique characteristic . soon , several geneticists , founder of eugenics , began to claim that " decency , " " " laziness , " " " " laziness , " and " crime " could also be attributed to each gene . as time passed , and the scientific knowledge gathered - much of the fruit fly - the real complexity of the relationship between genes and characteristics was clear .
and after all , you ca n't have a final utopian society without the final scientific theory of human behavior , and with some crazy scientists or philosophers who want to take care of it . the problem is that , no matter how scientific these new beliefs have been formulated , they are still false . capitalism is , among other things , a struggle between people over the control of limited resources . it 's like boxing and poker , it 's a subtle , restrained , private war . military strategies have known for centuries that there is no final scientific science .
paris - early this week , the new government , in tense discussions , reached a deal with creditors from the eurozone , including a package of immediate reforms and a four-month extension of the financial assistance programme . however , despite the overall relief of the euro , the compromise does not preclude further difficult negotiations on the new financial assistance programme , which should be implemented at the end of the june . in any negotiation , the main variable that affects the behavior of protagonists , and thus the result , is what the failure to reach a deal would cost them all . in this case , the issue is the cost of the exit of greece ( " grexit " ) from the eurozone - a prospect that has been widely discussed in the media during the recent negotiations , and there has been considerable speculation about the stance of the various actors , especially the greek and german governments . from greece 's point of view , the euro would be highly disruptive , which explains why there is little support for it in the country .
elections in countries where democracy has been foreign are never nice , as the last election has been demonstrated by afghanistan , and it is likely that any elections in iraq will be held . but the electoral error is not always a whole picture of the election , but it is a complete election error . consider kazakhstan , where five million people have cast ballots in septum for the lower house of their parliament . the western media has judged that the election is a failure to succeed , and that is why it is not . cnn said it was " not fair or free , " but also " free . "
it is largely about providing public goods : the basic infrastructure , such as roads , bridges , ports and energy , as well as access to education and basic health care . and unlike many poor countries , india has a very strong business class , a fairly large and educated middle class , and many world-class companies that can be put in the market for these products . the source of growth is satisfying the demand for such goods . but a reliable road is also creating a huge increase in activity , as trade is growing between connected areas , and there are myriad businesses , restaurants and hotels . as india did with the approval raj in the 1990 " s , the subsequent governments understood the imperative of economic growth , so that the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) contested the 2004 election on the pro-development platform , which was approved by the slogan " india shining . "
infrastructure , material and intellectual , was poorer , and its economic structure was not suitable for new challenges , owing to firm size and specialization in traditional sectors , but also low levels of education and development . yet the berlusconi government did not do anything to address these shortcomings , even though it was the first government in history to survive a five-year election . with an unassailable majority of parliament , it could carry out coherent reforms on the supply side , even if there was a risk of unpopularity . several reforms were delayed : timid intervention in pensions and further increased labor flexibility . but nothing has been done to deregulate the product market , or to provide appropriate incentives for restructuring , while privatization has stopped .
despite civil wars , malnutrition and anxiety about the epidemic of aids , there is something remarkable going on in black africa : the rise of stealthy technology . if they do n't represent the african " silicon valley , " they can be treated and treated if africa is to thrive . consider what is happening on several floors of a single high-rise building in the city of gana . there are about 1500 africans who process u.s. health insurance claims - working in three shifts . the africans speak english , writing 50 words per minute on the computer , taking data from the forms of paper we provide to health insurers via satellite electronic form , putting them in a new digital form and sending them back to us .
but the westphalian system was destroyed by two wars of the first half of the twentieth century - both were in fact in the european wars for world domination . when the guns fell silent in 1945 , europe - even the winning allies of the euro - effectively lost sovereignty . the western system was replaced by a cold bipolar order , where sovereignty was dependent on two nuclear forces that were not europe 's borders : the united states and the soviet union . instead , it was considered an attempt to regain the euro 's sovereignty peacefully by merging the national interests of the european states . the aim of this effort was to prevent relapse in an old system of energy rivalries , mutual alliances and hegemonic cutting heads .
in october and november , the ecb will announce the results of the stress tests . since many banks have a large number of eurozone debt , the results depend on how the ecb will assess the state 's risk . if the ecb is significantly undermining the risks , its credibility will be severely tarnished . if it is more immediate about the risks , it is possible that some countries on the periphery will have trouble digging holes and require help from the north . i hope the ecb will be right in the middle of the world , and it will be right .
researchers should use a fully representative test group and ensure that strict rules on privacy and accountability are respected . of course , these initiatives cost money , but they do n't have to worry about them . venture capital companies now spend $ 3.2 billion a year on research and development of health . they should extend the scope of their investments in order to include ai-enabled technologies for the delivery of mental-health care . they could also fund competitions among socially conscious entrepreneurs to promote further innovation in this area .
but even if the teaching model was effective , it could also be a public policy . for example , harvard university 's growth lab , which was founded in 2006 , after two major policy engagements in el salvador and south africa . since then , we have worked for more than a dozen countries and regions . in some respects , the lab looks like a hospital for teachers and scientists . it focuses on research and clinical work to serve " patients , " or governments .
and we were both interested in british industrialists ' trade secrets , as china now has for intellectual property rights . the newly created textile mills were desperately trying to get the technology needed to steal british designs and smuggle them into skilled british craftsmen . we have patent laws , but they only protect us from the protection of the population . as one historian of our business has said , americans " were also pirates . " any sensible international trade regime must be based on the fact that it is not possible , and that it is desirable to limit the design of economic and social models for the space of the political area .
it will be difficult to make all of these changes , but it will be difficult . but if the world moves in that direction , it will begin to form a new policy system . the second big change - ie , the end of the world 's ideological division - is also difficult , and perhaps even more complex . today , there is a fundamental consensus on the fact that democracy and human rights are a place of departure for political organizations with a kind of free market , with a range of social responsibility for private business . yes , one can discuss the third , two , and a half , or three , and a half , but it 's basically marginal .
he offers a return close to those resulting from investments in equity , but some risks will be offset by a long-term nature . the risk would further be reduced by the participation of large and influential investors , including state wealth , pension funds and , where appropriate , international financial institutions . public contributions , which are likely to be supported by multilateral creditors , would provide projects with something close to the profile of public finances . finally , regulated cash flows would allow for better pre-defined recovery structures than the traditional private or public equity . the development of the budget would require a new private investment platform , structured so that the individual participants could provide a return .
capital inflows - which will undoubtedly increase in the next few years - are driven by investors " interest in diversification and high profits , rather than the idea of a country in which there is a refuge in the country 's financial markets , especially since china 's financial markets are relatively underdeveloped and exposed to considerable risks . of course , some foreign central banks have signed a trade agreement with china , and even have a small amount of money in their reserve portfolio . but these measures may be less of a sign of the inevitable march of the renminbi to global dominance than a low-cost bet on its likely emergence as a widely accepted international currency . and the desire of countries to maintain good relations with china due to its growing economic power can not be ruled out . depending on how china will open its capital account and develop its financial markets , the renminbi may become a major reserve in the near future .
the peasants in guerrero have grown the amapola for cartels , not for their own livelihood . and the drug enforcement authorities will not look kindly at any other backtracking from the commitments of previous mexican presidents to continue to pursue costly , bloody and futile drug trafficking in mexico . of course , there are other issues in the programme programme of us-mexican origin , ranging from intelligence sharing and counter-terrorism to regional crises such as venezuela , nicaragua , and possibly cuba . amlo will almost certainly keep mexican cooperation on the first issues , while retreating to the traditional and archaic anti-intervention stance of mexico on regional diplomacy . but trump is more interested in security than in venezuela 's president 's maduro , or in nicaragua 's daniel , so we can avoid a real rupture .
in 2015 , the new constitution , president burundi , pierre nurunziza , won a third term in the context of violent protests . the same year , similar protests erupted in the democratic republic of congo , following the introduction of the law that would allow president joseph kabila to extend his term of office . in this area , au should show leadership and support measures that strengthen constitutional democracy in accordance with its agenda 2063 . the au has previously resisted the military forces , and it is not possible to defend them . on the basis of its success in sudan , it must be against " constitutional coups " carried out by presidents , as it establishes a stronger force for peace and democratic governance in africa .
fertility rates in both of us , uk and france reflect a large number of immigrant families in each country . fertility rates among immigrants are usually higher than in the european union or in northern america . but the increase in the number of immigrant workers does not necessarily increase fertility rates . germany , for example , has a large number of people who have guests , but few of them have settled there with their families . the aging population contributes to the poor economic performance of the european union in the poor .
of course , there were no consequences for cheney , and there was no such thing . the news was barely visible , and the media was barely able to wave at us . impunity is widespread - indeed , most corporate crimes are not recorded in the register . the few who are noticed tend to end up with a slap on the wrist , while the company - which means its shareholders - is receiving a fine . the real culprits , who are the top of these companies , do n't have to worry .
greene found that people asked for a moral judgment about " personal " violations , such as pushing a stranger off the bridge , showed an increase in activity in the brain 's brain , which was associated with emotion . this was n't the case with people who asked for a judgment about relatively " impersonal " violations , such as the switch . moreover , a minority of people who thought it would be right to push a stranger out of the bridge would take longer than those who said it would be wrong . why would our judgment and feelings change in that direction , what do you think ? for most of our evolutionary history , people - and our ancestors - lived in small groups , where violence could only be caused by a direct and personal blow , pushing , strangling , or using sticks or stones as a stick .
in today 's more complex legal environment , trade agreements with eu and other partners will take years . political uncertainty is high , and there is no prospect of a general election . investors have every reason to take a stance on the issue of wait-and-see . in 1949 , britain was in a similar position , with a trade deficit against the united states and a weak investor confidence . in the sesew of that year , sterling was once again consumed by 30 % , as it was 18 years ago .
once in power , erbakan suppressed his tone and acted as if he were speaking . turkey continued to allow the " operation led by the united states " to provide comfort to iraq and to use turkish bases . he remained a vital member of the nato , who had not yet been a member of the union . relations with israel have improved with more visits by senior officials than ever before - a move orchestrated by a ciller , but it has been approved by refah . power has actually led to a refah compromise , not to extremes .
in new york - in 1893 , the playwright george bernard shaw , a dent supporter of women 's electoral law and equality , wrote a game of the owner of several brothels . the game justifies its profitable use of prostitution from the point of view of feminists . the game is not bold , and it does n't contain a harsh language , but it was eight years before it was possible to play . the opening in london in 1902 was staged in a small theater " club , " apparently only for members . the police have carried out a raid in new york in 1905 , which has been carried out by police .
the crisis in unemployment is a major economic , political and social impact . but the crisis can be averted and one solution can be as simple as turning the lights on . every year , about 13 million young people are looking for work on africa , but only three million people find jobs . the continent 's youth population is expected to be doubled by 2050 , up to 840 million , but africa 's schools and universities do not produce enough graduates to succeed in the future . although the african development bank hopes to create 25 million new jobs within a decade of its work for young people in africa , it is not immediately clear where these opportunities will be .
they did not calculate that the palestinian people had dignity and pride as well as any other nation , and they would insist on being treated accordingly . let 's clarify : the two-state solution does not mean that the illegal reality of the island settlement is to be accommodated ; rather , it means ending this colonial business . the statement of trump 's team , which refused to mention the two-state solution , is in a different direction , more consistent with the official position of israel : one state and two systems . but no palestinian , arab , or responsible international leader would accept this proposal , as has been clear from the reports of world leaders to the ump administration . now , plans are going to " promote the future of peace and security in the middle east " through a conference on the polish of the war , where palestinians will not be involved .
anyway , it 's not like avoiding the talk about israel is a departure for the sand . although he has commented on the matter , he has not been spoken about the issues of the country in general . he has never accepted israel as a political issue , as many american jewish politicians have . it does n't look like an israel in his jewish identity , which is more associated with the memory of the holocaust than anything else . in this respect , the sanders are no different from many other american jews .
king salman has embraced trump 's war against terrorism and anti-iran rhetoric and has expressed support for the israeli-palestine peace . nothing was said about human rights , much less about women 's rights , and the word " democracy " never passed . instead , we made a deal to secure $ 110 billion in modern weapons for the saudi arabia , which will then invest heavily in the economy . the agreement seems to be the basis for a new amazing friendship between the oldest democracy in the world and the most oppressive islamic regime . for a trump , as for president calvin coolidge , the main job of american people is business .
since gold was worth $ 400 per ounce in both years , the gold did not replace the dollar 's fall . a japanese investor who had dollar shares or real estate could replace the exchange rate by buying yen futures . the same is true for an investor based on the euro , who would not gain gold , but would be able to offset the dollar 's decline by buying the euro future . in short , there are better ways to hedge inflation risks and risks to exchange rates . tips or equivalent tips from other governments provide safe inflation margins and clear currency futures can offset the risks of exchange rates .
munich - since china has marked its undervalued currency , renminbi , dollar , and weakening of the dollar in the aftermath of the us financial crisis , it also meant a weakening of the renminbi 's debt to other currencies . but is china really responsible for the explosion of a global currency war ? the central banks of south korea , the british , the taiwanese , the japanese , and many other countries are now buying dollars to protect their own currencies from revaluations , and thus to defend their exports . the euro also became nervous after the euro exchange rate increased to $ 1.40 , which is far from buying parity ( ppp ) for $ 1.17 . the united states is now taking drastic steps against china and preparing provisions for the war .
however , these sources may provide valuable information , but they do not meet methodological rigor and conceptual clarity , which should be based on a public conversation . for these reasons , researchers , media and civil society organizations need to be involved . it is essential that we create an internationally recognised set of indicators and methods of monitoring income and wealth . the state statistical authorities should publish the highest 1 % income and wealth levels , 0.1 % , 0.001 % , and the actual tax paid by these groups . to that end , a particularly important milestone will be reviewed , which will be due to the combined national accounts system for the next three years .
the abolition of federal subsidies for health-care coverage under affordable care would save the government for more than $ 100 billion a year . however , these subsidies are largely paid by their own taxes , which are reserved to them . moreover , trump and republicans in congress learn that replacing obamacare is easier to say than that . health reform , as clinton would have told them , is a complex of fears . it is increasingly clear that the name will change ( " trumpcare , " anyone ? ) , and it is expected that the republicans plan will cover fewer people , but much of the substance will remain the same .
during the tenure of cardoso , he privatized telecommunications , the national mining company and part of the electricity industry . inflation has fallen , but unemployment , public debt and violence have increased sharply . social inequalities have increased , and last year 's brain has suffered damage and rationing for electricity . from the start of the campaign , lula showed strength , especially after the popular candidate roseana sarney was crushed and burned , when federal police and prosecutors found a pile of money in the office of her husband . mr and mrs. sarney were eventually acquitted of all charges , but not so soon enough to save her candidacy .
if you think people who get such a windfall will spend it on alcohol , gambling or prostitution , an independent evaluation shows that they do n't . direct cash transfers increase food security , mental health and property . for 450 million , you can buy 180 million beds , enough to protect 271 million people from malaria . ( for all these interventions , the numbers are likely to be smaller , since the calculator of charity 's impact is not designed for such a large amount , and it is therefore not taken into account that the costs will increase once the needs of those who are the easiest to achieve are achieved . ) when someone decides to buy a " salvator mundi " instead of looking back to nine million people , what does it say about their values ?
the mail manager will also be able to handle the incoming messages and facebook , the linkedin and other requests , as the beneficiary has stated , and collect information about the credit card from the candidates ( or more likely to charge their paychecks or navigate other payment systems in the form of a payment card ) . the beneficiary is unlikely to see the complex ; most of this will be dealt with in the context . you can set a price for $ 1 and a list of people who can get you free . there will be a lot of glitches at the beginning , starting with people who have more e-mail addresses , old friends , who do n't have a list of free candidates . but these challenges will be reduced over time , and , as the mail is sent , a higher proportion of the mail will be required and answered .
for example , in trade and immigration , bannon 's acquired philosophy , which was aligned with trump 's political opportunism ( trump 's more liberal , often democrat-backed ex-self , is another story ) . it was a mistake to see bannon as a pygmalion as a trump of trump 's galatea , or as some did , as some did , as the trump white house rasped . bannon has reinforced the nationalist tendency that led to a leap over the government of his daughter ivanka and his economic advisers by withdrawing from the climate agreement . and bannon had interrupted foreign policy by being put on the national security board for a while , until two generals in the trump administration - a national security adviser h. ( according to bannon , he was behind the recent push to force the master of the mcmaster , mainly by suggesting he was " anti-israel . "
they distrust each other too much to be able to work together , and they do n't trust each other . in the meantime , demand in most of the eurozone 's eurozone is weak , and it is not clear that economic growth is needed to repay the debts and to offer the hope of 25 million unemployed . the main obstacle to a large solution is the suspicion of parochial origin . no country 's taxpayers wanted to feel that they were paying for the excesses of others : the single currency did not impose a common responsibility . so the creditor countries , led by germany , sought to maintain the euro as much as possible , while debtors complained incoherently about german insistence on fiscal austerity .
the euro 's cheap credit was a response to inflation in southern europe , which was a blow to the financial crisis . credit conditions suddenly worsened , and the remaining stock of economies , which became too dependent on foreign finance , was significantly overpriced . the french economy is suffering because its customers in southern europe are in trouble . according to the goldman 's study , france would have to be written down by about 20 % relative to the eurozone average and about 35 % relative to germany , thus restoring external debt sustainability . the ecb and international community - especially international monetary fund - tried to solve the crisis by replacing private equity with public credit .
the same is true , even if you read the philosophy , say , husserl . the author opens up on the page of his fist and goes on a series of questions to find out how he will reach his conclusions . encyclopedias are never meant to be read to cover . if i want to know if the polon met kant , i 'll take the volumes and find out that napoleon was born in 1769 , and he died in 1821 . it 's possible that they met each other , and that 's what they 're talking about .
if we let them in , they could create a better team , but it would n't be our team . from one point of view , it is just another case of emotion that will defeat economic logic . but our emotions are algorithms , created by developments , and we make decisions about them , including political , economic analysis of costs that do n't connect with our emotional compass , does n't move the needle . at the core of the issue , it is the meaning of " us . " what does it mean to be a member of a " place of origin , " nigeria , iraq , turkey , turkey , " or any other political entity ?
the islam and democracy are often regarded as a bitter antagonist , and they are not only capable of doing so . but a thorough study of 47 muslim states in the world shows that lam and democracy can exist and exist together . the real gap is narrower : it 's a ab world , not an island that seems to be a loggerhead of democracy . this conclusion is based on comparing muslim countries " competitiveness in the election process . if the government has come from a fair election , and the elected government can occupy the most important political offices , it is considered that the country is " electorally competitive . "
( if that is the case , these standards are too burdensome , too ) . on the contrary , the bioengineer martin fussenegger correctly observed that the success of the venter " is a technical advance , not conceptual . " other scientists have observed that the organism is actually only half-synthetic , since synthetic dna ( containing only about 1 % dry weight of the cell ) has been introduced into normal or non-synthetic bacteria . understanding the history of synthetic biology is important , since the recognition of the right paradigm has a critical impact on how governments manage it , which , on the other hand , affect the potential application and dissemination of technologies . thirty-five years ago , the national institute for health adopted too much risk-averse guidance for research using recombinant dna or " genetic engineering . "
paris - with weak demand in developed countries , which now impede growth in emerging economies , including major actors in asia and latin america , are arguing that the convergence period has ended . there was nothing more to be done about the truth , and there was nothing more . as i have already stated , the convergence of real average income from emerging countries in aggregate with incomes of advanced countries will likely continue to be achieved by 2020 . this process started in the late 1980 " s and continued to be unabated , with the exception of the 1997-1998 asian financial crisis . the convergence rate continued to accelerate , and the global financial crisis in 2008-2009 , which was only a few seconds later , was only two percent more than two percent in the previous two decades .
this belief suited both of the main political parties to the proceedings , and that was the case . the work has tried to prevent constitutional debate , since any movement of federal authorities requires a party to be represented in the parliamentary assembly of uk . it is unfair to give the scottish parliament greater power , while continuing to give work to the labor force , which controls 41 scottish constituencies in the house of commons , and is disproportionate to what is happening in the england . as far as the conservatives are concerned , the party has allowed its belief in the unification of parts of the country to prevent any discussion of how such a union can be upgraded . if we want to prevent uk from rattling to pieces , we have to change our way .
this means that public data should be provided to require a record correction , complaints with standards and providing media organisations with training . it also means working with tech companies to find a way to prevent the spread of misinformation , including cross-border cross-border cross-border information . the fact-checking organisations should not focus on finding false information , but also on identifying reliable information sources and pointing to readers and supporters . and we should work with schools and other educational platforms to help people find false or false claims . this is the approach our organization has taken , and as small and poorly resourced as they are , the impact is already evident .
london - one of the most dispiriting aspects of today 's international debates - is that the threat to humanity posed by 23,000 nuclear weapons in the world - and those who would build more or be willing to use it - were credited to political boundaries . president barack obama caught the world 's attention in 2009 , which was an important case for the world without nuclear weapons . and he was carrying a new treaty to reduce arms and russia , and he held a summit in which he aimed at reducing the vulnerability of nuclear weapons and materials to theft or diversion . but nuclear issues are still struggling to gain public resonance and political pressure on the population . it would be a brave player to bet on ratification of a comprehensive ban on testing by the senate any time soon .
it is clear that the developed economy requires adequate and sustained investments in public goods . but the state of infrastructure suggests that many of the leaders do not share this view . a report from the american civil society in 2013 gave us a poor overall level of d + for infrastructure . the report contained numerous shortcomings in the state , including michigan 's 88 high-risk dams and 1,298 structurally inadequate bridges , and " $ 44.5 billion needed to upgrade the drinking water systems " in california . the report concludes that investments of 3.6 trillion dollars ( approximately one-fifth annual budget of the country ) will need to be improved by 2020 , so that we can better use infrastructure by addressing " significant backlog of due maintenance [ and ] a prerequisite for modernization . "
the second myth assumes that the prohibition will reduce the damage caused by the drug . global drug control policies , assuming that drug markets are more common with smallpox and other infectious diseases that do not require it . governments can act unilaterally and in a multilaterally to regulate commodity markets , but it is wrong to consider the ban as a final or maximum form of regulation . the prohibition , in fact , constitutes a prohibition on the withdrawal of the regulation . whatever is not suppressed , it is not regulated effectively , except for criminal organisations .
this is the best reason - fish caught in small quantities will produce a small yield . moreover , fish did not have the chance to reproduce and completely underestimate the fish stocks . for example , the intention of the common fisheries policy , which is to " protect fish resources , " is to adapt the amount of fish taken from the sea by allowing fish to reproduce and ensure compliance with the measures . " but as it stands , we have " hunted " stocks until few of the old people remain . i want to see this , consider the north sea cod , and i 'll take care of it .
official surveys insist that 86 % of the russians - and usually 86 % - support him from the annexation of crimea to the latest president . but putin 's ambitions as a post-modern autocrat can be his heel . after all , autocrats often mistakenly criticize the proclamations of love and admiration for the real thing . the truth about what people really think is not possible to know what they are . with the russian economy stagnating , thanks to international sanctions and counter-sanctions , discontent will continue to simmer .
but it was probably hungary , the first country to seek out a package of fraud , that these practices were most widespread . but this vulnerability was largely caused by western banks , or at least accommodated . the financing of parent banks , which has helped to provide liquidity to the east european banking system in the early stages of the crisis , is now more likely to be a source of disease . it was also the west european financial regulators and supervisors , who should have deterred these excesses under the " domestic rule . " foreign banks " penetration has also effectively lost countries in the central and eastern europe of monetary policy tools , and they have little control over their rapid growth .
this is a mismanagement of ethnic and religious diversity , which is a great and growing group of unemployed and digital youth , and the continent offers ideal conditions for chaos . the african governments have responded to violent extremism in other countries , mainly by putting " hard " security first . but this strategy has not reduced the effectiveness of extremist groups or limited their reach . there is evidence that only military responses can be wasted or even more damaging than good . the lack of a deeper examination of the causes of the roots , in particular the main challenges of development .
in addition , wherever the cost of healthcare is paid by everyone - including us , including public health care programs for poor and elderly people - everyone pays the cost of trying to cure the disease caused by cigarettes . whether cigarettes are banned is another question , since it would no doubt create a new source of revenue for organized crime . however , it seems odd that the state may , in principle , prohibit the sale of the product , but it can not be allowed to sell it only in packages with a graphic picture of the damage that causes human health . tobacco industry will now fight against australia 's legislation against the world trade organisation . the industry fears that laws can be copied in large markets such as india or china .
the un framework agreement on the united states has refused to finance efforts to prepare disasters if states do not show how disasters are associated with climate change . according to the latest research , the united states funding for research to reduce the number of disasters in 2003 was about 127 million - only 7 % of the invested research into climate change for the year . climate change policies are not the best way to reduce the effects of weather accidents . during the hurricane season in 2004 , the dominoes of the republic , which invested in shelters and emergency evacuation stations , were less than ten deaths . in the adjacent haiti , which was not ready , 2,000 people were lost .
the brisbane summit 's signature was to leverage the properly announced target of us-china emissions into formal support for " strong and effective measures to address climate change . " the g-20 stance represents a major challenge for the rest of the world to reach a global agreement on climate change conference in the united states in paris in december 2015 . ( all of this was the conservative host government of australia , who fought to prevent the issue from being raised ; however , the australian public was delighted and immediately knocked down by the approval of the prime minister of abbot 's approval in the post-summit polls for this and other embarrassing events . ) other formal results of the g-20 meetings were agreements - supported by more policy details than most commentators expected - to stimulate global growth . in particular , leaders focused on investment , trade , competition and efforts to bring more women to the workforce , fairness of the international tax system , and the way in which corruption should be addressed .
if you want to impress russia 's president , vladimir putin , or other foreign dignitaries , who host them in such a magical environment as versailles , it will be clear that they will be effective . but the recognition of the monarchical history of the country may be dangerous . many of those who voted for the macron were hoping for a bonaparte of the 21st century . but now they may think of louis xvi , the king who paid his life for his mistakes . can you learn macron from his mistakes and gain the confidence of the french voters who have been humiliated ?
and that 's what the economy has gained in the form of unprecedented fiscal stimulus and unthinkable policy measures . as they intervened , american politicians were consulted with their counterparts around the world and urged them to take action . and they did so , they ended up in one of the most successful moments of global policy coordination in history , including advanced and emerging economies . for many , the global economic summit , held in london in april 2009 , marks the point when the economy turned the corner . the change was so remarkable that many policymakers fell into a trap of rapid rebound , especially given the history of economic dynamism and resilience in the us , only to be humbled by what proved to be a lengthy and complex recovery process .
fear is based on itself , and the assumption that stocks will lose value will become self-sufficient . the recession in 2008 triggered a collapse of a bubble in real estate that was the cause of a crisis . the wealth of housing in the area of the city has fallen by 34 % since 2006 , and it is still shrinking . the stock market fell by nearly 50 % from the peak of 2007 , and it is still nearly one-third lower . this huge loss of wealth has caused a significant and sustained decline in demand for consumption , which has led to an increase in unemployment .
for example , the owner of a billionaire american casino sheldon adelson did not buy a las vegas magazine in 2015 , nor did he get the israeli media for money . as the media environment is increasingly expanding , political and corporate responsibility will fall . that 's why the international media center has just released a new report that is focused on this phenomenon - and calls for solutions . free and healthy media are essential for a functioning democracy that is not only good . if we want to protect them , we have to defend them at any cost .
until now , merkel had to deal with a weak or non-existent resistance , and he did not have enough . this change will change very quickly , especially if nato 's troops are allowed to increase . from now on , he will need a trait he has lacked so far : he has a leadership and decision-making ability . in addition , the victory of black and yellow was a different option : red , dark red and green . the political camps of the old - left and right - are now returning .
instead , we need to integrate transport , housing and land use , to encourage public transport , and to ensure that the streets are pleasant and safe for walking ( especially for women and disabled people ) . the fourth task is to change the way we produce , transport and consume energy . this includes the creation of more efficient energy systems and the increase in renewable energy sources ( which , in the hope of creating jobs , will create jobs ) . we can also encourage households to consume less energy and businesses to reduce the amount of energy they spend . fifth , we must reform how to manage water resources and water infrastructure so that this valuable resource can be used several times and in a city scale .
ramallah - the prime minister of israeli binyamin netanyahu certainly has a reason to celebrate . he was almost surprised by the fact that he had won a decisive victory in the election , after his right-wing party had gained a five-seat advantage in the competition for his main rival , the center-left zionist union . it 's likely that the celebration will be short , but it 's going to be over . the way the network has ended this outcome - by giving up its commitment to two-state solutions to palestine and continuing to build construction settlements on occupied land - will certainly have serious political and diplomatic consequences for the island . in recent years , the hardline stance of the network has worsened the international credibility of the island , while persuading the palestinians living in occupied territory that the real deal with israel is impossible .
the early test of the extent to which the kremlin 's commitment to the minsk agreement should be whether it will liberate nadiya savchenko , the first pilot of the ukraine fighters . savchenko has been on a hunger strike in russia for two months , and has been protesting against her illegal incarceration of charges that are even more ridiculous than those for which i have been imprisoned . of course , i hope the new agreement will be over , and it will finally bring peace to the kraine . however , such an outcome is unlikely , since the agreement does not contain any enforcement mechanisms , such as the automatic eviction of russia from the rapid financial transfer system , if it is to recover any aspect of the agreement . simply believing that kremlin 's " goodwill " would be reckless of him .
why waste valuable time in the air , security checks and waiting for our luggage ? before anyone starts cutting travel budgets , we 'll try to understand why we need to move people and not information . thanks to research on inclusive growth and anonymized donation to the center of international development at harvard university , we are beginning to shed light on this mystery . in ongoing work with dany bahar , michelle coscia and frank neffke , we have managed to find interesting stylised facts . more than enough for the population , the volume of business travel is less than proportional to the number of people in the country : the country , which has 100 % more population than the other , is only 70 % of the business .
too many italians shrugged off the lies and mistakes of berlusconi , and they thought he would soon be gone , because he did n't hurt much . but he did n't go , and he did n't hurt a lot of people . we ca n't afford to make the same mistake as we do in the beginning . the price of freedom is , americans like to say , eternal vigilance . if we 're going to face trump , we ca n't get a discount .
and although the government recognizes the need for reform to boost growth , it is all wrong . in particular , president ollanta humala recently received legislative approval of a series of " realistic " procedures to reduce the bureaucracy perceived as a barrier to investments in extractive industries - which should be less dependent on the economy . the new law is seriously weakening the ability of peru to regulate land use , set environmental standards , and limit corporate misconduct by assessing environmental impacts . the peruvian government is now having a serious problem , and it 's not going to happen . beyond the declining peru 's international credibility as a " climate champion " - a picture that some government officials have tried to cultivate - the law threatens the natural environment of peru and economic growth .
the 50a and the government 's response to brazil 's recent protests threaten what paquim is showing : rebirth of freedom and democracy . the problem with president diluted rousseff , who was imprisoned and tortured by the military regime , is that the british know exactly what is at stake . when pundits weigh on emerging powers such as brazil or india , they usually point to an increase in middle class and space in education and connectivity . but they rarely appreciate the structure of democracy and civil society - a relative newness of hard-earned freedoms and a close understanding of tyranny , whether domestic dictatorship or colonial government , means personal freedom . ( still , they do n't notice the role of strengthening women 's power and feminism in development . )
how can nato help you with this , how do you think you 're gon na help me ? directly , he ca n't do anything , indirectly , he can do a lot of things . the fact that we have not only been a military alliance is no longer a matter of fact . instead , it is now a military-political alliance that establishes democratic standards for new members and advocates . no romance government can overlook these standards , and it is not possible to ignore them .
the revolutionary falcon has collapsed , and only a tyrannical rule of corrupt tycoons - effectively mafia - has been purchased by military loyalty to massive cash bonuses and lucrative oil smuggling and drug trafficking . the opponents of the mafia are being pushed , often brutally , and they are not allowed to be involved . as far as political prisoners are concerned , maduro 's venezuela has joined china , cuba and turkey . we might expect president donald trump to limit the repressive procedures of maduro . but trump recognized the leader of the opposition , juan guaidó , as interim leader of the state , after guaidó , with widespread support among venezuelans , and called on a constitutional provision to challenge the legitimacy of maduro .
but efforts to reduce the cost of financing have only limited impact . the weighted average interest rate for non-financial enterprises is still close to 7 % , while economic growth has decreased by 7.4 % over the last three months to 7.3 % in the last quarter . the situation may not be dire yet , but it is far from ideal - especially when chinese authorities are pursuing structural reforms . the pboc is now facing a dilemma that is not going to happen . if it is to further loosen monetary policy - say , by reducing the bank 's reserve ratio - the momentum of restructuring could be lost , and there is no guarantee that additional liquidity will be in the real sector .
the proposal , which was submitted in the context of the 181 judgment , which was divided into palestine in 1947 , would confirm the establishment of a palestinian state and the state of jewish people on the basis of the 1967 border , with mutual agreed border adjustments and security measures . although such an approach would certainly be limited to the demands of the most powerful palestinian , it would accept the parameters we may have expressed by president barack obama . it would also indirectly address the demand of the island government , which the palestinians recognize as a " jewish state . " such a vote would also be addressed by international challenges for bilateral diplomatic relations . instead of closing the door , the redefinition of the state 's bid for the state would provide a palestinian leadership with a symbolic success , including a framework for restoring negotiations - a long-term palestinian demand .
since ongoing changes in production have already started this trend , gates and some of the european parliament have suggested that robots should be taxed for human services . whether this is the best solution now is a big discussion , but it is clear that there will be a compromise . robotics and aural issues will also be deeply ethical for liberal politicians , especially in terms of privacy and security . fortunately , there is a broader political consensus on this issue , rather than taxation . the european parliament has proposed a voluntary code of conduct for engineers and other workers in robotics .
" everything ... everything will change , everything will change , and i 'll tell you everything . " so the refrain is in a famous argentine song , and it 's not going to happen . but in fact , everything stays the same , or it 's even worse . the warning of heraclitus against the bath in the same sea is twice lost in economic ministers who insist on bathing regularly in contaminated waters . whenever they swim , they go the same way , they raise concerns about what happens when arthur pays his foreign debt , and then inevitably pays the debt under strong pressure from the international financial fund and us .
shanghai - as the current international order is gradually expanding , strong global-governance institutions are essential to address the world 's strategic , economic and sustainability challenges . and yet our existing institutions - including the united states - are rarely frailer . the problem is not broken , but it is in difficulty , especially when more countries consider it polite diplomatic considerations and seek solutions to major global problems elsewhere . we have seen this in matters ranging from syria to iran , north korea , terrorism , cyber security , asylum seekers , and refugees , migration , ebola , and emerging crisis in the area of human assistance . although the un has many strengths , it also has clear structural weaknesses in the area .
the decision to launch feb15 on the day of mass protests was apparently taken at a meeting of activists in the social forum of europe in november last year . in ninety days , the organisers have declared that they have reached more than 5 million protesters worldwide . this phenomenon has three keys : i 'm sure you 'll find three keys to it . the internet has allowed the organizational plans to spread rapidly around the world , which are extremely low for organizers . mass action depended on the fact that local organizations had taken the initiative based on a global plan .
how better to remember this decision than to build a building in prison ? the new facility for which the funds are earmarked will be 106 prisoners ( the exact number is not sure ) , who have not been tried or charged . eight prisoners are now entering the second month of the strike , which is a hunger strike . according to a spokesman for the south command , which oversees the gitmo , the hunger strippers are disappointed because they believe obama 's pledge to close the gitmo . indeed , they are allowed to leave , and only obama 's failure to keep his promise - and us congress 's failure to legislative regulations - is keeping them there .
the flow of technologies and innovation : the increase in technology ( and knowledge ) between china and the rest of the world would contribute to the development of global competition , a more productive solution ; reducing flows would undermine global productivity . the world can also decide how to facilitate the flow of technologies that are increasingly subject to security assessments . according to our simulation , $ 8-12 billion could be at stake , depending on how technology is developing innovation and productivity growth . it is important to point out that these decisions are not only chinese , but also the world . for example , by combining the global trade system to strengthen dispute resolution and strengthen inclusion , countries could ensure that increased interest in chinese ( and other ) trade is generally shared .
while greece is still in depression , ieland - which is not in the eurozone - has essentially recovered . as american economist barry eichengreen claimed in 2007 , technical considerations made it difficult , costly and dangerous for the eurozone . but that 's just one side of the book , and that 's the other side . using the ieland as a measuring stick , the cost of not leaving the eurozone is 75 % of the annual budget and counting . i can hardly believe that if greece had abandoned the euro in 2010 , the economic decline would have reached a quarter of that .
as the rumors spread that he had lost the vote , maliki claimed that if he had lost , he would be threatened by state security , noting his responsibility to maintain order . when he lost , he asked for a speech , not as a candidate , but as commander . despite his leadership , maliki was unable to secure a second term seven months after the election , attests to the general opposition to his continued government in iraq 's political class . only one way to explain the decision of the administration to exert diplomatic pressure on iraq 's favourite : obama 's pledge during his presidential election campaign to get rid of iraq during the first term . in this case , obama is following president george w. , who allowed us to choose the election agenda , not america , not to mention iraq 's national interests , dictate iraq 's policy .
in its emphasis on the importance of the signal , the economy enters the post-modernist territory . the signal - in this case , the promise of balance in the books - will create reality . people start behaving as if they were balanced , and they do n't notice they 're not . when you believe the story , you act in a way that will bring it to truth . i do n't think the osborne itself has ever been associated with the signaling effects of his statement .
in response to the dwindling donor funds , the ghanian government has united the leaders of the country 's private sector to set up a ghana malaria base , which is currently working to fill out urgent funding gaps , but it will eventually help to bring a sustainable national effort to eliminate malaria from the country . this is a difficult moment for us to fight malaria , and we will not be able to fight her . but it 's also a moment of opportunity , and it 's a good time . novartis recently announced that he would invest more than $ 100 million in antimalarial research and development over the next five years to help to contain the emerging resistance strains of disease . we are now focused on completing clinical trials for two promising new candidates for antimalarial medicine .
if sunnis believes that shia and the kurds want to act as second-class citizens , they will not be involved in the success of the maliki government , and they will be able to pursue their political interests again , and they will provoke further sectarian violence . worse , the facilitation conflict would undermine further development of iraq 's identity after the saddam . otherwise , the country 's various interests could , as well as the lebanon factions , turn to outsiders to address their problems . in this respect , iraq has good reasons to avoid the example of lebanon . even in the best of times , lebanon muddles with political disfunctionality and military operations in the shadow of a large , controlled military organization .
in 2015 , we had a trade deficit with 101 countries - a multilateral problem caused by a savings deficit , which could not be effectively addressed by " corrective actions for countries . " this does not mean that american trading partners should be allowed to fail to fail to take unfair practices . but that means there is only a small hope of addressing seemingly chronic trade deficits - and related erosion of domestic hiring can be traced to these imbalances - if we do n't start saving again . unfortunately , this plot is about to be thicken , and it 's going to be a long way off . trumponomics are likely to exacerbate america 's savings deficit in the next few years .
the fall of baghdad on april 9 is regarded as a shame , as if it were a day of shame , as if the island had defeated the troops of three arababond countries , and in just six days it had conquered the west bank , the strip of gaza and the east jerjerjerjerjerjerjerjerin . arab intellectuals and the wider arab population are now busy trying to analyse and understand the lessons of the earthquake in iraq . meanwhile , supporters of the former iraqi regime and others are now busy defending the same old totalitarian mindset . their tactics have prevented iraq 's clear assessment of the disaster , and they have suggested that any criticism of the regime of saddam is consistent with supporting the american occupation of iraq . for example , fad al-fanek , former member of the ba'ath party , is now a journalist of the japanese newspaper al-ra .
the lower current-account surplus ( as a share of the gdp ) could , however , be the result of an increase in the income deficit in which it has invested . and , while the recovery of advanced economies increased exports , continued to increase overcapacity , and in 2012 , the domestic economy increased with slower domestic consumption , but it was still rapidly declining . in principle , the country can carry out a current-account deficit or surplus for decades . but china 's chronic surpluses are problematic , and they do n't have to be used . since china remains among the poorest countries in the world , its position is less than $ 7,000 per capita , since the world 's largest exporter of capital is a gross distribution of resources .
madrid - by 29 , according to the network of sustainability organisations , humanity will use the earth 's resources for the year . this " overshoot day " moved forward by two months in the last 20 years , and in 2019 , it will arrive before . although the growing impact of the environment on the environment is manifested in many ways , climate change has the most extensive and long-term effects . carbon dioxide emissions from burning fossil fuels are estimated to be 60 % of the environmental footprint of the population . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish .
the economic boom is the only source of legitimacy left by the state of one party . few people , even a party , still believe in marxism-leninism , let alone maoism . and the general dissatisfaction of official corruption and political oppression has been amputated in all china 's areas in 1989 . the communist government managed to keep in power after the tianmen were not only brutal . the promise of greater wealth was purchased , especially among educated people .
but given the global weakness of pressing housing and infrastructure , this is no longer sustainable . urbanization can be eliminated in many developed economies , but it will continue in emerging countries . the world 's 20 largest cities , 75 % of which are in asia , will need 36 million new residential units by 2025 . in 2014 , it was estimated that 330 million urban homes lived in a sub-standard housing , or had to face financial problems as a result of housing costs ; this number is expected to increase by 440 million . even in a more advanced economy , such as in the united states , more than 40 % of the population of california can not afford a decent housing rate .
berkeley - it is not necessary to be particularly good at hearing the dog whistle , which is used during the election campaign in the united states this year . listen , and you 'll understand that the mexican and chinese are working on wall street to forge a lousy trade agreement that will rob american workers of their legal jobs , and that muslims want to blow them up . all of this fear of mongering is scarier than the usual price of the election year . it is a terrible thing for people in foreign countries to conclude that voters in the world 's only superpower have become dangerously unstable . and it frightens americans who , until recently , believed - or perhaps hoped - that they lived in the republic of america on the basis of tradition established by george washington , abraham lincoln and teddy and franklin rookies .
in this context , the problem is always solved by giving more people who have the greatest political power . professor nicola rossi , an economic adviser to prime minister miassimo d'alema , is expressing his wish to give the father less and more sons . but if unions are strong or older ( in italian terms , they are identical , as the majority of the labor unions are in all labor unions ) , the opposite is happening . this is evidence of the recent budget of italy , which has not been addressed to the pension system or the issue of fiscal reform . here 's a great flood of budget and financial services in italy .
oslo - education is a human right , and it is a human right . and , like other human rights , it is not possible to take it for granted . 59 million children and 65 million young people are out of school . more than 120 million children do n't have a complete primary education , but they do n't have to be able to do it . there are children and children who are denied the right , but the opportunities : a fair chance to get a decent job , escape poverty , support their families and their communities .
small farmers , both women and men , are the biggest agricultural investors in africa . the growth of gdp in agriculture is twice as effective in reducing poverty as growth in other sectors . but farmers from africa face significant obstacles to their potential , and they have no influence on them . on average , the fertilizer is less than 10 kg per hectare compared to 140 kg in the indian language . in addition , less than 5 % of agricultural land is not rigated , and the cultivation of crops is rarely used .
the question is whether the decision-making makers are prepared to use them in the future . of course , most countries " governments are not in the position of the country . but why do governments of developing countries bring their feet to the ground and bring them to the ground ? are the risks so high that they justify the suffering they could have prevented ? food has been sold for 12 years .
of today 's roughly $ 200 billion global financial assets , nearly three-quarters of them are in a debt instrument , including bank loans , corporate bonds and government securities . the derivatives market certainly helps to spread the risk more widely than this superficial calculation , but the basic point is . there are certainly some economic reasons why creditors have such insatiable appetite for debt . the imperfect information and difficulties in the control of businesses pose significant obstacles to the idealized risk-sharing instruments . but the disruption caused by political forces also has a huge role to play .
italian exports to china are currently approximately eur 13 billion ( 14.7 billion ) per year , while imports are approximately eur 29 billion . moreover , the cooperation with china could attract additional capital inflows , which would reduce the need for land , given the limited lending of banks . since 2000 , chinese companies have invested approximately € 14 billion in chinese investments , while chinese businesses have invested € 10.5 billion in 55 countries in the first 10 months of 2018 , and they have signed contracts for projects of british origin worth more than $ 80 billion . however , there are several compelling reasons why this should not be taken down by this bilateral british road with china , but rather deepen the engagement with china in 2016 . for starters , italian interests can not be aligned with china 's interests .
after years of stagnation and even crisis , public patience is weak . of course , many latin american leaders have gained power over the course of decades , and they have promised to leveling the playing field . and their interventions - including redistribution of income , fiscal expansion , and monetary development , protectionism , discriminatory regulation and capital controls - have brought some benefits to the poor . but such measures were often affected by populism , and in the end they hurt more than good . these leaders , based on commodity revenues , were unable to diversify their economy or improve their economic base .
his eloquent resignation was clear that he did not only protest against the syrian blunder , but also about the manner of behavior : the confusion of allies and opponents , his willingness to leave friends , such as kurds , and his alliance , such as nato . mattis 's friends explained in television interviews that what was most concerned about the retired four-star general and defense intellectual was not just that he could no longer affect the policy , but also that the remaining part of the cabinet was taken as a sign of a leap , a position he could no longer bear . even the mighty loyalist , the senate leader of mitch mcconnell , issued a statement on thursday afternoon that he was " distressed " by the departure of matt ( many people believe that mcconnell 's private concern about the effect of trump on the republicans was a major sign ) . members of congress expressed their direct concern about the trump presidency without any guardrail . the list of departures from the administration of trump is not in advance for a long time .
the government has strengthened its security system and has put in place a ubiquitous surveillance system . the visa is denied to anyone who is active in the name of human rights , and the unintended side effects of the injury to international trade in china . but china 's priority is not just to keep economic growth in place , but also to keep it . rather , it is necessary to support growth while protecting its power , which is a monopoly . the regime is designed to prove that china can once again produce a world power , and its voice will be respected .
he will have to become an internationalist left-leaning leader or internationalist right-wing . it seems like only one of them is a tenable option , and it 's not going to happen . traditional policy of center-right would not be compatible with strong internationalist principles . if globalization is to support a popular majority in its various dimensions , it will need to be accompanied by modernized social policies that will help those who need it . this will be more important at the time of continuous economic disruption .
but there is one alternative that would help upset citizens and mitigate the loss of income from direct ban on smoking : evening cigarettes . since e-cigarettes only heat nicotine solutions to produce inhaled fumes , they do not release the carcinogenic tar of cigarette smoke , and they do not create an ideal nicotine-supply system for smokers who seek or are forced to reduce or stop tobacco consumption . in addition to being significantly less damaging than cigarettes , e-cigarettes are domestic products produced in china in 2003 . but despite significant progress in china 's e-cigarette industry - in 2013 , the chinese republic was dominated by 900 producers of equipment , up to 200 % compared to 2012 , and 95 % of global e-cigarette production were involved in this market . as the yanzhong huang of the foreign relations council recently pointed out , " if only one percent of china 's smoking population is turned into e-cigarettes , it will mean a market of 3.5 million e-cigarettes . "
the reason why climate conferences do not succeed is simple : their agendas - which are voluntary and quantitative targets - are fundamentally flawed . it is easy to agree to quantitative targets for reducing emissions at the un conference . but countries automatically consider these objectives to be sacrificed : in an effort to reduce emissions by x tons , we lose a million jobs and the gdp will fall by $ z billion . because there are no real sanctions or punishment for non-compliance , when it comes to pushing , governments can simply change their minds . even if the government is seeking to keep its commitments , say , by introducing new regulations on high-emissions industries , it may not be achieved by desired results .
china offers only 4 % added value , but it supplies the core components of the apple at low prices . apple can not build an iphone from scratch , so it would have to search for other suppliers and significantly increase production costs . this would give chinese companies an opportunity to take part in the market from the main players . today , 80 % of global trade is made up of international supply chains . the decline in trade costs allowed businesses to break down their production lines geographically , with products processed and added value in several countries .
financial economists consider such a cash compensation as a sign of problems in the area of governance . third , a higher part of the salary is associated with a weaker liability for the poor performance . in firms with a high share of ceo pay , the probability of ceo turnover is lower after bad performance ( the control of ceo 's length ) . the lower sensitivity of turnover in performance reflects less willingness from the board to the discipline of the executive board . finally , firms with a higher share of paid salaries are more likely to provide their ceo with grants for the option that are opportunistic .
there is only one euro in the world , despite its diversity , but it is not a common country . any major event will cause an impact on the entire continent , but it will not be possible . if europe is to be one of the european union 's european union , if the european union is to take over the new post-communist democracies , which are in the interest of all europei , it is necessary to carry out a series of vital tasks within the new democracies and in the european union and in the atlantic . at the beginning , europe must support the community of post-communist countries by restoring civil society . for a living society , it is not possible to restructure it from the top .
instead , we must remain firm and united in their policy towards russia . this approach offers the best opportunity to end the current confrontation and force russia to build a building in the west . of course , if cooperation is to work , russia must gain the confidence he has broken , demonstrate his commitment to abide by the contracts and international rules of conduct he has agreed to . if it comes to russia today , the reconciliation will not lead to peace , but to reconciliation will only prolong the conflict . the sooner the west convinces russia 's leaders , the sooner the conflict will be over .
nine times ten , nothing serious - just a little trouble for people or groups . but we risk a tenth of the time ... " today , the creditors of the european union seem willing to abandon their solemn commitments about the irrevocability of the euro , and insist on collecting crumbs from retirees . if they insist on their demands , they will never trust the euro 's longevity . at least the eurozone 's weaker members will be exposed to an increase in the pressure on the market .
it is certainly better to have a plutocracy in which wealth determines the status of the gerontocracy , in which age leads to an upper or even aristocracy , in which it counts for inherited property and property . so it seems that the meritocracy is better , at least in the first sight . but on closer inspection , it 's not so easy to do it , but it 's not so easy . for many , the dance was long the epitome of meritocracy . most of them are not just civil servants and judges , but also politics , trade and academia , who have been graduates of famous grandes .
for example , at america 's most elite universities , only about 9 % of students come from the lowest half of the population . most societies recognize a moral obligation to help young people achieve their potential . some countries even have a constitutional mandate for the equality of education opportunities , and they are not in the same way . but in america , rich students are more educated than poor people . as a result , we are wasting some of the most valuable assets , with some young people - stripped of their skills - who are becoming a dysfunctional activity .
the au has now threatened sudan 's new rulers with a ban on the group , unless they transfer power to the civilian authority . although sudan 's military leaders are under pressure , political stability is far from guaranteed . for decades , le pouvoir used oil revenues to buy a relative public quiescence through massive subsidies . but these reserves were concentrated in the south and were lost in 2011 when south sudan was released . and now it 's not about political stability , and it 's not going to happen .
istanbul - ensuring adequate food rich in nutrients for the expansion of the world population is a challenge , especially given the difficulties associated with key resources such as water or agricultural land . as it stands , the two main approaches to enriching and expanding food in the world are genetic engineering and industrial processing of ingredients and chemicals . the third solution is now being developed : the vertical farming process is in place . studies have shown that local grown vertical farms - stacked greenhouses using artificial lighting to grow crops - can provide considerable savings to consumers . but questions about the basic economy of these farms , especially about commodity crops , have persisted .
it means the problem is that it is a political issue , but it is not a problem . retirees are among the world 's most powerful lobbies in democracy , and politicians are willing to stand up to them in such a fundamental way . we must face the intergenerational issues of today 's economic dilemmas . our pension systems and national budgets must be based on a " generational accounting " that guarantees that economic risks are systematically distributed throughout the generations . this means that pension and tax institutions must be better taken into account by changing circumstances that have been subject to different generations , and not to establish a fixed promise that is most likely to be maintained in the future .
the lower financial costs for public debt appear to be a net profit for society , as the government will then save debt and keep taxes lower . but the lower taxes are more than offset by the loss of private sector , which will reduce the cost of financing , and thus reduce the revenue of government . in recent years , many steps have been taken to strengthen the banking system . but what is proposed will make lending even less attractive to investment and increase the incentive to focus on the state 's risk of banking . this can only worsen the eurozone 's sovereign debt problem and weaken its already meager growth prospects .
in fact , the state of the state of the state was able to obtain support from the euro for unilateral declarations of palestinian . the only obstacle left to the leaders of the palestinian tribes is america 's . when the palestinians asked mitchell for assurances that we would support such a declaration of state , if the talks had not been successful , mitchell replied that such a commitment would not be necessary . instead , americans have their own ideas about how to make progress , especially with israel , which the obama administration believes is now a major obstacle . to change the effect of israel , americans are launching various test balloons .
the commercial numbers behind this business sometimes caused riots until anatomy laws allowed the bodies of executed murderers and unclaimed dead to be used , so they assured the middle and upper classes that their bodies would not be involved . these old tensions have taken on new dimensions , as commercial potential for human tissue is caught by business imagination . but there are few laws to address the use of cells , tissues and genes . the most famous case of the body is john moore 's body , a patient who developed leukemia with hairy cells and had a spleen removed in 1976 at the school of medicine . his doctor had patented some of the chemicals in the blood of moore without knowing or agreeing , he had set up a contract , and he had sold the right to a pharmaceutical company to sell drugs from a cell phone line .
but the germans , who did n't want to be afraid of it , just celebrate one big football party with their newfound friends from all over the world . black , red and gold german triple adorns the country as ever , but there are almost no nationalist undertones . in fact , the flags of many nations are flying alongside the german , and they are flying . in berlin , like other large german cities , taxis are sport flags of home drivers - from angola to saudi arabia . fans do n't just like flags of their nations , but also fantastic costumes evocative from their native countries .
meanwhile , the number of victims of the epidemic has continued to increase in the number of deaths . in order to prevent the outbreak of ebola , the relevant actors must re-engage in the relevant communities and regain their trust . fortunately , as neighbouring rwanda has shown , it is possible to do so . in 1994 , rwanda suffered a brutal genocide in which 800,000 people were killed in a single 100 days . the experience of rowing left behind destroyed property , a failed state , and a traumatised population with minimal confidence in local or international institutions .
at the top of corruption in london , 12 world leaders and representatives of civil society will have a critical opportunity to act on this knowledge . corruption is divided into cultures and in the course of history , and it is a great deal of work . it existed for the government , but , like other crimes , it has grown over the last few decades , and it has had devastating consequences for the wellbeing and dignity of countless innocent citizens . for starters , corruption is cripples the prospects for development , and that 's why it 's not going to happen . if , for example , public procurement fraud is a source of natural resources , or a private sector is monopolized by a narrow network of friends , the population can not be aware of their potential .
the protests began when the government tried to act amnesty legislation , which would reverse the conviction of former prime minister thaksin shinawatra - the brother of yingluck and founder of the ptp , who were toppled by the military in 2006 - for the corruption and abuse of power . ( it would also replace the murder charge , which was filed against the leader of the democratic party , the former prime minister of vejjajiva . ) but yingluck 's subsequent attempt to trace the amnesty measure has not reinforced the opposition . in fact , street protests have intensified , and they have been driven by new complaints . the yingluck government refused to accept the constitutional court 's decision against the bill to change the senate from a half-appointed to a fully elected chamber .
the new chairmen of the european commission , the european council of europe and the european central bank will be appointed and a new representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy will be selected . if the euroskeptic party becomes the biggest member of the european parliament , these appointments could be a sudden departure from the past . member states are now more divided than ever , even in the most important matters of the european project . the general agreement on pro-euro in the past has been replaced by an urgent nationalism . in addition , the east is still more likely to be turned west and north against the south .
free city , sierra - donors such as world health and world health organization often call on developing countries to invest in health care systems . but in a hurry to build clinics and other medical facilities in the remote regions , it may seem like a simple approach to ensuring universal health coverage , but it has not been confirmed . the recent ebola epidemic in western africa has highlighted the need for stronger , more efficient and more resilient health care systems in developing countries . but when countries rush to build more clinics , the resulting equipment is usually hastily built and lacking in equipment , supplies and personnel needed to effectively deliver vital health care services . in my frequent visits to the rural areas of my native country , i have seen more than a few health facilities that could be done by the community .
of course , if william was alive today , he might agree to discuss some of the issues , though his proposal would be different . for example , william would likely agree with the leap that the openness of global markets is too high . indeed , it is difficult for banks and businesses to export capital , technology and jobs , which they do not care about , or even with regard to domestic costs . but the solution of wilson would likely focus on developing and implementing improved regulations by means of multilateral democracies . he would also like to support fiscal policy aimed at improving the common good , with higher taxes on wealthiest businesses and households " financing , for example , infrastructure development , quality education and general health care .
but in 2010 , i think it was a key step toward our subsequent growth , i announced " english optimisation , " a plan to make english english within two years . the aim was to set up a groundwork for global expansion in an industry that aggressively competes with talent from the internet . when i announced an english announcement , only 10 % of our employees were able to handle english . it was n't surprising that some of my people were worried about me , others , especially those outside the company , thought i was a little crazy . but seven years later , the titans of the company 's japan will seek advice on how to build a global brand that has been located in japan 's capital .
but that would only weaken banks " credit portfolios at the time when europe 's regulatory authorities are desperate to strengthen them . the decision of the ecb to provide banks with unlimited liquidity does not solve the problems of debt to the government , nor does it intend to . but at least it will prevent debt problems that will eventually worsen debt problems . the second vicious spiral of europe is from fiscal consolidation to slow growth and return to fiscal consolidation . there is still a need for tax increases and cuts in public spending .
i 'll add an economy to this recipe , too , and i 'll add it to it . price rules and other unbalanced features of europe 's policy contribute to the fact that 60 % of the new drugs are produced in the world , compared to 40 % of them a decade ago . thanks to this sterility and inertia , europe is less interesting for americans . america 's eyes are elsewhere : china with 1.3 billion people , and an economy that is growing by 8-10 % , year by year , year after year , and india , with 1.1 billion people , and 6 % annual growth . india has one of the world 's best engineers , technicians , and medical experts .
but they will probably die much faster if we suddenly contact them and bring us a modern pathogen against which they do n't have antibodies . these tribes may be isolated , but their demise will have serious consequences for them . with respect to - and understanding - nature , such groups serve as environmental protection , 80 % of the diversity of the world and play a crucial role in mitigating climate change and adapting . when the devastating 2004 indian sea tsunami struck , nearly a quarter of a million people died in 14 countries , but two isolated and indian tribes , which were based on traditional warning systems , did not suffer any known losses . but as bolsonaro 's promises are undervalued , the original societies are directly against the lumberjack , the miners , the planters of the plants , the ranchers , the ranchers , the oil hunters , and the other interlopers .
in my earlier professional role , i witnessed the entry of poland and hungary into europe 's institutions . i could see the eagerness and hope of their people at this time . that 's why it 's hard for me to understand what they 're doing today . of course , it is not unreasonable that potholes and hungary , whose sovereignty has largely been largely seized by the soviet union , are especially sensitive to external efforts to shape their decision-making and have a better sense of national identity than other countries . but the rejection of the eu option will not prevent them from being in uncertainty caused by globalization .
no particular country or group has created international maritime law , since it is now in place . it is the result of the collective wisdom of humanity , grown for many years , for the wellbeing of all . today , many of the benefits of humanity depend on the pacific ocean , and the indian ocean is still open . but what exactly does it mean , what does it mean , i do n't know ? if we do not violate the spirit we have used in international law for the ages and reformulate it as three principles , the sea law will become a matter of common sense .
when it comes to sexual violence , it is difficult for individual states to ignore activists ' demands . of course , the effective solution must be taken into account in the context of the local environment . sexual violence can take many forms , understanding its possible purpose can help predict and prevent its use . armed groups , for example , use force as a recruitment tool , are more likely to commit a huge form of sexual violence than those who use other means . moreover , people who live in the shadow of armed groups with genocide objectives pose a greater risk of sexual violence - for example , forced pregnancy .
since the extended union will become a reality within two months , it is necessary to create a concept of cultural understanding that will contribute to the successful integration of new members . some values , long in the eu , should be easily transmitted . a decade ago , members of the maastricht treaty agreed to respect history , culture and tradition of all its members . the proposal , which recently failed to accept the adoption of negotiations , does not only promise to respect cultural heritage , but also obliges the union to actively protect , maintain and develop the wealth of european cultural and linguistic diversity . but europe can only succeed if its different cultures do not close .
if this program is successfully implemented , it is likely that global savings and consumption patterns will be reversed , which have contributed to a significant imbalance in recent years . china is responsible for saving , while we are disproportionately aware of consumption , and the chinese are eventually converted into us creditors . of course , global savings and consumption patterns have changed significantly since the financial crisis . the average household income by 2020 - the target set at the 18th congress of china 's communist party in november - will be released by 64 trillion renminbi ( $ 10.3 billion ) , while china 's huge internal market will gradually become a new long-term driving force of domestic and international growth . this model assumes china will develop its own capital , not just to rely on foreign investments .
i understand the reticence of ding - and her frustration in her mind . i do n't like quotas either , they do n't like my faith in meritocracy . but when you consider the obstacles to achieving the meritocratic ideal , it seems that the world 's most beautiful world must be temporarily mandated . after all , it has been four decades of evidence that businesses in europe and us are avoiding the meritocratic hiring and supporting women to the highest positions - no matter how much pressure they are on them . when women go to the top of the company 's power - such as sheryl sandberg , recently on facebook - they are paying great attention because they remain the exception of the rule .
the new delhi - in 2009 , when i was forced to compete with the last parliamentary election in india , i was a rarity . i did n't want to be a professional politician , but i did n't want to be a professional politician . on the contrary , all the other candidates in my constituency - indeed , most contestants in the country - have devoted their entire lives to politics , many of whom have been their students ' years . i was n't born in a political family , i did n't have a seat or a political talent to inherit , and i entered the race without a political " godfather . " i have n't lived in india for decades , i 've worked abroad for the rest of my life .
but at the end of the experiment , it was n't a good thing to do . the fdp ended the debate with disappointment , as his leader pointed out by christian lindner , " four partners in the discussion do not have a common vision of modernization or common trust . " even without the coalition of jamaica , germany still has a stable liberal majority in the bunker . the same is true for the rest of the place , where nearly all other states are now a 50-50 society : a cosmopolitan , half-communitarian . in these countries , the government is at any time representing the party that won the last round of the ongoing culture war .
for starters , all countries must define the crime of child trafficking online and incorporate them into national criminal law , as well as tough penalties for violent acts . all employment activities , advertising and financial transactions related to the internet trade in children should also be criminal . the issue of education is also crucial - especially in developing countries , in which illiteracy , poverty , and lack of appropriate sex education in schools can cause children more vulnerable . parents have to build bridges of trust so that their children can start to understand their problems . also , the leaders of faith should educate and sensitize their supporters in this regard .
in addition , communities must increase access to contraceptives and other services of sexual health ; one way to do this would be to restore or create a space that would be friendly to you and the centres in which information could be shared . these spaces should be open after school and weekends , and they should be staffed by experienced and sympathetic adults . particular attention should be paid to rural areas and people with special needs , often overlooked by the population of young people . these reforms are essential for improving the prospects of young men 's lives . if more teenagers had access to education and contraception , they would have interrupted the girls ' lives by pregnancy .
many of them are low-income workers who would otherwise be unemployed , and they would not be able to work . this suggests that economic growth - and thus employment - would reduce the number of workers employed independently . independent work , however , is likely to take into account the growing share of work in the long term , owing to technological advances and individual preferences . while the digital platforms for independent work are still in the early stages of their development and are only used by 15 % of independent workers , they are rapidly expanding and expanding . mckinsey estimates that 30-45 % of the population 's working hours would prefer to earn income , whether primary or secondary , from independent work .
the demand for the abolition of censorship was one of the first political slogans of polish march . he asks for freedom of assembly and right to organize the negotiations with him . in principle , the protesters did not demand the free choice of the election . they were real , but they demand a measure of civil control over the government , both in political and economic terms . one slogan was : " no bread without a free hand . " " no bread . "
the new port - in a desperate final act , central banks abdicate effective control of economies entrusted to them . first , there were no interest rates , then quantitative easing , and now negative interest rates - one vain attempt to get another . as the first two games failed to gain a significant economic boost in chronically weak recovery , the transition to negative rates would only be limited to the risk of financial instability and the next crisis would be set . the adoption of negative interest rates , which were initially launched in europe in 2014 , and which was now accepted in japan , is a major turning point for central banking . previously , the emphasis was placed on increasing aggregate demand - mainly by reducing the cost of loans , but also by reducing the effects of wealth from appreciating financial assets .
as a result , demand is now falling below any binding pressure that would be imposed on you . the price of permits fell below eur 3 per tonne in april 2013 , so the market for emissions trading was almost irrelevant . this has supported greater reliance on highly polluting coal - the worst source of energy from global warming . this would not happen if the price mechanism was still underpinned by the climate change policy . moreover , the policy of renewable energy sources in eu has proved to be extremely costly .
the task that will face the imf is a formidable task , and it is a great task . of course , it will be important for the fund to focus on global imbalances , not on bilateral imbalances . in multilateral trading systems , bilateral trade deficits are often balanced by bilateral surpluses with other countries . china may want oil from the middle east , but those in the middle of the east - with so much of the wealth that they concentrated in so few hands - could be more interested in ucci 's bags than in chinese products . china can thus have a trade deficit in the middle east and trade surplus , but these bilateral balances do not indicate the overall contribution of china to global imbalances .
most americans ( 55 % ) said they had experienced stress during the day , almost half ( 45 % ) said they were worried about it , and in five ( 22 % ) they felt much anger . " stress , worry and anger have hit us for 10 years , so we 're in 2018 . the population was seven - the most stressful in the world in 2018 , less stress than in the greenback , philippines and iran , but more stressed than in uganda , turkey and venezuela . these stress measures are consistent with another notable conclusion : in 2018 , america 's self-declared happiness was also reduced . the gallup asked how they would be able to assess their lives on a scale from zero ( the worst ) to ten ( the best life ) , the americans in 2018 responded with an average of 6.9 , from 7.0 to 2017 , and 7.3 during 2006-2008 .
the written code - emphasizes the commercial benefits of ethical behaviour and negative consequences of a short fall - is part of this effort , which may contribute to maintaining and strengthening culture ; however , the code itself is not enough . the constant reminders of the condition and repetition of the text are essential . employees must instinctively understand what they can do , and what they should never be done . they must internalize culture that values strict adherence to high ethical standards . to that end , banks should make their values and cultures an integral part of their employment , firing and promotion decisions .
islamabad - a century ago , women in the united kingdom gained the right to vote , and today most women in developed countries are allowed to vote . but in many developing countries , resistance to british suffragettes has persisted a century ago , rooted in the wrong . this is certainly true in pakistan , where the general election , which is set for july 25 , offers an ideal opportunity to promote change . at first glance , pakistan seems to be moving in gradually , and it is not a good idea . since 1956 , women have been allowed to vote , for nearly a decade after the independence of britain .
in some cases , the result was unexpected : some lending rates have actually increased . it should have been clear that most of the models of central banks before the crisis - both formal models and mental models , which lead politicians to the point of view - were wrong . no one predicted the crisis , and few economies seemed to be fully restored . the rate of interest increased twice in 2011 , as the eurozone crisis deteriorated , and unemployment increased to double numbers , and the euro was increasingly weakening . they continued to use old discredited models , perhaps somewhat altered , but they did not know what to do .
but mao 's death ended at least the era of caesarism in china . because he did n't have a son , mao appointed a five-person politburo to do it . his members , including his nephew , mao yuinin , his mistress , zhang yufeng and jiang qing , were as incompetent as he was , but after the catastrophe of the cultural revolution , they were too much of a hostile stance in the military and other state institutions . they and the four ( of which jiang qing was a member ) soon lost . china 's move from caesarism to despotism and then marxism to capitalism was fortunate for china 's citizens .
we in the kraine have learned this truth from the harsh experience of the communist era . although communism could sometimes exist with private property and sometimes private property , it would never be coached with civil society . the most fatal attack to accompany the installation of dictatorship is an attack on civil society . in ukraine , freedom of speech was restored overnight after communism . but the recovery of civil society - many complementary ways to which citizens are involved in public life - is a complex task , as people of egypt and tunisia will soon be able to find out .
then imagine that intelligence agencies have confirmed that there has actually been an attack , despite the alleged denial of vomiting . finally , imagine how trump might have answered , and how he would have done it . would he call pug to ask what 's going on ? - what 's going on ? and would it be possible to make another " incredible offer " to help investigators get to the bottom ? and more importantly : would he quickly invoke the principle of collective defense under article 5 of the nato agreement ?
but these external risks do not mean that global growth is not necessarily a grim prospect . the baseline scenario for us is still very strong , and we are still in a position to grow . the growth of europe could also be above the trend , as it is continuing to slow down the debt crisis at the start of the decade . and china 's economy has proven that doubters have been wrong for many years . so it turns out that the next year , it could be a year of solid global growth .
the case was won by the eugene scalia , the son of the highest court court antonin scalia , against the second court in the appeal proceedings , the circuit , the circuit , the technical aspect - the second did not carry out an analysis of the cost of the benefits before the time . this small victory has become a major defeat for shareholders , when the second time , instead of carrying out such an analysis and proposing the rule , it has decided to stop . last december , i asked the chairwoman mary schapiro when she was planning to reintroduce the rule . i even offered to do an analysis of costs and benefits for free of charge . but she admitted that the second had many other things to do with the agenda , and she put the problem on the back burner - polite to say that the second , like the heroic students in the square of the tianmen , gave up under irresistible pressure .
it 's not normal , but it 's not a normal time , but a lot of things are normal . indeed , the monetary policy of the fed population was not enough to prevent a recession , but it is still so mild that many doubt that it is entitled to be a real animal . the response of the central bank to the euro was similar to the response of the fed , but less energetic , with monetary policy simpler than the main rate of inflation . and in the western part of europe , the gdp is now declining . in short , the main banks on both sides of the atlantic have responded to the financial crisis , but they have not responded .
when the opposition tried to challenge these inconsistencies , the eck suddenly declared the winner . a few days later , the head of the eck publicly recognised that kibaki supporters had pushed him to announce the " results " immediately , despite clear evidence of the vote . amazingly , he said he did n't know who he was winning , and he did n't know . observers from the eu eu eu eu also announced that the number of elections did not meet the basic international standards . the election is a disaster for kenya , but the response of the international community , led by us , is no less disturbing .
moreover , a number of problems related to the risk premium are difficult to interpret . it is no surprise that surveys of inflation expectations in households and businesses are more accurate . since market measures currently conflict with most of the key economic data , they should not be too much . it is also true that the current global trade tensions have hit the eurozone producers , especially in germany . but monetary policy is difficult to respond to barriers to trade .
however , pharmaceutical companies are still holding assumptions about the boundaries of cooperation before competition , which must be contested . at first glance , it seems to me that companies would like to share data and , where appropriate , to give up competitive benefits . however , this assumes that the ownership of such data actually constitutes an advantage of competition and that the " closed " model is financially sustainable . drugs that make it market must be financed by the costs of the failure of those who have not reached the market . as the latest reports of morgan stanley have pointed out , the current success rate of the pharmaceutical industry is not sufficient to sustain large internal organizations of r & d , which make the current economic model of the industry financially unprofitable .
although the irish government could be deterred from using nuclear weapons , the price of nuclear weapons could be a regional weapon race - nuclear saudi arabia , possibly followed by turkey and egypt . nuclear weapons , components and materials in the area that are already volatile and violent . the market has already taken the measures of the tensions of the last week , which have increased the price of some oil contracts to the highest levels in eight months . trying to force an iran to retreat with a growing penalty has not resulted in results . despite the tightening of the economic loop - we have imposed sanctions on all companies that are dealing with the central bank of ireland , and the european union 's union is planning to impose sanctions on the export of irania oil at the end of the january - many nuclear experts now estimate that uranium is close enough to enriching enough uranium to build a bomb .
this charge , which is strongly supported by countries whose financial sectors are torn apart after the crisis , is difficult to swallow instead of states that have not intervened in bail . the fee is an easy way to spread the financial and political costs of the crisis from some to all members . if this is true , bank capital will be more limited , the flow of credit will be slower , and banks will be higher in countries with relatively stable financial sectors , as others have spent enough money on their financial systems , and as europe 's commission will never miss the opportunity to unify the rules . the same is true for example for the trading system of derivatives , for example . the harmonisation of the post-crisis crisis situation in this area means that , instead of taking account of currency volatility or unexpected changes in interest , it will be more costly .
at & t , scholarships are offered by partner institutions that are not profit and provide paid internships for up to 100 graduates . the san francisco francisco start-up , which has funded some of the biggest venture capital companies in silicon valley , is developing a partnership with employers to offer online training modules that connect job seekers to specific jobs , especially places that do n't require college education . employers are stepping up the bill and they expect to be helped by the adoption of applicants with higher quality . and , indeed , when candidates are finished , they will be able to provide an interview with potential employers , which already contain several large companies . the california community 's college system is already working with the students to gain access to the skills needed to fill out local jobs .
porto - a military coup that has toppled the first democratically elected president of egypt and led to the arrest of muslim brotherhood leaders across the country is a great danger not just for the democratic transition of the ego , but also for democratic hopes of the entire arab world . the fact that a coup has been carried out with a huge public support is a sign of the huge difficulties faced by the muslim brothers during the first turn of power . president morsi 's government has struggled to address the inherited economic and social crisis that has caused the 2011 revolution , and its protagonists have not only sought freedom , but also economic development and social justice . of course , the muslim brothers were also the victim of their own mistakes , especially the failure of the morsi and the government to reach the secular opposition , whose elements contributed to the election . the morsi government did not seem to understand that a slim electoral majority is not enough , especially today .
paris - this month , the trial of simbikangwa , accused of complicity in genocide in rwanda , in which 800,000 people were killed between april and julie 1994 , began in paris . unfortunately , mass killings in africa continue to be carried out in the wake of the war . in the south of sudan , the latest state of africa , there are still a mass of civilians , especially in the city of bbor . and the french military intervention in the central african republic has not ended with serious inter-communal violence . paradoxically , even if these episodes continue to occur in africa , perhaps even more than anywhere else in the world , the continent has become a beacon of hope .
moreover , with growing concerns about sustainability in fiscal policy , the euro has a great opportunity to play a significantly greater role in the currency of reserves . one shudders in the idea of what will happen if europe fails to get out of the current crisis . of course , europe would lose its traction as a poorly needed counterweight to the world 's economic policy . europe does n't have to mind now ( you see more of the same t-shirts in europe than in us ) , but they might not be happy if george bush came along . fortunately , the europeans will probably not wait so long to begin to move forward .
this means that growth should not be concentrated until the gap between the deflation is significantly reduced - until now . the third arrow is not a traditional approach based on industry policy , but also on the principle of development . on the contrary , it emphasises reforms of the labor market , deregulation and reduction in corporate tax . the main element of the abe growth strategy is to expand the workforce - a major challenge , given that japanese society is rapidly aging . one logical solution would be to incorporate foreign labor into the japanese economy .
the vacuum , which has left sharon 's departure from politics , is certainly more striking in the light of the chaos emerging from the gaze that israel has released , and the collapse of the palestinian authority in front of our eyes . and the next providential figure will not be easy to get out of it . not all exceptional periods create their bonapartes , and this is probably good , because exceptional leaders can give the impression that all problems have a solution that is far from true . the natural course of history , which is most optimistic , is progress " at the edge , " but the rapid pace of technological change is forcing us to expect the same rapid progress in human affairs . many of us believe that such an impossible bet can only be achieved by a providential man with all hope and danger that this means .
so , while cameron government support for deeper eurozone integration , the eurozone can not and will not be created from outside and under british interests . uk can not prevent member states from deeper integration , given that most other member states " political will move forward . the negotiations on " fiscal compact " should have proved to cameron that the so-called national veto was difficult . the uk has played a major role in the design of key eu policies , including measures concerning the single market , support for development abroad , trade and climate change . uk leadership in these areas is highly valued - and if the british decide to leave , it would be highly missed .
but they will blame us for not understanding the war in the larger part of the world . it is clear that the obama administration did not know what it was , and did not think about what would be next , but called for assad to be removed in 2011 . in the year , robert and robert , the ambassador to syria , were sent to the hama sunnians , where asad 's father ordered the massacre 30 years ago . according to the state department , the visit was to " express our deep support for the syrian people 's right to gather peacefully and express themselves . " did the government really not anticipate that assad - like his father before him - would respond to a popular insurgency with violence ?
beijing - after years of intervention in the management of the renminbi exchange rate , china 's central bank , china 's chinese bank ( pboc ) , is under pressure to move the currency . but it will not be easy to balance the balance between loosen the grip of the exchange rate and maintaining monetary stability . all economics students learn the formula of magic , according to which the economy can not maintain a fixed exchange rate , free movement of capital and independent monetary policy at the same time . if a country with fixed exchange rates and open equity accounts increase monetary policy , the increase in domestic interest rates will encourage participants in the market to borrow foreign currencies and convert them into domestic currency investments in domestic assets . the resulting capital inflows would cause increased pressure on the currency , forcing the central bank to maintain the exchange rate stability , intervene in the sale of domestic currency , especially for dollars , until interest rates and cash supplies return to its original value .
the presidential candidate for the clinton candidate has a more targeted proposal : 15 % tax credits for profits that companies have divided into workers over two years . by providing temporary tax relief , the scheme would help companies to offset administrative costs in establishing a profit-sharing programme . in order to reduce the cost and prevent abuse , the profits totalling more than 10 % of the salary of an employee would be excluded ; the total amount offered to each undertaking would be reduced ; the guarantees would be reduced against the replacement of the profit share for the wage , the increase and the other benefits would be established . the tax credit could also support changes in corporate culture , which would encourage discussion at the level of the board not only about the benefits of sharing profits , but also the sharing of information and decision-making bodies with employees . stagnant incomes of most workers are undermining economic growth in demand ( discouraging household consumption ) and supply ( by negative impact on educational opportunities , development of human capital and innovation ) .
most russian people do not see a link between prosecution of key figures and the credibility of the authorities . on the contrary , it seems that people with putin 's message show that the establishment is finally dealing with corruption . but it is a message for russia 's shaken elites , which is more important . and the message is clear : no one is safe against the prosecution , even if - like abyzov and isaac - they have withdrawn from public service and have no influence . moreover , selective repression has become more severe , and it is difficult to resist .
it also supported the commission 's successor , a high-level expert group , which focused on measuring economic performance and social progress . last week , in the sixth world forum on the oecd , on statistics , knowledge and politics in india , the group issued a report that was not important to the economy and social performance . the new report highlights several issues such as trust and uncertainty , which were only briefly addressed by mismeasuring our lives , and using several others , such as inequality and sustainability . and it explains how many of the lack of metrics led to inadequate policy . better indicators would show a highly negative and possibly long-term impact on a deep post-2008 decline in productivity and wellbeing , and in which the political leaders would not be so envious of austerity that would reduce the budget deficit , but would reduce the national wealth , which would be more appropriate .
seventy-three years ago , john maynard keynes thought of reforms and financial markets in terms of the first three objectives , and found himself " being moved to ... mak . " but he immediately withdrew : " the fact that every individual investor is referring to his commitment is liquid " ( although it is not possible for all investors to be together ) calms his nerves and makes him more willing to risk ... " moreover , for keynes , " [ t ] he is a professional investment game intolerably boring and too demanding for anyone who is completely exempt from gambling instinct , while the one who has it must pay for it is a tendency to pay the appropriate amount ... " for these reasons , we seemed frozen for the last two generations , whenever we were planning to reconstruct our financial regulation . and that 's why we are frozen today , even in the face of a serious financial crisis .
perhaps the most shameful example is that us import rates of ethanol are $ 0.54 per gallon , while oil is not subject to oil , and only $ 0.5 per gallon of gasoline tax . this contrasts with a subsidy of 0.51 cents per gallon , which we companies ( a large part of which is only one undertaking ) receive ethanol . foreign producers can not compete if their costs are not less than $ 1.05 per gallon . the huge subsidies meant that we were the world 's biggest producer of ethanol . despite this huge advantage , foreign companies can still be able to get to the american market .
the results have not only caused conflicts between federal law and state law , but also signal a shift in attitudes that are not similar to those of same-sex marriages . but equally important was the reaction of president barack obama to colorado and washington 's votes - both say he easily won in his election bid . legal and political issues suggest that marijuana remains an illegal substance under federal law and international conventions adopted by america . in other matters - especially immigration - obama rejects the rights of states and insists on federal authorities . moreover , the issue remains highly sensitive : the public opinion polls in 2012 first show a small majority of the support for legalization , but opponents are still in the vehement .
the result was disastrous , as ethnic rivalry increased , and the number of people who had been on the market was still growing . whatever else is said about such authoritarian regimes , the backsight of the social stability of the ivory coast , which was seen on the ivory coast by the 1980s , is no doubt the benefits of the former colony . the political burden of 1999-2000 resulted in a new constitution of " democratic " that became a civil war challenge . regional and religious tensions have grown since houphouet 's death , and they have been reinforced by the new constitution that has caused ethnic discrimination . about four million northerners were denied political participation or property rights as they were descendants of immigrants from neighbouring countries .
they are highly educated people who know that knowledge is a powerful , clear agenda , and they use the benefits of europe 's education as a responsibility for the national governments , not the brussels-based institutions . these governments want to create an educational system that will decide which areas of research are necessary and socially important . in the long run , the state is likely to also want to provide political loyalists with the right to provide and transfer knowledge . in other words , access to knowledge will cease to be a civil right to access . political reliability will determine who can teach and study what is happening in the country and in the past .
dubai - globalization , as many have recently observed , is in retreat . despite all the undeniable benefits , it has caused problems in governance and management that have been exposed to the lack of adequacy of national governments and international institutions . this has left people everywhere , rich and poor , and they have fought to deal with problems - from countries that have failed to succeed , from overfishing to unemployment , climate change to economic stagnation - which globalization has contributed , but it can not effectively address . fragile institutions have caused political backlash and the danger of disaster in many fronts . mark leonard , the european council of foreign relations and the vice-president of the world economic forum on geo-economics , noted that interdependence has also become a threat .
london - for two decades , chinese diplomacy has been governed by the term " peaceful rise . " but china needs a new strategic doctrine today , as the most important aspect of the recent victory of sri lanka on the tamil tigers is not its overwhelming nature , but china has provided president mahinda rajapaska with military supplies and diplomatic coverage needed to prosecute the war . without the chinese support , rajapaska 's government would not have had a choice of where he would not be able to ignore the world 's views in his attack on tigers . thus , china has not only become a central factor in all aspects of the global financial and economic system , but it has now demonstrated its strategic effectiveness in the region , traditionally beyond its orbit . on the battlefields of sri lanka , china 's " peaceful rise " was completed .
if the euro was interrupted and the default of the gipsic countries , the germany would lose approximately € 545 billion , almost half of the total amount mentioned , as the bundesbank carried out most of the net payments on behalf of the gipsic countries , which are reflected in the target balance . germany has the biggest exposure to the crisis countries in the eurozone , which is why it helps to mitigate austerity in more than in other countries . george soros underestimates the risks of mutating debt to the eurozone 's future . when alexander hamilton , the first finance minister , mutated state debts in 1791 , decided to strengthen the new american state . but the mutualization of debt has caused considerable moral hazard and has caused states to borrow too much .
hong kong - looking back at 2016 , he does n't seem to be celebrating much . as far as global health is concerned , this year seems to be one of the most persistent tragedies . behind the stories of hospitals in the conflict zone , the zika virus was emerging as a growing threat . in addition , the spread of microbes resistant to antibiotics or superbugs continued to revive yellow fever and restore polio polio in nigeria , which previously had been declared polio without polio . the hope of a vaccine against the respiratory system of the syncytic virus was destroyed .
in order to ensure the equity of banking , these precedents and existing institutions point to a way forward . history also shows that financial exclusion is a permanent problem in the absence of universal service requirements . during the new period of trade , regulators included functional equivalent requirements for banks and rifts . but these mandates were removed during deregulation in the 1980 " s , and banks quickly started to move from low-cost financial services to high-profit activities . this dynamic development of consolidation and sectoral cuts , which has accelerated since 2008 , has reduced access to low-income services .
after all , the island government did not only allow allegedly unapproved outpost posts , but also provided water , electricity , internet and military protection . this was n't lost to all of us , it was n't for all of us . in april 2014 , secretary of state john kerry told us that direct negotiations between israel and palestine were " poof " when israel announced 700 new residential units on the west coast . by december 2016 , obama allowed the un security council to vote on the resolution of the trumps , which declared that the building of the island 's settlement was a " major obstacle " to two-state solutions . it is not difficult to imagine what palestinian negotiators must have felt when they were driven by massive settlements on the territory they were working on , and they were independent .
across europe and america , men in black ties and women in kenzo and armenia robes are once again pilgrims to places like bayreuth , glyndebourne and glassy glass . again , state coffers are tapped to support these privileged benefits . perhaps it is time to ask again the basic question : should the state continue to provide generous subsidies for such an elite activity ? consider it unquestionable beauty and spiritual depth : the roman 's catholic mass . does his grandeur mean the state should support him , do n't you think ?
the main characteristic of integration into foreign policy is that governments do not know what they are seeking . in the case of defense and war , the unpredictability includes the possibility of dying young men in action . it is therefore no surprise that integration in foreign policy has not progressed much . this contrast highlights the fact that the great achievements of integration in eu have taken place in the territory of this non-human nation , which lies between the complete independence of the state and the complete loss of sovereignty in the federation . but foreign policy , as we know , is essentially a manifestation of state or superpower .
we 're facing a $ 100 million deficit in a new school year , and we 're not going to miss it . without further support from the international community , we will not be able to observe it - despite strong political will and rigorous planning . lebanon is often struggling to gain funds because of its status as a middle-income country , but this brand is misleading , since it does not take into account serious structural shortcomings that preceded the syrian crisis , or the large proportion of residents of the population of the refugees from syria , the palestine and iraq , who live in poverty . one thing i hope to clarify at the top of the oslo education is that it is necessary to help countries affected by instability and conflicts . i 'm grateful to donors who have been with us since the beginning .
what does this tell us about human nature and how we can live wisely or ethically ? of course , part of the problem is that we make decisions that we do n't do otherwise . only anorexic decided to eat ice cream once a week , and only a worker decided to spend more time on television . so we use the opportunity to change behavior in a new year , which may be the most difficult thing to do . this makes it possible to make a different option than the failure of the system .
the second conclusion , which is to be drawn from the present situation , is that the feed has now overestimated the economy 's strength for 11 consecutive years . the basic mathematics dictates that credible forecasts should be overestimated at least half and underestimated half . if every year of feeding was a coin toss , we would have had eleven heads in one line and zero tails . the odds of this happening are 1 : 2 : 48 , and that 's the probability of this happening . the feed must be clearly examined in a deep way by its methodology and policy processes .
any study to determine whether there is a overdiagnosis of psychiatric disorders will be found that some patients with this disease are not re-investigated . this is the nature of an imperfect reliability of the diagnosis of a psychiatrist . the question is not whether some patients who had previously been diagnosed do not appear to have had it in the re-interview , but how many . how high the percentage should be before the application of excessive diagnosis is a significant problem and a judgment in value . but we think the threshold for clinical importance exceeds 50 % .
in many of the previous banking crises , the country or the area hit hard ( argentina , jaunt , etc. ) . this time , virtually every economy is suffering from a serious crisis , and the banking crisis is global . politicians will continue to throw ammunition at the problem , but it will take time to get rid of the boom and run the course . politicians are struggling to find solutions at times of serious economic distress , and some people lose their confidence in the economic system themselves . indeed , in the midst of a large depression of the 1930 " s , western intellectuals were common to turn into communism and central planning as a hope for panacea .
washington , dc - this year , steve bannon 's extensive european travels in europe have not attracted as much attention as possible , given that he is the main theorist of us , president donald trump , who has signed a nationalism brand . bannon is now seeking to build a federation of nationalist parties in europe . and yet one wonders how ideologue " america can carry out its political project anywhere other than america . " by joining the french far-right leader of the marine corps - she is an open supporter of russian president van van van bannon - it seems to me that the new kind of neo-nationalist international has been thinking . as other countries turn into " nationalist autocracies " and " illiberal democracies " under the strongman rule , nationalism is becoming an ideological common denominator .
one famous incident in the late 18th century was the british mission of lord macartney to the chinese court . macartney refused to comply with chinese imperial protocol by rejecting the emperor 's request , as he did not have to do the same with his ruler . this was also a case of " keeping a face " : the chinese expected a tribute ; the british lord insisted on the same status as his king . as a result , the mission has been canceled , and the mission has been cancelled . diplomatic immunity from the local indictment was the idea that it was immediately followed by another incident , nearly a century ago , when it was arrested by a russian aristocrat and rey matveyev , who represented the great in london .
if not , the loss of a bond would be more than just a reprieve of the extra interest he had received , even if the rates remained unchanged for five years . here 's how the arithmetic works for an investor who will spend ten years of bonds for another five years , and each year will earn 2 % more than he would have invested in cash bills or bank deposits . assume that the interest rate for 10 years of bonds will remain unchanged for another 5 years , and then increase from 2 % to 5 % . during these five years , an investor will receive 2 % of each year for a total of 10 % . but when the interest rate is 10 years old , it will increase to 5 % , the price of the bond will fall from 100 to 69 .
only political and economic consequences in the world , the world 's most industrialised countries , which remain the world 's most important consumers , can change global scale . the change must begin in the transport sector , which accounts for more than half of the current oil consumption , which may increase in the future . the g-8 countries should therefore agree that they will no longer be able to obtain new oil vehicles from 2025 . this decision would not be directed against individual mobility , but against the dispersal of a limited amount of resources that are more urgently needed to produce synthetic materials . political leaders should not be able to use any technology that would be a priority .
ithaca - we president donald trump has managed to turn the facts on his head again . in the context of a broader effort to take china into the role of " raping " the united states economy through unfair trade policy , it has now reinstated its allegations that the country is manipulating its currency to gain an advantage in exports . such a statement is as dangerous as it is not even made up of reality . do n't make a mistake : trump 's allegations of chinese currency manipulation are not substantiated by facts . on the contrary , the chinese bank ( pboc ) has been in currency markets for two and a half years , and thus has not been able to reduce the value of the renminbi in the dollar .
the new delhi - last month , when two indian states and the national capital were held to ransom by robbing crowds of protesters against the conviction of their spiritual leader about the rape of the underage , many indians encountered several painful truths about their country . the leader who rejected these protests is a singh , one of the most important of the " gods , " or the self-proclaimed spiritual leaders who thrive on the india . the flamboyant , jewelled singh calls himself a gurgling ram rahim in an inner part - a mixture of backpacks , muslim and sikh names , followed by a word for " human " in the back of the hindi , punjabi and urdu . and he has a reputation for sexually abusing his followers of the women 's men . in 2002 , two followers had gathered the courage to press charges against them .
on the contrary , some american politicians still believe that ian would leave its enrichment program if only the european union imposed unilateral sanctions . but a clear analysis of the behaviour of the irish president , mahmoud ahmadinejad , suggests that sanctions for eu would lead to a greater diversion of trade , china , russia , turkey , or dubai , which would benefit from reduced levels of exports from europe to ireland . of course , some imports would be more expensive for ireland , but the economic impact of these sanctions would remain limited . in any event , ahmadinejad would not miss the possibility of using unilateral propaganda measures - claiming that ian is not in conflict with the international community , but with imperialist states seeking to deprive the country of technological progress . for these reasons , the euro is seeking a new resolution of the security council , even if its measures are weaker than the one that the united states or the eu committee could impose unilaterally .
no one could identify with political elite as abe , grandson of the wartime government , and later prime minister and son of a foreign minister . and yet he shares the right populists ' enmity to liberal academics , journalists and intellectuals . the post-war japanese democracy was influenced by the intellectual elite of 1950 and 1960 , who consciously sought to divert japan from its wartime nationalism . abe and his allies are trying to suppress the influence of the force . his efforts to revise the pacifist constitution of japan , restore pride in the war record , and discredit the mainstream media , such as the left-wing newspaper asahi shimbun , earned him praise on the former strategist donald trump , stephen bannon , who called " trump before the fall . "
ensuring the good performance and loyalty of local consumers requires a good and good picture of the public . on the contrary , african countries often see the worst side of international affairs : energy , mineral and valuable metal companies go where resources are available , not where they are pleasant to work . as one of the former mining managers told me , " the aim is always easy : get the property out of the country and get out of it as cheaply as possible , and with the same little fuss as possible . " why should businesses improve local skills or otherwise help the host economy ? however , the potential relationship between sub-saharan africa and global corporations is not so limited .
the first big city to boom was london , who started in 1996 . boom mentality spread to los angeles , new york , sydney around 1997 , paris in 1998 , miami , moscow , and shanghai in 2001 and in 2002 . these and other cities have been booming since then , and prices have increased by at least 50 % since 2000 . this was a big windfall for owners , but it hurt anyone who wanted to buy it . in some of these cities , growth in domestic prices is weakening , and the price of these cities is rising .
the government employs a series of new legal regulations , a shadowy police force on the internet and a powerful national system of hard information filtering . the control is also based on the demographic of internet users , most of whom are part of china 's economic elite , and are more likely to be taken into the internet by the internet in a newfound lifestyle than the tool for political or social revolution . it is surprising that the control mechanisms of the government have been largely effective in the future . but it also encourages deep social changes that are rooted in the growing awareness of the rights of society , which are exacerbated - and reinforced - not just by economic growth , but by the rapid expansion of the internet . after two decades of market reform , chinese citizens are increasingly aware of how to protect their economic and social interests by using their rights .
this european policy is missing the second key element of madison 's scheme : diversified political representation at federal level . within the framework of the national states , regions and groups of special interest are represented . but , although common causes of europe are emerging every day , they do not have a political representation throughout the eurozone . no political party or politician in brussels can claim to be a member of the interests of the european citizens , since no one has had to compete with public support throughout the european union . as a result , representatives of the national election are responsible for making a decisive decision at the level of eu-free .
is there anything else that can be asked about the president , really ? and yet we are leading the presidential campaign , which is usually neglected by discussion about advisers or intellectual influences . although the president 's advisers may change , it is thought that candidates will acknowledge them , if only they suggest where their ideas come from , and in fact , what they sell is their ability to judge and manage their expertise , not their own economists . but this time , however , there was no mention of a deep economic thinker or a specific economic model . obama initially had a special group of economic advisers , including lawrence summer , christina rogmer , austan goolsbee and cass sunstein .
for others , they will have to make their own , separate contribution , and they will be able to make a difference . they ca n't just wait for america to move , and they ca n't always try to calm washington 's preferences . in short , they will have to make their own efforts to keep their efforts . it is difficult to determine what this significant contribution could be , but it is difficult to determine . after all , only the fact that we play a second fiddle in the rain prevents members from being clearly and loudly distanced from the suppression of israel in the west bank and gaza , although such a stance would help strengthen the commitment of the arab states to the coalition against terrorism , and would also help to put america 's diplomatic diplomatic forces in place .
one reason is that a small number of patients are making it difficult to study disease and test drugs . medical professionals do n't know much about the symptoms and biology of these diseases . i was involved in a program of rare diseases in california this year . the subject was a vague but large collection of diseases caused by a particular genetic error - one that is carried out in cells that chemically bind sugars to proteins and lipids . there is no known known cause of mutations that cause congenital disorders , and treatment is only for several .
markets are rigged , justice is becoming a transactional one , and politicians are selling themselves to the highest bidder . in time , this " culture of corruption " will be permeated by society . in ukraine , even universities are at risk : the degrees are regularly purchased and sold . although corruption is more of a symptom than a cause of ukraine 's problems , corruption culture must be root before improving conditions . one might assume that this simply requires a strong state with a means to eradicate corrupt politicians and businessmen .
no one should expect a moratorium on the expansion of the settlement , and no one should expect it . on the contrary , the settlement offers a cheaper housing than the island , and thus one of the main economic problems of the middle class of the country . " red lines " in the island are a way of mutating into lines drawn into sand , which are then invisible in the wind . the fragile balance of the new government is only reinforced by this sober interpretation of the situation . in israel , obama will meet the country that has indeed moved , but not to the missing center .
as a result , the ratio of tax revenues to total spending in this financial year has fallen below 50 % for the first time in the history of the japan post-war war period . if the government continues on this path , many expect that the budget deficit will increase further . despite the weak position of japan 's fiscal position , the japanese government bonds market remains stable . in the 1990 " s , japan had similar experiences , called " lost decade . " at the time , the japan budget deficit soared after a bubble burst in the country , causing stagnation in the economy .
the mugabe regime has committed a fierce act after the indignation of the public . the list of crimes includes : by stealing the 2002 election , which enabled mugabe to keep up with power , torture and murder supporters of the opposition movement for democratic change , the transformation of a fertile and prosperous country , once considered africa 's bread basket , where half the population is barely surviving on foreign food handouts , and , as an example , the release of its attacks on daily reports , suppression of critical voices . and winter 's neighbors , especially those in southern africa , defended president mugabe . at the end of the august , thirteen members of the southern african development community ( sadc ) , including mugabe and president thabo mbeki of southern africa , the main regional power , met in dar es salaam , tanzania , in order to take into account the challenges they had before them . between 54 points of the final communiqué , two of them were involved in winter .
the survey found that , although only 25 % of respondents were in line with national policy , 60 % of respondents were satisfied with their own administration . and the constitution allows each state to act as a laboratories of democracy called judge brandeis , experimenting with innovative policies , without jeopardizing the rest of the country . there 's a long and rich history of successful attempts , and i 'm sure you 'll understand . the state and local governments were the leaders of the establishment of primary and secondary education systems , as well as state schools and universities . california , wyoming and other states allowed women to vote - an example that supported the nineteenth amendment ( the right to all adult women ) .
should higher nominal growth ( i.e. inflation driven by inflation ) replace growth driven by debt ? europe must aim for sustainable growth , which is not inflation , and create competitive jobs . the current inflation rate is 0.3 % , owing to a significant decline in commodity prices , and a painful but inevitable adjustment of costs and prices in countries that are not at the edge of the market . only a ece of green has a slightly negative inflation rate at the moment , and the current situation is very low . in other words , price stability is in the eurozone , and it is a sign of the country 's economic and economic crisis .
thus , speculative prices in the register are likely to cause bunker operators to release stocks , but speculators who are now active in the presence of commercial storage capacity could buy these releases . the implication is that speculators can increase prices and increase inventory inventory , even if the total commercial inventory remains unchanged . moreover , speculation about the oil market may have triggered " echo speculation , " whereby final users have purchased refined products in advance to protect themselves from future price increases . they then take the supply to their premises , so that the overall increase in the inventory is increased , but this increase is not part of the reported commercial inventory . proving that speculation is responsible for higher prices is always difficult , as it is usually based on strong foundations .
however , both states do not have the income of the domestic population needed to sustain their institutions . if they want to survive much longer in the next century , they will probably have to be under the influence of a union supported by a larger , stronger and more established state . moreover , the disintegration that has already been witnessed by the region - and will no doubt continue to witness - will be carried out behind the arab map and the creation of a sovereign sovereign sovereign sovereign sovereign sovereign ruler . such a state , whether in fact or in general formal recognition , will have an effect on the boundaries of the arab world ( syria and iraq ) and the wider middle of the east ( turkey and iran ) . the spring of the arab toppled some of the regimes , though not the rest .
we think that new risk management products such as new insurance or financial derivatives will be particularly interesting for rich people or at least relatively rich people . in fact , new risk management products are developed for some poorest people in africa , asia and latin america . it is important to recognize that the poorest people in the world are not the same people in the year . good luck and bad luck happen at random , and the poorest people are especially vulnerable when they strike like a hurricane in a fishing village . thus , the risk management can be extremely important to mitigate poverty .
the disconnect is nothing new ; there have always been tsars and serfs , politburo commissars and proletariat . but the post-communist boris yeltsin , though he has sometimes declared allegiance to a hazy common sense of russian ( russian citizens ) , deprived or freed , is a matter of opinion - russia 's inhabitants of all common life , both the real life of common suffering and the imaginary half-life of communist solidarity . today , everyone deals with life and suffering ( a new word in our everyday vocabulary ) , no matter what kremlin wants to do in uniform . indeed , even russia 's unity is quite different today , and it is not so different . in new gorod , lukoil ( one of the biggest private oil companies in russia ) was seen .
greater international cooperation would increase the economic benefits of immigration in the highest possible rate . but despite the potential benefits of cooperation in the control of illegal immigration , most countries , including us and uk , are seeking to unilaterally reform their immigration legislation . they consider cooperation as unfeasible , given the natural competition between countries of destination and source for the most productive workers . the new system , in which " reversible bonds " are replaced by quotas and desirable projections , would reduce the competition , while mitigating the risks to countries where they are located and where they are located . the reverse bonds would be an insurance policy for both sides , which would protect the target countries from the cost of immigration , which is motivated by the fiscally , and would protect the source from the costs associated with the loss of talented workers .
in the end , every economic downturn will end , and it will be over . the good policy mark is that it is necessary to reduce the downturn and reduce it more than it would otherwise be . the importance of austerity policies , which many governments have accepted , is that the economic downturn has deteriorated considerably and longer than necessary , with long-term consequences . the rate of inflation adjusted for capita is lower in most north atlantic countries than in 2007 , and the economy has shrunk by 23 % . the average annual growth in the last 6 years has been misrecorded in the most successful european countries .
twenty-five years ago , the people of poland were stunned by the choice of their compatriot , cardinal carol 's wojtyla of the pope . some were afraid , others were crying with joy , and others were crying with joy . here , a major writer said , " the second baptism of the poland . " but even in our euphoria , we did n't expect the pope to change not just the country , but the world . his first visit to his native country soon showed the world the power of the new pope .
although the hong kong courts could certainly have dealt with the issue themselves - under the " one country , " the framework of two systems , the hong kong is secured by an independent court system , in addition to the right to choose its own legislature - an enraged chinese intervened . the restriction is not , after all , a leninist virtue , a leninist virtue . in an extraordinary move , the chinese national congress committee stepped in to " clarify " article 104 of the basic law and declared that all oaths of officials must be " serious , precise , complete and honest . " yau and leung were not allowed to sit in the legislative council for a seat . most of the hong kong lawyers did not represent the political authority merely reinterpreted the old rules , but the move toward the new ones .
some companies promise to pay their wages , open factories , and even offer employees a voice in the workplace . the company 's multinational sports firm is making an advertising code of its company based on basic principles of universal human rights . the company is placing football balls on the market and other products with " guaranteed : productions without children 's work . " but the sensitivity of human rights has not done anything to prevent trade unions worldwide . international labor organization reports that unions are seeking to retreat from most countries , but they are not in the labor market .
the united states have already taken another logical step , and they have taken a step . the securities commission and the exchange commission require companies using tantalum , tin , gold or tungsten to investigate the origin of these raw materials and to mitigate the risks associated with the supply chain in accordance with the guidance of the oecd , if they are found to be the originator of certain conflict areas or in the most endangered areas . 12 member states at the international conference on africa in the large lakes have committed themselves to similar requirements for dual-care . that 's what it 's supposed to be , that 's what it 's supposed to be . the responsible source is a duty , not a choice , but a duty to use the resources .
they will conclude that they can have both of them , and they will keep the benefits of economic integration without losing their ability to violate the rights of their citizens , or use financial transfers to build mutual relations between customers and strengthen their influence on the state . illiberal nationalists like hungarian prime minister orbán claim to defend the state 's sovereignty in brussels . cameron 's initiative is in their hands , allowing the orbán and his allies to declare themselves anathema any further action towards the ever closer union and strengthening federal authority and legitimacy . but the truth is that the cee countries do not have much to lose in their sovereignty . most of their productive and financial assets belong to foreign companies , as most of the rules governing their economy have been determined .
the systemic crisis in food , fuel and financial matters , which took place in 2008 - and which are still in many countries - is the basis of an economic paradigm that has not been taken into account in terms of the value of the nature and the number of services supporting life . as the recently released report " towards the green economy : the path to sustainable development and eradication of poverty " shows , the market economy , as it has now been , has caused an unprecedented misallocation of capital . the deep and pervasive market failures - in carbon emissions , in biodiversity and ecosystem - speed up the risks of the environment and environmental scarcity and undermining the wellbeing of humans and social life . that is why the link with governance and institutions at the level of rio + 20 is equally important as the transition to a green economy : the markets are built in humans , which require rules and institutions to guide not only their direction , but also their boundaries . critics are concerned that the transition to a green economy will essentially be a monetize , the exposure of forests , drinking water and fishing to profit , and traders , whose shortcomings have contributed to the emergence of financial and economic turmoil in the last four years .
third , as usual , israel accused the anti-semitism of those who dared to criticize the disproportionate response of the hamas " undefensible missile attacks and collective punishment of palestinians . the italian cardinal , who was speaking intemperately , was accused of using the language of the denial of holocaust . by this standard , my unqualified criticism of the hamas ' missile attacks makes me a islamophobe ? by contrast , the deadly attack on gaza was the same time that the most famous american peacemakers in the middle east published books about how to deal with the task properly . it all sounded a little like a series of applications for work - a war for president barack obama 's ear .
a similar political imperative is the center of sinhalese chauvinism , which suddenly returned to the public life of sri lanka . during the last bloody push , which ended the quarter-century civil war with the tamil tigers in 2009 , religious and ethnic passions were supported by the sinhalese . but instead of seeking reconciliation with the tamils after their defeat , president mahinda rajapaksa continued to play with ethnic hatred , while he was subverted by the democratic regime of sri lanka . the unexpected defeat of rajapaksa by the coalition of democrats and tamil political parties in the presidential elections of last january - which he sought to cancel - should have ended his career and politics of race-baiting . but the former president is now preparing a furious bid to return and could win the parliamentary election , which was scheduled for the next 17 .
these are not isolated examples of children who have been caught in the crossfire , which happens when the classrooms become the real target of terrorists who see the threat of education . ( indeed , boko haram is literally translated into " false " or " western " education is banned . " ) in 30 countries , armed groups have concerted attacks , in which they have an afghoric , colombia , in pakistan , in india , in india , in particular , sudan and syria , the worst of which have been affected . such attacks clearly show that education is not just about boards , books and curricula . schools around the world , north america , and north germany , need security plans to protect pupils and provide trust to parents and their communities .
it would also be welcome to provide more scholarships for refugees and to finance schools in refugee settlements and beyond . modest funding for seed can go far enough to help businesses owned by petrol companies . some companies and organizations , including weaned , ikea and start-ups , are developing innovative approaches to hiring refugees . global organizations are trying to connect networks of technological refugees and hire them on the internet . some , such as tent tent , encourage businesses to hire refugees and put them in chains where they live .
therefore , the principle of " food sovereignty " is increasingly rejected for the agri-environmental model . the latter approach , approved by the committee on human rights , requires farmers to share their existing knowledge and seeds and protect local ecosystems . the representatives of more than 190 countries will meet in the sheikh of sharm , egypt , at the 14th meeting of the parties to the convention on biological diversity ( non-biodiversity conference ) . while they are there , they will consider whether to brake the gene drive brakes , in order to ensure that farmers and locals are fully consulted before they release these technologies into their communities . we hope that the international community will keep its duty to protect food supplies and farmers ' rights around the world .
it is not clear how long ago , the hugo vez had actually died before the official announcement of his death . buying time to secure their political future , venezuela officials carefully stage-managed chávez 's disease and possibly death , and he even suggested that he would be " still " walking and practicing . " the vacuum of information reminded him of the secret of the death of stalin and mao , and the practice of the ottoman empire , which kept the sultan 's death secret for weeks before the succession was settled . the emotional manipulation of the crime scene surrounding the death of vez seems to be certain that he will be able to translate into electoral support for his grey successor . but will it be enough to create a pedigree of the family of chávista ?
governments in developed countries must also play a role in the nature of technological innovation . they often support labor-replacing technologies that are not so much of a capital , but rather an increase in innovation in socially beneficial directions , and instead of replacing less skilled workers . these policies are unlikely to make much difference to developing countries , but they are also highly involved in the process . the main obstacle to these technologies will remain that existing technologies allow for a lack of room for substitution factors : using less skilled labour , rather than qualified professionals or physical capital . the demand for quality standards , which are necessary for the supply of global value chains , can not be easily replaced by manual labor .
berkeley - on january 20 , 2017 , the president of the donald trump will be elected by the donald trump , who received nearly three million votes less than his opponent , and will work with the republican senate , whose members have won 13 million votes less than their opponents . only the republican majority , led by the speaker paul ryan , claims to represent 55 % of americans who voted on the election day 2016 . trump will also begin with a rating of less than 50 % of its presidency . this is unprecedented - or " unpresident , " as one of his half-literate tweets has put it ( before he deleted it ) - in the history of these ratings . the world 's oldest democracy is not democratic .
the dispute between s-400 is the last example of how military procurement has caused a rift between turkey and western allies . according to turkey , the western partners did not do enough to adapt their rapidly growing defense industry through technology transfer and joint production systems . by contrast , chinese and russian companies were more receptive to such turkish demands as part of military procurement . the interests of the domestic defense industry are only part of the case in question . more generally , turkey and west undergo political , strategic and geopolitical decoupling , which , in the last instance , reflects different perceptions of the threat and alliances of each side in the conflict between syria .
in many countries , the underdevelopment of many countries in the south , which is poorly farted in their efforts to remain viable in the world , creates conditions for poverty , environmental collapse , and unmanned , unemployed people who are out of control of the atrophying state system . we will not create a better world in the 21st century , and we will forget what happened in the 19th and 20th years . this is not meant to say that our responses to the dangers arising from the heritage of the past must be rooted in the past . there is a greater need for innovative and future approaches to global governance . but as we entered the new millennium , it seems paradoxically clear that tomorrow 's possible disorder could be due to yesterday 's colonial order .
in bilateral negations with moscow , we have offered four specific projects of cooperation : · a bi-national and multi-national joint manned centers , where russian personnel can see the non-threatening nature of our activities and missile defense activities ; · joint russian expert studies on how bmd could affect russia 's nuclear deterrent effect and what steps can be taken to minimise any problems ; · expanded the natural theatre exercises at the level of russian theatre bmd , which are based on earlier cooperation - disrupted by the russian august war in 2008 with george - and rehearsing how the nato and russian forces can defend themselves against the threat of missiles . · a basic legal framework for supporting these and other cooperation projects , which are the basis for this .
under these conditions , the biggest and boldest policy proposals will likely be reflected in budgetary constraints . he 's already ruled out all the changes to the social security system , and he 's not going to change anything . the efforts of his and congressional republicans to replace affordable care ( obamacare ) and reduce the growth of medical spending have not been successful . and temporary increase in defense spending will be insufficient after this fiscal year . although the tax package , which was signed by the last tax december , which was already in place , and which is now helping to increase the economy , government revenue has not yet responded to this growth .
instead , a two-state solution has always been supported , despite a challenging demographic reality , and it is not necessary to maintain the identity of the jewish state . the granting of status as a status as a status of observer-state would deprive the table of the prospect of a solution for " one-state , " which recently gained momentum among experts . but these healthy reasons for supporting palestine 's offer will probably not prevent the euro from delivering a split voice , whose reverberations will not only be repeated throughout the arab world , but they will also prevent the euro from seeking to restore relations with the middle east and north africa countries . a split vote will thus undermine europe 's interests and deliver clear results to europe 's foreign policy in a challenging geopolitical environment . indeed , the euro 's divided stance on the israeli-palestinian conflict exemplifies its poor record of reaching a consensus on foreign policy .
in addition , in countries where google is criticized for blocking access to information , it points out that information is not available when something is blocked - to let people know that there is a thing , but that they can not access it . on the other hand , every time someone in china gets an answer - a good and bad point of the product , the details of someone who does n't like the government - he must ask himself , " why ca n't i get that information about everything ? " with a lot of google , people are beginning to expect answers from all over the world . a little bit of transparency is inevitably going to lead to more , and it 's going to happen . instead of demanding an end to censorship - an impossible dream - google is seeking to destroy government control over information .
although no result has been formally agreed or published , several issues have been raised at the beijing meeting . they have agreed to offer reasons for confidence that international consensus can be restored , so long lost in syria , how to deal with the hardest mass atrocities . first , it was widely accepted that the " responsibility to protect " doctrine ( r2p ) , which was unanimously approved by the general assembly of the united states in 2005 , should remain here . the r2p acknowledges that sovereign states are responsible for protecting their people from genocide , ethnic cleansing , crimes against humanity and war crimes ; true , some chinese scientists still tend to argue that the whole r2p business - especially its military actions in exceptional cases - is just an old neo-interventionist wine in a new bottle .
so the global economy should be regarded as a global capitalist system . global integration has brought huge benefits : the international division of labor , which is so clearly demonstrated by the theory of comparative benefits , dynamic benefits such as economies of scale and rapid expansion of innovation between countries , which is less easily demonstrated by the theory of static balance , and non-economic benefits , such as the freedom of choice of goods , capital , and people , and the freedom of ideas associated with international movement . but global capitalism is not without problems . by focusing on these problems , i 'm not trying to reduce globalization 's benefits . i believe these benefits can only be achieved by deliberate and sustained efforts to remedy and contain shortcomings in the system .
trump has portrayed the findings of the report as completely exonerating him ( " no collusion , no obstruction " ) , although the report explicitly stated that it was not the case . worse for the trump , the widely admired person recommended that congress carry out an appeal procedure . mueller explained that controversial justice policy , designed to help president richard nikki xon , is indicted by the president of the session . this is not in the constitution , nor is it a law , and it is not a matter of law . ( nixon was a co-conspirator in the case of burglary at the gate , while trump is one of new york 's cases , which involved his participation in pre-election payoffs , in order to silence two women who had sexual harassment shortly after the birth of his son barron . )
russia 's alleged " peacekeeping forces " in abkhazia and south ossetia , the other remote region of george , have effectively protected their rebel governments . russia also has supported the full trade embargo on george in the hope that it will weaken the decision of its pro-western president , mikhail saakashvili . if russia had recognized the independence of abkhazia , it would be tempting to respond militarily to prevent the country from breaking . the renewed conflict in abkhazia would not only threaten russia 's open war , but also to the tension of relations with armenia , as there are 50,000 armenians in abkhazia who support the breakout government . another risk in the south is that russia ( with armenian support ) will recognize the independence of the nagorno-karabakh region from azerbaijan .
europe must make progress on the first occasion if it is to seize the second , which means strengthening the eurozone . in this context , macron has already submitted ambitious proposals : a separate eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister , and a eurozone parliament ( composed of members of the european parliament and the national parliament ) , which is responsible for the financial minister . before the creation of a new coalition government , a working group of franco-germans was set up to consider macron 's proposals . now that merkel 's new leadership is in place , we 'll find out how far germany is willing to continue to support greater eurozone cohesion . in the short term , it seems unlikely that the new government will support macron 's proposals in their present form .
in addition , the recent creation of two other large investment banks - an asian infrastructure bank and a new development bank established by the british ( brazil , russia , china , china , and south africa ) will contribute more to a balanced mix of public and private sectors in development financing . the financial crisis also prompted some euro , african and asian governments to set up new approaches and other countries to expand their own resources . as a result , the total amount of assets of the ndbs reached approximately $ 5 billion in 2015 . today , it is an important feature of the most developed and middle-income financial sectors , especially china , germany , india , and south korea . and large numbers of ndbs can have a big impact , especially in emerging economies .
the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur . after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . as i pointed out earlier this year , the conservatives " plan would essentially solve one big problem - the collapse of britain 's diplomatic service - by creating a much bigger problem : the loss of britain 's soft power .
what do we have to do with other governments that support liberal democracy ? the answer could affect the political future of the egypt and the political future of the countries in the region . as many commentators have pointed out , from the point of view of the islamists , the removal of morsi 's actions in 1992 is remarkably reminiscent of the overthrow of the algerian military ( with us to support ) of the elected islamic government , the " silent coup " of the turkish army , when it forced the elected islamic government to withdraw from power , and the government 's reversal of its support for " arab democracy " after the hamas won elections in 2006 . if the islamists choose whether bullets or bullets are still in place , the bullets may now look more promising . more generally , military intervention in civil politics weakens processes , institutions and controls the state 's power , which makes liberal democracy work .
for example , in the early 200th century , the rwanda and ethiopia were recruited and trained by thousands of workers who fought against malaria by educating communities in the prevention and detection of the disease , providing tools such as networks of bed and management . as a result , malaria decreased by 75 % in both countries from 2000 to 2015 . but the world is constantly underestimating the ability and benefits of workers in the first place . this does not only undermine their ability to effectively carry out their jobs , but it also threatens them with extensive misinformation about vaccines , such as supporting attacks against those who provide them . consider pakistan , where hardline clerics and militants see the polio vaccination programs as western plans to sterilize and spy on muslim muslim .
once the soviet union 's " military threat " disappeared into the air , the subsequent wave of nato expansion did not serve the military or ideological purpose . the west 's logic for enlargement was geopolitical : to bring in the western sphere of political and economic influence of the former soviet republics and the socialist states of central and eastern europe . at first , the new members of nato were declared to meet the democratic and military criteria . later , these criteria were abandoned when nato began to invite the most corrupt states to join . moreover , nato has not only expanded its membership , but has also changed from the anti-communist defense alliance to an offensive group ( with operations in yugoslavia , iraq , and afghanistan ) .
ironically , this led the imf to focus on its role in the area of surveillance . so , in search of causes of a failure of the imf , we can rule out a distraction by more pressing matters . the fund is usually expected to be a problem from the usual suspects - an economic volatile developing country - but this time the crisis was emerging several miles from its headquarters . perhaps this proximity was the root of the imf 's failure to interpret the evidence directly beneath his nose . if so , it 's a failure that raises two key questions in the case .
it is a shift that raises a fundamental question : if those who want to act are unable to act " successfully , " what will happen to global stability if they are not willing to step in ? at the intersection of this question , the organization is considered america 's american and international organization ( i.e. not america ) , an average citizen . but if nato is - for better or worse - in command of the country in libya , it is the un who gave the necessary green light to the french action . this particular " marriage of reason " between france and the un is essential for understanding the french position on libya . the same relationship between france and the un , which led to the resistance of the country to intervene in iraq in 2003 , has now forced the country to intervene in libya in 2011 .
but if the hour really had lunch with the lobbyists , they would have to deliberately lie down and hide it . of course , it is not possible to enforce complete disclosure , but by creating clear processes and expectations , we hope to restore the norms . if an official meets a lobbyist and does n't embarrass him , he can say it . the voters can make their own decisions , and they can make decisions about themselves . and if an official meets lobbyists mostly at other meetings , he can also make a decision .
and there is a risk that technological giants will use their vast army of hackers to develop an almost identical product and defend it with their vast legal resources . big tech companies could claim that all of the capital they put in new products and services is pushing innovation . however , one suspects that , under many circumstances , the aim is to reduce the potential competition of the bud . it is notable that the large tech is still making most of its revenue from the main products of its companies - such as apple iphone , microsoft office and engine search engine . in practice , it is likely that new technologies may be buried as well as food .
historically , the state and federal generals preferred to sue " casual " traders who were sticking out like a sore thumb . for example , when a small italian bank was taken from someone who had never sold a large order for the stock of our shoes shortly before the company was acquired by an italian eyewitnesses , it was not difficult to smell fish . in other words , it is much easier to prove that trade is only because trade is rarely operated by traders , and that their trade is not justified . on the contrary , it is much harder to identify the problem when hundreds of people make deals every day . in rajaratnam 's case , the possibility of establishing such a link was obtained by telephone surveillance .
african girls are also unduly vulnerable to contracting partners in the area of their own . in the area of africa , about 90 % of pregnant women and children live in africa , and despite significant reductions in hiv transmission rates , adolescent girls are still more than twice as likely as boys at the same age as boys who carry the virus . yet a third of young africans do n't know how to prevent hiv - another reason for an urgent and comprehensive education of sexuality . another epidemic that afflicts african women is violence . the use of sexual violence is a tactic of how to use a man 's life .
new york - many historians and economists insist that we live in a period of time by huge and impersonal forces . the actions and decisions of a man or woman , however powerful , can not determine the fate of the nation . this may be true , or it may be a long time ago , but it is true . but there are moments when the choice of a leader can change the course of history . that was true in russia , and it may soon be true in turkey .
as i show in a new paper , even if it is successful , the agreement reached in paris will reduce temperatures by just 0.05 ° c. the increase in the sea level would be reduced by only 1.3 centimeters in the sea . this may seem surprising : we can hear how every country has made significant commitments to reduce emissions of coal 2 - so-called " intended contributions at national level , " or indcs . according to the chief of climate change , the christiana characters " indcs have the ability to limit the forecast temperature to around 2.7 ° c by 2100 , but not enough , but much lower than the estimated four , five , or more degrees of heat projected by many previous times . " the figures suggested that the agreement on paris would cut nearly two degrees of warming from 4.5 ° c to 2.7 ° c.
anti-euro political forces are clearly creating electoral inroads , and they will continue to grow , until growth is emic , and unemployment will remain high . in the meantime , it is unlikely that instead of this year , there will be no major policy or institutional reforms , as there will be fear that such reforms will be adversely affected by the outcome of the subsequent elections in the underworld , in the area of france , in the area of france , in the area of germany , and possibly in the event of italy . of course , the alternative opinion is that this will be a short term , trump 's election , and the rise in populist and nationalist parties will serve as a call for an extension of the euro , and it will encourage europe to develop a broader integration policy and an increase in growth policy . this would require policymakers to abandon the view that each country is responsible only for the acquisition of their own housing , while maintaining fiscal , financial and regulatory obligations . compliance with the rules for the eu system is no longer practical , since the current system is causing too much restrictions and contains too few effective mechanisms for adapting .
russians realized they did n't have to win at all costs ; without the militaristic say-so , they could be great . then the pension reform was announced , prompting a series of protests that made it possible to make a promise to mitigate the measures and ask russia to understand them . 53 % of the population , however , said they were ready to protest further . and on september 9 , when the local government elections took place , tens of thousands of russians joined the protest of an anti-corruption lawyer and opposition leader alexei navalny , who had been resisting the ban on " political excitement " in the election . navalny himself could not attend the event after being arrested for an unsanctioned demonstration .
china has wasted its economic and technological potential , not because of external forces . before europe and china had crossed paths in the opium wars of 1839-42 , the technological superiority of europe was huge military advantages , and china was forced to make unilateral humiliating concessions . china 's imperial state and the company were destabilized by the euro 's incursions . the imperial dynasty collapsed in 1911 under external pressure and internal demands for change . but the change did not come out of the way , and it did not come smoothly .
the obvious success of these cities , as well as economic centers , is indicative of the fact that urban land is of value for the existence of a well-planned city . where the land is now cheap , it will be worth much in the future if only someone takes a dramatic step in planning and creating a whole city . the establishment of these cities is a relatively rare event , but it is not a problem . private developers have problems getting a large plot without restrictions on the subject . but they tend to be sophisticated in developing attractive new areas from small cities within an hour of commute from the main cities .
it may take a while , but it will create an increasing friction of economic realty and an increase in the incentive for vez to be authoritarian . there is no immediate crisis , but vez must choose the future of venezuela . if the economy opens and changes the exchange rate , growth and stability will be in place . if he goes to the state of populist , 2001 will be a crisis year . until now , venezuela 's elite and most of the investment community have taken the worst and acted accordingly : there is no plan for vez , no choice , just a bad thing .
growth is expected to be restored over the course of 2005-2006 , which will end the current cycle . the average surplus in the current budget since the start of this cycle is 0.8 % of the total amount of the gdp . the large surplus in the three-year period since 1999 is much higher than the expected official deficit in the next two years . this means that the treasury expects an average surplus from 1999 / 2000 to stabilize at 0.7 % of the gdp until the end of the cycle , so that brown strictures are met . but independent predictions are more pessimistic , and they do n't know what they 're talking about .
instead , strategies have been drawn from the view that all of our behaviour is selfish , and that the intellectual task is to design mechanisms compatible with incentives or contracts , and that efforts have also been recognised with bel prices . but as george 's price has been shown long ago , the darwinian evolution may have caused us altruistic , at least for the people we see as members of the group we call " us . " the new revolution in economics can be a place for strategies based on ideas and identities , not just taxes and subsidies . we can understand that we are voting because citizens should do it , and we are doing our job well , because we seek respect and self-realization , not just raising . if the revolution is successful , it can lead to strategies that will make us better suited to better angels .
such openly elected rulers as kuchma of ukraine or lukashenko from the belarus are not possible to imagine in romania at the moment . moreover , the connection to nato means military and intelligence services under the command of the nato ( i.e. , the american ) , so any attempt to coup or cause problems between the romanians and our sizeable hungarian minority can be prevented . the more severe is the country 's democratic world , the less it is likely to be a dramatic social or political unrest , or to avoid democratic unrest . the essential limits on the independence of local political elites are determined to do what they want . of course , the nato can not only protect democracy , and it is not a panacea for our social and political diseases , but it can act ( and , during the adoption process ) as an incentive for governments and parties to act responsibly and adhere to the rule of law .
this is the basis for dynamic corruption in the management of china , which is now under way . the consequences of degeneration leadership are easy to understand : an increase in economic dynamism and growth , social tensions , and a loss of credibility in the government . the puzzle is why neither the compelling logic of autocratic rules nor the growing evidence of worsening the performance of the regime in china has convinced even some of the most experienced observers that the ccp rule is now a different option . the obvious explanation is the power of conventional thinking , and the ability to explain it . long-term ruling regimes - think of the soviet communist party , the suharto of indonesia and egypt mubarak - are considered invulnerable , even before they fall .
some readers can say that the granddaughter of nikita khrushchev , who , as he has falsely said , has placed his shoe on the table at the general gathering of the united states in 1960 , should not be guided by the question of the world 's leaders ' ways . but there is a need to discuss the recent negotiations of chinese . when it comes to diplomatic offhandedness , the chinese have long had what british players call " form . " on a visit to the soviet union , mao zedong refused to use the bathroom next to his room , and instead used the pot he brought from china . he might have suspected that stalin , as the bbbc claimed last year , had collected and analyzed his excrement to inform the helmsman of the helmsman 's temper .
indeed , today 's potential heir needs legitimacy , not just from powerful oligarchs , but also from the street . that 's why the so-called " system liberals , " or the loyalists , who stand for the change in the kremlin 's background , want to control the movement of protest and use it as a lever to combat the " siloviks " ( putin 's military and security apparatus ) . the liberals believe russia has built an acceptable market economy . further development requires that some of the so-called putin 's cronies be eliminated only by controlled political reform . until recently , loyalists have argued that the quest for change prevents the criticism of government , which should be affected by constructive proposals .
my office has worked closely with the state to make sure that in most cases juries are used . my office also defended a liberal weekly newspaper newspaper novoe vremya ( new times ) , which was under pressure from moscow 's government under pretext of a business dispute . this fight is not over , but the moscow authorities must take into account the negative attitude of the public to cancel this publication . russia , of course , provides much more serious examples of political and human rights issues , such as a low-cost war in chechnya or yukos . my office is paying attention to chechnya , though it 's not easy to do it from moscow .
the new delhi - international discussion on china 's rise has focused on increasing trade muscle , increasing maritime ambitions and expanding the capacity to design military power . but one of the most important issues is usually ignored : china 's rise as a hydrohegemon , without modern historical parallel . no other country has ever managed to take such an uncontested riparian reputation on the continent by controlling the waters of several international rivers and manipulating their cross-border flows . china , the world 's largest dam builder - with a slightly larger than half of the planet 's 50,000 large dams - is rapidly gathering leverage against its neighbors by carrying out large-scale hydrotechnical projects on international rivers . asia 's water map changed fundamentally after victory in china in 1949 , which was made by the communist .
they pose a risk of economic stability without offsetting the benefits of increased investments in productive activities . as stanford 's anat admati and others have long argued , banks demand at least higher capital requirements and more thorough regulatory controls . the fact that financial institutions have escaped relatively unharmed since the crisis in 2008-2009 is talking about their political power . as financial regulation failures suggest that , since economic reforms are important , they must be supplemented by measures to remedy asymmetry of political access . in the case of us , the choice of working days , not weekends or holidays , and the restrictive rules for registration , the gerryman and the myriad other electoral rules , places ordinary workers at a significant disadvantage .
for israel , the occupying power , whose people have democratic civil power , and many times the rights of the people who deny freedom and independence are denied , is replaced by photographs of the opportunities offered by meetings and welcoming the palestinian leaders . a serious look at the 17-year-old yassir arafat and rabin yitzhak were shaking hands on the lawn . the number of illegal jewish settlements and settlers has doubled in the area of the island occupied in 1967 . negotiators have managed to solve all possible problems of stability , borders , settlements , refugees and economic relations . leaders of the world 's superpowers , united nations , elders , and dozens of goodwill offered their offices and services to bring peace .
in other words , export miracle did not encourage chinese companies to support the state , but by solutions to efficiency at sea created in the west . that led to an economic equivalent of a personal crisis : who is china - them or us ? in personal relationships , denial usually masks imbalances - but only for so long . finally , the cracks in denial and imbalances lead to a deceptive and blame - a partner who is responsible for the problems of making a man himself . that 's the case with us and china , and that 's why we 're here .
as lamy has said , nearly 80 % of the curry is ready ; we need only other spices from the main players - india , the european union , the european union , the brazil , and china . they can be provided politically acceptable , which also means that the end of doha is within our reach , not beyond our grasp . but why do you bother to keep trying , and you do n't want to try ? if doha fails , someone will say that life will continue to live on . of course , that 's true , but this view does n't make it less naive .
the eu also suddenly woke up the need for a common external energy security policy , not least to diversify from russian supplies . since 20 % of russian gas is being used for europe 's belarus , it has become a priority for a stable and structured relationship with the government . lukashenko decided , on economic reasons , that his country would need support instead of his country , and he could no longer rely exclusively on russia , without paying a high political price . but the thaw in eubelarus relations must be based on reciprocal and permanent steps . after all , the strategic partnership for eu is not conditional upon the fact that it is not necessary .
paris - the world is undergoing a drastic decline in natural capital . plants and animal species worldwide are disappearing at unprecedented speed - 100 to 1,000 times more than the number of natural extinction . the world 's most endangered ecosystems are located in developing countries , and they depend on the world 's most neediest communities . on the contrary , the poor are the first to suffer from the deterioration of their natural environment . but in developing countries , the immediate economic needs often outweigh long-term demands , and the protection of fragile environments is rarely a priority for the national level .
the rice has an extremely rich portfolio of clean energy , including nearly nine terawatts of solar capacity , more than 350 gigawatts of hydroenergy and a maximum of 100 gw of wind energy . this is enough for the continent to meet its future demand . the renewable energy sources are also less costly , and they are increasingly competitive with fossil fuels . for example , the price of photovoltaic photovoltaic energy fell by 50 % in the period 2010-2014 , and today it is still falling . and the programme for the award of renewable energy from south africa , which was awarded to the producer of energy , has generally reduced prices for supply and overestimated subscription prices .
paris - the main lines related to immigration-related problems have become a staple in europe , whether the article is an illegal immigrant immigrant who is building a paris to save a baby or create a population government in italy , aiming to deport half a million immigrants . and yet , despite the constant interest in the issue - or more likely - for that reason - the debate on immigration policy remains undisputed by misconceptions and misconceptions . in the united kingdom , the brexit vote was partly supported by false and distorted claims , such as that immobile migration from the rest of europe was driven by wage . however , since the vote has taken place in the anti-brexit camp , it has been warned that , once the euro union is abandoned , uk will be deprived of skills . but many countries - like australia , canada and singapore - do not agree to free movement from other countries by issuing visas that are appropriate to them .
this does not mean that we should scrap or revise the gdp , but we must recognize its limitations . the problem with the gdp is not that it is a bad material welfare measure ( the removal of distribution problems ) , but that it is incomplete . it does not include an increase in the scope of goods and services provided at a negative increase in costs , nor a more significant part of the wellbeing or social progress . the same dynamics of costs in the same structure promise to increase significantly in many areas of wellbeing . most medical professionals will soon have digital assistants who will be able to offer diagnoses ( especially for some cancers , diabetics , retinopathy and other chronic diseases ) , to carry out non-invasive surgeries , or find relevant research .
while psephological studies in the united states have shown that the poor do not vote in large numbers ( the election of the president in harlem averaged 23 % before barack obama 's two candidacies ) , the opposite is true in india . in india , the poor people take time to stand in the hot sun and believe their voices will change , while they know that their views and numbers will not affect the outcome , they will remain at home . studies of indian elections have shown that the poorest vote is much higher than the national average , while educated middle-class people are much lower than they are . the social composition of politicians and officials of india , which is why independence is evidence of democracy . but many regrets that poor country 's political class offers less reason for the party .
should we be looking at the french presidential campaign with admiration or fear of the president ? or maybe a little bit of both , maybe even a little bit of a problem . it 's certainly a big show with all the ingredients of the hollywood block , including a surprising twist : the emergence of a third man , françois bayrou . even if his victory is unlikely , it must be taken seriously by bayrou . first , he found himself in ségolène royal and nicolas sarkozy 's two remarkable spokesmen for his candidacy .
but that may be a change in response to president donald trump 's escalating attacks on the trading system based on rules . the japan recently agreed to negotiate a preferential trade agreement with the united states , which could challenge one of the pillars of a multilateral trading system : here , japan is again acting " voluntarily , " under strong pressure . according to the press reports , trump has offered a strong choice : open its ( very protected ) market for american agricultural exports , or increase the rate of cars and other industrial products . getting access to the agricultural market of japan would , it seems , lead to the fact that moot trump 's " national security " concerns about imported toyotas and hondas - a justification that allows him to circumvent the rules of his duties .
in contrast to the holland in the early 1980s , the brazil economy is now facing a challenge to stimulate rapid employment growth in fiscal constraints and high interest rates . although brazil 's unemployment rate is not high at regional level , its rapid increase in labor requires a high employment rate . the release of the experience of dutch jobs offers the most comfortable way to mitigate poverty in the brain . the idea is not that brazil should seek to implement the dutch social model - that is too different for the country . but lula can , and he should follow the example of kok and use his trade union and his relationship with the working class to achieve a social pact aimed at achieving a sustained improvement in the overall economic performance of brazil and realizing its potential for becoming a latin american economic powerhouse .
emma considers it a gonzá.europa.eu , an unknown teenage girl with a florida who " collected " twice more twitter followers than the association of national rifle almost overnight . after the massacre , the 1,66 million twitter users have been able to survive , and they have signaled their support for stronger regulations to control the weapons , and they have been resisting the weapons . but the assembly in physical space is fulfilling the functions of democracy , however permanent or passionate , can not simply be done . when a representative of barney frank in 2011 asked why he was taking the protesters of wall street " think that the mere physical condition is a great deal , " there would be a corresponding answer : " in fact , taking public space can achieve a great deal , depending on who the occupiers are and how many people are . " thus , civil rights advocates in the 1950s and 1960 " s often called " meaning of our numbers . "
economic commentators are better able to rationalize the movements of the exchange rate than in forecasting future trends . so , as for the explanation of the dollar 's decline in the last year , we are facing embarrassment over wealth . the most popular explanation for dollar weakness is that trump , whether out of power or wrong , failed to deliver what he promised . there was no rate of across-the-board import duty , and there was no rate . there was no sign of a trade agreement between north america and the north american .
of course , some were worried about the collapse of household savings , but few were worried . in one of the last articles , milton friedman wrote that savings were now being made up of houses . this view explains much better than the orthodox account , which is why commercial banks have not started to lend to them , and economic recovery has evaporated . as creditors have not made money before the crisis , they can not now make them more indebted to their homes , or businesses seeking to expand production by their own or their own market . in short , the recovery can not be carried out on the basis of the feed , the central bank of the euro or the england bank .
but there seems to be some fundamental rules of political survival that have been neglected in recent years , and their spelling can help the alp and others remember them . the first rule is to have a philosophy - and stick to it . the hugely successful governments of the labor force , led by the hawke and paul , had done so two decades ago , and they essentially created a model of " third way , " which later became associated with tony blair and gordon brown in britain . it was clear : a dry , free-market economy ( but in our case , low-paid workers , who benefit from a " social wage " increase in health care and pension income ) , compassionate social policy , and liberal internationalist policy . by contrast , the current alp government has struggled to restore everything as compelling .
this is the fifth part of the overall plan , and it 's going to be a long way off . finally , the use of more than a million asylum seekers and migrants per year must be mobilised by private sector - ngos , church groups and businesses - to act as sponsors . this will require not only sufficient funding , but also human and human capacity , but also the ability to cope with migrants and sponsors . the exodus of the war-torn syria should never have been a crisis . it was long in the process , easy to predict , and highly manageable by europe and the international community .
the corollary is that wealth is falling as a value of inefficient houses , gluttonous cars and shares of oil companies are declines . the problem is not based on the use of the price instrument ( " price instrument " ) . the same would be planned in the planned economy : the carbon efficiency would also require an old , inefficient device to be discarded , and further investments would be made to reduce carbon-intensive carbon emissions . in the case of household consumption , the corresponding smaller proportion of output will be available in recent estimates of the need for additional investments of around 2 % of the gross annual budget for the year 2040 . unfortunately , the effect of the distribution of green is negatively affected by the spread of the product .
but it also represents an opportunity to create a new partnership for the area of better eu . and besides , it could have been much worse , and i could n't even think about it . thanks to the withdrawal agreement , which was concluded in the past , the " hard " brexit was averted . since the start of the negotiations on the basis of the brexit , we have not lost the core interests of the bloc , nor have we lost sight of the need for unity and solidarity . we have priority in ensuring the rights of citizens of europe , including finding a solution for the people of ireland and ireland , for which negotiations have been about peace and stability , not trade and economy .
the israeli-palestinian conflict is still a diplomatic charade that has been here for many years . and nothing has weakened the tension between israel and syria and lebanon . history teaches us that diplomacy is often achieved only if it is supported by overwhelming force . such was the world 's existentialist view of us , the president and the nobel prize for peace , the main advocate of american expansionism : " the war is , in the long term , much better for the soul than the most successful peace . " a century later , another american president , barack obama , drowned in two hopeless wars in the middle east , received a nobel prize for peace with apologies for " fair wars . "
but today , when the influence of iran is growing , and the islamist terrorism is spreading , palestine is the last of the saudi arabia 's worries . so the fundamental changes to the kingdom 's strategic interests are that , despite the fact that we are the guardian of the most sacred island sites , it has not been said when president donald trump has recognized the jeras " eternal capital of israel . " other monarchies of sunni gulf and egypt have continued , and they have worked together with israel in security cooperation . politics is also a great thing to do with religion in the area of israel . the prime minister benanyahu 's expansion in the west bank is about political power , not about judaism .
europe is abuzz with mergers not only to use the wider economic space of europe , but also to face tough competition in world markets . in short , the old continent is hot , and it 's not going to be a good thing . no one can say how deep changes are going , and how fast europe will move into a fast lane . no day passes without major major major major major links in europe ; many of them are burning as their mammoth corporations carry out mating rituals . in short , there are big strategic games in the form of banks and banks , and it is clear that its main players are in a european scale and on the scale of the world .
the german binding fiscal rules set out a positive example for other eurozone countries . but all eurozone governments must demonstrate their commitment to fiscal consolidation in order to restore the confidence of markets and their citizens . recent studies show that , once the government 's debt burden reaches a threshold that is considered unsustainable , more debt will only be limited , not stimulate economic growth . the debt crisis of greece was a clear warning that european policymakers must not allow public debt to be accumulated indefinitely . instead , it was right to respond decisively to ensure the euro 's stability by providing short-term assistance to the greenback and the establishment of a financial stabilization mechanism for the euro .
the jews , who were not considered to be members of the russian nation , were regarded as members of an international cabal , and thus were treacherous . but stalin did n't invent the idea , and he did n't think about it . in the 1930 " s , fascists and nazis also condemned the jews , as well as marxists and freemasons , as cosmopolitans or internationalists , people whose loyalty was suspicious . it is a vocabulary that comes from nativist movements that are hostile to ethnic minorities , financial or intellectual elites , who have conspired to undermine their sons and daughters of the state . to pre-war fascists , they often regarded us as a symbol of cosmopolitan decadence .
" they should n't be close to the shariah , they should n't be here . it should be above the constitution and not the subject of an article for referendum . " but was the sar al-shariah brigade behind the attack on the consulate ? the nature of the post-revolution islamist forces of libya is not simple . salafi jihadism is not an organization , but an ideological trend based on the basic belief that armed tactics of all kinds are the most effective - and in some versions the most legitimate - method of social and political change .
their hopes were still shrinking when they saw the bulldozers arrive to prepare the ground for new settlements - not for an unusual event . since 1993 , the signing of a memorandum to understanding the organization of liberation between palestine and israel has tripled in the jewish settlement of the west bank . anyway , it seems to me that israel has dropped the charade . in london , at the beginning of this month , netanyahu rejected three times to answer questions about his support for two-state solutions . he recently said his final aim is to have palestinians with palestinian " state minus " limited size and sovereignty .
the euro 's design error - an economic union motivated by politics , but expressed in economics - has become apparent . structural changes in economies that have experienced a sharp fall in interest rates in the introduction of a currency bloc dominated by german must be rapidly , in crisis , and without the luxury of devaluation . the pain caused by this policy has been demonstrated in protests across the continent , and in bitter consequences for many struggling families , young and older people . the basis for the pro-euro case was partly a promise of increasing prosperity . at the moment , this promise is seriously contested , and it is not a problem .
the problem is not in the east germany , but in the west . unification meant that all of them would receive not only benefits from western german economic institutions - rights to real estate and money - but also all disastrous negative institutions : unions , overpaid unemployment , and excessive security of employment , pervasive regulation . if west germany had managed to unite all of these unaffordable restrictions on the free market , the economic costs would be much lower : the east and west germans would be more likely to be more likely to be fully employed , the productivity effort would be much more aggressive . of course , german corporatism did not allow such a solution : unions wanted to protect their wages . the only way to secure them was to pay a lot of unemployment payments in a high wage east germany .
amman - recently , the prime minister of israel shaul mofaz has offered a clear veto about the key issue of peace in the middle east . any return to the heights of gold to syria would result in an " iranian foothold " on the island 's border , and would not only be politically naive , but irrational . the statement of mofaz is symptomatic of a perception that is now deeply entrenched , not just in the middle of the east , but also in the united states . this notion is hegemonic iran who attempts to control the region by using a range of shiites . it is believed that this irish column is being stretched out from the beirut to the baghdad , and finally from the iran to the saudi-arabia to the yemens .
stanford - successful political candidates are seeking to implement proposals that have been submitted . in the united states , president barack obama and democrats , who controlled the house of representatives and senate ( filibuster-proof ) , had the power to do virtually everything they wanted in 2009 - and so did . obama and his allies in congress have signed up to $ 800 billion " stimulus " bill , which has been filled with programs designed for key democratic constituencies , such as environmentalists and public servants , adopted a large-scale and highly unpopular reform of health care ( the highest court will decide this year ) , and has imposed a huge new regulation on the broad economy ; they have adopted industrial policy that selects certain companies for special treatment ; they have taken part in the loan and spend at a higher level than the world war , and they have centralized power in washington , dc ( and within the federal government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the government , the the last election , followed by such a major change in the direction of the policy in 1980 , when president ronald reagan reagan overpaid taxes , spending and regulations , and supported the course of disinflation in the federal reserve . although the 1988 election and 2000 were also relatively insignificant , political changes were not nearly as large as in 1980 and 2008 .
all sides agree that the stability of the international economy is foreseen in the global system . the contested decision is of the nature of those rules , and the nature of those rules is not respected . opponents of trade liberalization are deceiving the secretiveness and non-democratic nature of the wto and the influence of the company 's interests in the production of rulees . they see a trade system that benefits from business in terms of labor , environment and consumer safety . developing countries complain about the restrictive rules for their exports ( garments , agricultural products , labor services ) , and fears that new requirements are needed to overcome labor and the environment , which are designed to weaken their competitiveness .
but when he fought for freedom from apartheid south africa , he says he must defend the freedom he won . in addition , geingob knows how transparency protects him from the requirements for the benefit of businesses and other interests . not all of the main sources of namibia are finite , but also all of the resources of the namibia . some - such as fishing - are renewable , and the government is working hard to keep and strengthen . the most important , unlike most other sources , has succeeded in diversifying the economy - so that services are more than 60 % of its workforce , and tourism is leading to it .
the vulnerability of gordon 's argument is a shortened time horizon for ir 3 . consider the following four sentences : in the paper , the following is inserted : · " both first two revolutions required about a hundred years to affect the economy . " · " at least 150 years before ir 1 has its full effect . " · " inventions of ir 2 were so important ... that they took a full 100 years to achieve their main effect . "
given all of this , the most important issue of emerging markets is how to respond to inflows that inevitably increase their exchange rates and threaten export growth . the first option is to do nothing , and to appreciate the currency , do n't do anything . this may be a good answer if the flow and pressure on the exchange rate are driven by the main factors ( a surplus of current accounts , undervalued currency , large and persistent growth differences ) . but inflows are often driven by short-term factors , fads and irrational exuberance , which can lead to overvalued currency , a reduction in non-traditional export sectors or competitive sectors that compete with import , loss of competitiveness , and , where appropriate , a significant deficit in the current account , and thus to a more stringent external constraint on growth . this problem is exacerbated by the fact that china 's biggest exporter in the world is aggressively intervening to minimise any appreciation of the fbi .
dropping debt services is largely an increase in the unprecedented zero-interest-rate policy of the fed . if the debt is still in excess , the consumer will dismiss the reduction in interest costs only as a temporary subsidy from the feed . moreover , unemployment decline is largely reflected in the persistent grim working conditions of the labour market , which discouraged many workers from staying in the labor market . if the share of labor force was 66 % , as was the case in early 2008 , compared to 62.8 % , as in december 2013 , unemployment rates would be above 11 % , not 6.7 % . yes , there 's been a certain progress on the road to recovery , and i 'm sure you 'll be able to help me .
but while she likes to raise her voice , she is wary of her : the german fiscal adjustment is actually very slow . countries facing the most fierce budget battles are united in the kingdom and in us , where fiscal deficits have exceeded 10 % of gdp in 2010 . in london , prime minister david cameron is on the attack , and he 's not a good man . he entrusted the budgetary forecasting to the new independent office for budgetary liability ( obr ) , thus losing any opportunity to carry out the necessary work . then he announced a bold consolidation programme , which would reduce the cyclically adjusted deficit by 1.5 % of the annual budget , and thus set a deficit of 3.5 % of the total deficit in 2013 .
demilitarization of sinai is one of the essential elements of egypt 's stability with israel . other large and independent countries such as japan , germany and austria have been exposed for decades to restrictions on the acquisition of certain weapons and military equipment . similarly , the refusal of the claim of palestinian refugees to return to the island is understandable , logical and fair . what sense would it be for millions of people to return to a state whose character and symbols are foreign to them - to the state in which most of them belong to another ethnic group ? are they going back to the house and the farm that 's not there anymore ?
in austria , voters choose between propropro-and candidate for the anti-eu election in the national national national form of le pen , norbert hofer of the austrian party for freedom ( fpö ) . a victory for the fer could add wind to the sails of the pen of the pen . the constitutional changes that renzi 's campaign is asking voters to approve would undo some of his predecessor 's legacy of silvio berlusconi - a legacy that serves as a prime example of damage to the population of the right-wing population . berlusconi changed his political system to prevent the left from being fully regaining power , and to block all the crimes that could be directed against him . the proposed reforms of renzi would , inter alia , modernize the political system by strengthening the senate ( the upper parliament 's headquarters ) .
still , it is important to remember that the party 's self-confidence is positive . as the political scientist kevin o'brien claimed , china 's increased willingness to compromise with some domestic demonstrators , rather than dealing with all forms of collective action as subversive , can be seen as a reflection of the growing sense of security . on the contrary , some of china 's most disturbing moves can be attributed to exaggerated feelings of uncertainty . consider the harsh treatment of critic liu xiaobao , sentenced to 11 years imprisonment for the release of " subversion " for the launch of a petition for internet applications for civil liberties . would a truly self-conscious ruling elite be so disingenuous about his actions ?
but discussions about competition and fair trade have once again demonstrated the intellectual poverty and inadequacy of trade negotiations . the aim of anti-dumping legislation is to ensure fair trade by preventing the sale of goods that are lower than the cost . in developed countries , such behavior has long been feared - so-called " dation " - and standards have been developed . globalization would be natural to extend these principles to an international stage , which would make it irrelevant whether a producer was domestic or foreign , in assessing whether he had acted in a unfair trade practice . but it makes a difference if the good is produced at home or abroad .
but the ratification of the agreement will not be quickly implemented in the senate and progress on other key issues is slow or uncertain : the implementation of a comprehensive ban on the ban on the ban on the ban on the implementation of the test ; the negotiations on the new treaty on the ban on the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons ; the strengthening of the non-proliferation regime with effective measures to detect breaches and deter the withdrawal of contracts ; the agreement on some of the most sensitive aspects of the fuel cycle ; and , above all , the launch of new rounds of serious disarmament talks , not just two nuclear superpowers , but all eight nuclear power , but all eight nuclear power , but all eight nuclear power , but all eight nuclear power , but all eight nuclear power , but all eight nuclear power , but all eight nuclear power , but all eight nuclear power , but all eight nuclear power , but all eight nuclear power , but all eight nuclear power , but all eight nuclear power , but all arms control and disarmament are a challenging , unglamorous business that brings few quick returns . with domestic problems and anxiety about re-election , which now dominates most of the political agenda , it will be too easy to accept a commitment to waning . if we avoid this , it will be necessary to continue the leadership of the top - especially from obama and russia 's president dmitri medvedev . but there are many important contributions that can be achieved by less powerful states and leaders , as well as civil society organizations .
" that was an investigation , " he replied , " that was an investigation . the military has investigated the military , and it has not yet been used to examine the military . i immediately suspected that this " apparent suicide " was suspicious of me , and i was not alone . i 've just checked the cells : it 's literally impossible to kill yourself . their interior is similar to the interior of a smooth plastic container ; there are no sharp edges ; the hooks are lowered ; there is no bed to be used to strangle each other .
for example , in southern africa , the knot has set up three centres ( in mpumalanga , in the east and in the north hood ) , which offer legal advice and medical care to women and work with men to help break down the cycle of domestic violence . moreover , since it is necessary to improve the understanding of violence based on gender , the unodes work with the international community in order to create a more precise and precise picture of the problem . this includes an assessment of the causes of violence in women and the assessment of the associated risk factors such as the incidence of drug use and alcohol . but gathering information is only one step towards closing gaps in criminal law and overcoming the shortcomings in the prevention policy . decisive policy measures , supported by more stringent enforcement of relevant legislation , need to improve the rates of reporting and prosecution , which remain low in many countries .
the main driver of higher real returns in the ex post is a relatively high coupon for these sovereign bonds . in addition to the history of return , the emerging and developing economies now represent two-thirds of the global budget , compared to one-third of 50 years ago , when diversification of the portfolio was almost a matter of domestic origin . the addition of attractiveness of the portfolio of sovereign securities emerging in emerging markets is not entirely linked to equity returns . moreover , there is evidence that creditors " rights and enforcement powers in the external debt markets have increased as a result of recent judicial decisions . these findings are not an invitation to accept an undiscriminate risk of treatment .
but higher domestic prices will increase , and the more it will fall - and the greater the financial and financial damage will be - when the bubble will collapse . in countries where loans do not use the right to use loans , borrowers can step out of mortgage loans if their value exceeds their value , the housing bust may lead to a massive default and a banking crisis . private consumption can be reduced as debt payments ( and , where appropriate , increasing interest rates ) to collect discretionary spending . either way , the result will be the same : recession and stagnation , but it will not be possible to bring about the crisis . what we are witnessing in many countries is a slow replay of the last train wreck .
but the world of arab is divided into how to deal with sudden rise in the irish power . the tension is particularly intense in the saudi arabia , which warned us about the danger of iraq 's collapse , and now it is in a different face with an iran . some in the kingdom claim that saudi arabia must face iran , stand up to the interests of the sunni arab and become a regional power source . other saudis believe that confrontation will only lead to wider wars and lead to an urgent dialogue and accommodation . in this context , we , not iran , produced the current problems of the region .
beijing - president donald trump and chinese president xi jinping may have agreed to the summit of the g-20 summit in osaka to continue trade negotiations , but the way to end the trade war is far from clear . after all , the two leaders reached a similar agreement at the previous summit of the g-20 - in the buenaires of the last december - and these discussions eventually failed , not least because of the mistook china 's conciliatory stance on weakness . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur .
if the central bank , who allowed the collapse of the system and the intangible benefits of teaching risk takers , decides to make a decision , it is not genius to predict the central bank 's decision . democracy tends to pose a moral hazard in sectors that are economically or politically important , such as finance or real estate , and thus enable them to privatize profits and increase losses . although the authorities insist that the next time there will be a different situation , everyone knows that when they re-reach the same decision , they will decide . so , since the authorities know that next time , they wo n't be different , they 'll try to prevent " next time . " but the risk takers have every incentive to try again , knowing that they will be saved .
among the large continental countries , including india and china , only china has a small piece of coastline , but a vast interior area . when the main purpose of human consumption was food , it was n't a problem because it meant land and water . but in modern industrial , urban and market societies , it is increasingly important to carry costs , which means geography can cause deep differences in regions . of course , such differences can also have other reasons , but geography is very clear . first , it explains why china 's coastal regions have developed earlier and faster after the country has launched its market reforms and opened the world .
the idea that a version of the soros plan would accelerate growth is speculative . most of the benefits of reducing mortgage rights are only in time for consumers . as a result , careful calculations on the impact of the reduction in mortgage debt on aggregate demand ( which we have done , and which have not yet been implemented by johnson and soros ) do not cover their claims : the extra expenditure per dollar of relief is likely to be less than a dime for the dollar that the government has expanded . this leaves the lessons of experience that institutions with a large share of public capital tend to be passive in terms of increasing lending . fifth , in a political environment that prevailed in 2009 , it would be difficult or impossible to get more money for a bailout program .
since many contracts are " sticky " ( which is not easily revised ) in cash terms , inflation and compensation would have caused both economic damage . the price increase is reduced by savings and pensions , while reducing prices will reduce profits , increase the accumulation and increase the real burden of debt . keynes 's dictum has become a wise decision about monetary policy ( one of his few who will survive ) . governments should aim for stable prices , with a slight tendency to inflation , and to stimulate " animal spirits " of businessmen and shoppers . in the ten years before the 2008 financial crisis , independent central banks set inflation targets for about 2 % , thus providing economies with a " anchor " in price stability .
the garet , who had been a supporter of the ideal of a politically integrated europe , was always an opponent . the british hostility to this goal has become increasingly fierce , as john major has lost his most important majority in parliament and has fallen under the influence of anti-european experts in his party . today 's british are an insurmountable obstacle to achieving more integrated eu . the british may prevent unwelcome developments in the eu of the uk , since the union is based on a contract , and thus the british have effective veto over any changes to the contract . in practice , the british have lost their power , as they demand , and they have the right to choose to participate in the emu .
princeton - democracy is in danger of serious problems , and there are no obstacles to it . the united states is gripped by the most bizarre presidential campaign in the living memory of the president , and the populist outsiders threaten to topple the established party machines . the brain is paralyzed by a constitutional crisis , and it is not a problem . europe 's citizens are seeking their malaise for democratic deficit in the european union . and in the united kingdom , the idea of restoring state sovereignty is a challenge to leave the campaign .
to avoid the excitement of the markets , it would have to be voluntary , but i 'm not going to be able to get into it . persuading bondholders to agree would be challenging - even more likely , given the recent decisions of the united states in the united states , which strengthen the support of investors in the fight against terrorism . but there 's no better option than that , and i 'm sure it 's not . ukraine would be an ideal candidate for the re-submission of the application . given the uncertainty about the country 's near-term prospects , the bailout and restructuring of full debt would be overtaken .
in times of lack , refugees are likely to feel the first signs of their consequences . water supplies in many refugee camps , in the jordan and lebanon , were cut to a minimum - a decision that had struck millions of people who had already been scorching temperatures . in rukban , a refugee camp on the border with syria and iraq is located at a refugee camp , with more than 85,500 inhabitants , each of which is barely five litres per day for cooking , drinking and washing . the situation in the emen is as bleak as it is in the case of the yemen . the country is not in charge of violence and civil war .
first , the volume of jigbs has soared relative to the japanese property of the japanese household . the japanese households have about 1,100 billion in net cash assets , the amount that will be exceeded in about 3-5 years . at this point , the government 's debt will no longer be covered by taxpayers " assets . and , given the aging of japan , household savings will fall dramatically , and private sector will be difficult to finance the annual budget deficit . the demographic trends of japan will also increase demand for fiscal expenditure , as pension and health care will increase .
there 's been a lot of things going on in yugoslavia lately , and it 's surprising . after a certain procrastination and failed attempt , milosevic was arrested without bloodshed , though not without danger . the peaceful vote in black men last weekend may be a barrier to conflict and difficult decisions about independence , but it is possible that the parties will be able to solve these matters rather than fight . these are big steps forward , and they show that , despite the brainwashing and complicity of many serbs in the crimes of milosevic 's regime , democracy and open society have the chance to root out what is left of yugoslavia . one key decision to face serbia and the new authorities is whether milosevic should be extradited to hague .
as a political pressure on central banks , including the issue , the president must not hesitate to criticize the european politicians and , where appropriate , to publicly name them and to shame them . the independence of the ecb is the most valuable asset - indeed , it is worth it . a good central banker must not be able to tell politicians about it , but he must not . this does n't mean that the president of the ecb should always be able to fight . on the contrary , he should be able to build support for the independence of the ecb .
in principle , a large number of regional development aid from the budget of the european union for the union , which was underutilized because of the lack of co-financing from the local population , could be counted . it took the last summer to recognize - and then only to a small extent - that aid could be used to promote economic recovery . the final error in europe was a certain degree of indifference to fair burden-sharing . it is understandable that the imf , technology institution , is not taking any chances beyond macroeconomics . but instead , it is a political entity that has made social justice one of its basic objectives .
brussels - the consequences of the european debt crisis are too much present throughout the european union , as distressed economies try to stabilize and increase . despite the important decisions taken over the last few years , we need to address the eurozone 's challenges more . the measures to reform and consolidation are implemented in the framework of the eu programme . there have been joint financial breaks in the area of financial assistance , which have been put in place . and the central bank of europe has consistently shown that the euro will stand by .
but the increase in interactive social networking has led to a more favourable financial innovation . millions of bank clients using mobile phones can immediately get their feedback about what products and services they like . in the future , the client-service systems and the transaction-management systems will receive more information from customers , so that the design of the product is interactively shaped . the current financial sector strategy is driven by an increase in the market share of competitors " costs , and it is often contrary to customers " confidence in the short term gains . however , the financial sector has proven in previous years that it can act as a public service by providing reliable and efficient services .
so the unraveling of multi-national states is a false path , and that 's why we 're not going to be able to make a mistake . the way forward is democratic federalism , which can provide sufficient central authority for state sovereignty , while respecting local and regional culture . today 's increase in micronationalism is not just a consequence of the revolt against the empires : it is also a rebellion against globalization . the idea of modern states is that the main function of modern states is to put their people in the world market , dominated by the need for efficiency and cheaply , without damaging non-economic activities . this feeling is reinforced when the global economy turns out to be a casino .
it is still right to ask if america 's life will survive the 21st century , and if so , if so , it will survive in america or move elsewhere , as we are in the economy and the political system will collapse under the weight of a decade of myopic national leadership and waste our opportunity . indeed , many - especially many chinese - saw the recent trip to washington by president hu jintao as a torch . pessimists have long said it , and they have been saying it for a long time . optimists , who have touted the gdp and other indicators , will continue to insist that americans never have such good intentions . if there is any further underscore , it is a regular cohabitation of boosterism with declinism : america 's glass is always half-empty .
but even when these uncertainties are resolved , both countries are involved in a kind of zero-sum transfer of emotions that can not be ignored . in the past , when you travel to london from paris , you can easily discern the difference between these two cities . london was bursting with dynamism and proud to claim that he was the capital of multiculturalism in the world . paris , though certainly more beautiful , were in danger of becoming a new slave , a prisoner of his past glory , at best , a place to visit , but not a place to be . today , confidence has been drained from britain by social and political support , terrorism , and uncertainty about the future of the country .
these speculative investments may further strengthen the trend and push the future price away from the balance of the market , especially if many investors are in a position to respond to the market , or investors who invest enough funds . the index funds are an example of these powerful investors , and they are not in the interest of the company . they became the main market participants , and they kept up to 25 to 35 % of all future agricultural contracts . in addition to investing a large amount of money , they have a contract for the future , which may reduce the likelihood of market change . empirical evidence does not provide a clear answer to the question of which hypothesis is correct .
i 've never been involved in partisan politics , but it 's not a normal time . president george w. bush threatens the united states and the world 's security while undermining american values . for the fact that i have stood up to him , i have been demonized by the campaign against the bush . president bush ran in 2000 on a platform promising a " modest " policy . if we re-elect the doctrine of the bush , the doctrine of preventive measures and invasion of iraq will be approved , and the world will have to bear the consequences .
the war between the 1990 " s was destroyed not just by millions of people , but also by social institutions that created their lives . the changes that led to yugoslavia 's dissolution and wars of succession have eliminated many of the traditional systems of serbia , crosnia , macedonia and kosovo . since then , stability and hope have begun to return to the region affected by the destruction of war and the general despair of social displacement . the 1999 balker-stability pact and massive international support for the recovery of local education , while developing innovative vocational education and training systems , which should strengthen long-term employment , have helped to restore local education . the results of many of these countries " projects are encouraging , and they are currently focused on the main groups of education , for example , entrepreneurs , teachers , and young people who are unemployed .
so two important steps were taken : one of the people of ireland , who proved to understand the challenges they face , and the other of the new president , who set up the best team to make a difficult program . " you can only wake up someone who sleeps , not someone who pretends to sleep . " whether irish interlocators act on the importance of rouhani 's election is a matter of choice , not ignorance . in the middle of the east , it is so full of uncertainty that it is more predictable - a man who acts as a regional and important state , not a destabilizing movement , whose ambitions exceed the limits of international law , would be in all interest . there is no way out of the middle east 's suffering without participation , commitment and determination of all parties .
nairobi - with rising unemployment , rising growth , and stock markets in a free fall , can , at first glance , be reasonable to avoid climate change and invest in the environment . but this would be a terrible mistake of immediate and inter-generational proportions . the environmental investment is what is needed to bring people back to work , to get books flowing , and to help the economy return to health . in the past , environmental concerns have been regarded as luxury ; today is a necessity - some of which , however , have not yet been understood by all economic architects . a large part of the president 's $ 825 billion stimulus package for the united states includes a boost to renewable energy , " weather " and modernize the inefficient electricity grid of the country .
we could all be happy to work less if the decline reflected social progress . but we do n't like unemployment , which is the result of a sudden fiscal crisis . that 's why austerity ca n't be a builder of morale at the moment . for morale , we need a social compact that will find a purpose for everyone , a way of proving that we are part of society , by being a worker . and we need fiscal stimulus - ideally , a stimulus that will increase taxes and spending .
the federal law , adopted in japan 2016 , has also established a supervisory board with a fiscal authority for us . the restructuring process may be 3 when the commission filed a petition in the federal court . however , there is still a number of crucial decisions to be taken , such as how much debt relief will be provided , and how the " haircut " will be distributed between holders of different types of bonds . these decisions will determine which policies can be supported by puerto rico 's economic prospects - and thus how much it can be paid to creditors . in any effort to resolve the debt crisis , it is necessary to understand that , as the current debt restructuring affects the future growth of puerto rico , the future growth of puerto rico is affected by the need for debt restructuring .
with goodwill on all sides , real benefits can be made from building this informal grouping , as it is the gateway to large southeast and northeast markets . the economic bonus for such an effort for the entire region would be the opening of direct flights and sea transport across the taiwan strait . ceagpol could even be a building block for the northeast asian version of the aeeeeeeas - a " association of northeast asian nations . " as a result of historical suspicion between china , japan and korea , the economic heavyweights of northeast asia are the last regional bloc in the world , which still lack inter-governmental organisations such as the aseas . the european union is even more instructive , as it culminates in the twentieth century wars , and it is more of a stimulus than discouraging europe 's economic , political , and security integration .
even in europe and in the united states , officials at a higher level tend to gain much less than those who have comparable qualifications and responsibilities in the private sector . in all countries , government officials are highly dedicated and honest , but low salaries attract some rotten apples , willing to raise their income by accepting bribes and taking part in other corrupt practices . some honest officials may be disillusioned and surrendered to many temptations of illegal funds , so that their incomes increase to levels that are more appropriate for their responsibilities and training . many years ago , economist george stigler and i published an article that suggested a reduction in the number of government employees . in addition , we have proposed that officials in vulnerable and important jobs receive a higher salary than comparable workers in the private sector .
london - russia 's invasion of ukrainian and annexation of crimea has jeopardized global security and has dominated the main lines . but the current international system based on rules , which has been in place for decades , is still most seriously threatened by the civil war in syria . not only are millions of lives in danger , but also in the context of human rights and humanitarian law . these risks are now threatened by the threat of overshadowed by the ukraine crisis , when the united states security council is facing a threat to subordinate syria in the context of international problems . last month , on the third anniversary of the explosion of protests in damascus and other syrian cities , people around the world mobilized in the streets of the city and online in the " syria " campaign .
this is also true for the financial parameters of the commission 's national financial instruments . the contribution of public and private sources is in many ways combined with each other . of course , there is another feature that many higher education institutions have a subsidy that can be used to offset inequities . it will take some time to build these subsidies in europe and elsewhere . but the principle is certainly right : the universities must be released from the university .
but rather than picking up facts and stories that fit into some of the great stories about decline or progress , we should try to compare all human existence areas to find out if the world is doing better or worse . together with 21 of the world 's top economists , i tried to do it , and i developed a scorecard for 150 years . in ten areas - including health , education , war , gender , air pollution , climate change , and biodiversity - economists answered the same question : what is the relative cost of this problem every year since 1900 , until 2013 , with predictions for 2050 . the economists show how much damage is to use the classic economic valuation of everything from the lost lives , the health of the disease , the illiteracy of the wetlands , and the increase in the damage caused by global warming . in order to estimate the extent of the problem , the total amount of funds available to determine the problem is compared to the total amount of funds available .
investments in food production must be clearly increased in the medium term and in the long term . but today 's leaders have a policy prescription that could help to remove obstacles to supply : more trade . this proposal may be a problem , but it is clear and irrefutable . trade is a belt of transmission , through which supplies are added to demand . it allows food to travel from many countries to a country of small parts .
but the republicans " proposed tax reform is a greater gift for corporations and ultra-rich than most anticipated . it avoids the necessary reforms , and leaves the country with a debt range ; the consequences - low investments , productivity growth , and yawning inequality - will be decades before it is restored . trump assumed that office would promising to " drain the swamp " in washington , dc . instead , the swamp is growing , and it 's still growing , and it 's deeper . with the proposed tax reform of republicans , it threatens to engulf the economy .
but finance can fail in many ways , and the collapse of the lehman is only one . if this cycle is even more correct , the regulatory fatigue from the fight against finance will soon become a regulatory confidence that the last war has been won . in a strong economy , financial support will be stronger , and it seems that existing regulations will be effective . it is common for people to change their views on the world , if they last saw a strong economy and stable financial system , they would conclude that they had stabilized the system . the transcripts of the fed 2008 show that its leaders have seen the world .
but with a psychotic label attached to the files , whatever they were doing was a symptom of their madness . at best , they will be declared " remission of funds " in the form of a statement . rosenhan 's experiment suggests that trump 's mental health issues will never be removed , no matter what steps he will take to change his mind . even if he stops talking about twitter or speaking in complex and incoherent sentences , he will be " remission . " modern psychiatrists argue that they have taken the lessons of rosenhan 's experiment , and that they have now performed a more carefully and more thorough diagnosis .
boston - a resurgence of nativism and xenophobia in the countries around the world has created a toxic environment for those who have fled from political crises . but among the many challenges encountered by refugees , while awaiting resettlement , access to high-quality physical and mental health is top of the list . it is a challenge that requires more attention not only from doctors , nurses , non-governmental organizations , but also from engineers who can contribute to global public health . these contributions are very important for the refugees , and they are very important to them . the engineers can improve the quality and availability of healthcare around the world by developing faster methods of diagnosing disease and providing medical services .
over the last 30 years , the prevailing ip regime has built more barriers to the use of knowledge , which often leads to differences between social returns for innovation and private returns to expand . the strong lobbies of advanced economy , which have created this regime , have clearly put it in place , and they have expressed their opposition to the provisions that recognise intellectual property rights related to traditional knowledge and biodiversity . the widespread adoption of today 's strict ip protection is unprecedented in the past . even among the first industrializers , the ip protection was delayed , and they were often deliberately chewed to allow for faster industrialization and growth . the current regime of ip is not sustainable , and it is not possible to use it .
during this period , the dollar was highly valued against the big currency , and in 1985 it was overvalued by virtually every measure . during that period , the bundesbank sold dollars to limit the dollar 's appreciation ( figure 1c ) , but the food did not intervene in any way ( figure 1b ) . despite the euro 's progress in the central bank , this asymmetry continues : the ecb has repeatedly tried to break the dollar 's appreciation in 2000-2001 by subsequent intervention in the foreign exchange market , but the food has only been fed once . this confirmed the interest of america in maintaining a strong dollar in the us . if these interests are different , we should expect that foreign exchange policy will be coordinated only in the short term .
in the coming meetings of the g-8 ( a club of rich industrial countries and russia ) , four members - germany , france , italy and uk - will participate individually and as members of the european union , whose president will also be interested in representing the entire election . but should n't the eu be a mere representative of the group , but should n't it be ? regardless of whether these meetings are productive , non-itary participation would be of great symbolic value : it would confirm a common european approach to international relations and international economic policy . the main argument for such a change is that the common participation of the euro would increase the importance of international relations , especially in relation to us . after all , the main reason for europe 's integration was to provide europe 's more powerful voice in the international arena .
the idea behind the slippery slope is that if you do " x , " which is acceptable , you end up with y , which is not . indeed , there are two kinds of slippery slopes - logical and sociological - and there are . on a logical slippery slope , you slide down and accept the moral unacceptable , because it is not possible to distinguish it from acceptable procedures . you can slide down the sociological slippery slope from one practice to another - even if both of them are conceptually different - because the existence of one of them creates a social environment that is receptive to the other . the treatment cloning is conceptually different from the cloning of reproductive values .
soon , devaluation in a nearby country will reveal how vulnerable the economy is to lose international confidence . all of a sudden , foreign creditors cut short credit lines in the short term . the central bank is trying to keep the exchange rate , but it is eventually forced to let the currency float . the result is a collapse of currency and a wave of failures in the currency . the economy is facing the most severe economic crisis in the last few decades .
the world may not support us in unilateral attempts to become a cop in the world , especially because they can bring greater instability . however , it is important to realise why we are doing it , and that they are responding to the main issue of today 's international order . if russia and other countries that opposed iraq 's iraq 's policy in the security council , they would have persuaded us not to attack iraq and defend international law , it would be naive to fail . if we want to maintain the status of permanent members of the un security council and the status of the current members , these measures will be more likely to produce the opposite effect . similarly , the rear guard is seeking to prove that the people who have opposed the war in iraq are right , and that americans and britons are mistaken , and that iraq has a " proof " weapon of mass destruction , and that they are only constructive , and that they are merely causing mutual irritation .
some 8,000 refugees per day - modern volkerwanderung - are entering germany , partly because of the harsh conditions at home , and partly because germany wants to take them . the problem of taking care of these numbers , using and integrating them will soon be limited to physical capacity , financial resources and tolerance for the public . it is clear that public policy can not be successful if it focuses on the consequences of the refugee crisis , not on the causes of it . the biggest positive impact would be the emergence of a new government in damascus , which would be acceptable to most of the syrian people and would be a satisfactory partner for the united states and europe . unfortunately , it seems to me that this is likely to only come from russia and ireland , and they both seem more inclined to support president bashar al-assad than to work for his removal .
israel also joined the navigation system in the mediterranean and contributed to the active activity by joining the nato forces in the patrolling of the medalines . both sides seem eager to extend their partnership to achieve high interoperability . in anticipation of hypothetical confrontation with ian , a major military maneuver was conducted - a juniper cobra exercise - to test the integration of israel into the ballistic missile defense . american sources have described the drill as the " most complete air defense system we 've ever done . " they said it was a major contribution to the development of the planned nato shield for europe .
it 's hard to see how the girls can be returned safely to the safe . the launch of a military rescue operation would be highly risky , and the operation would be at risk . it is believed that the girls were divided into separate groups , so any attempt to rescue one group would be compromised by the other . despite the talk of government negotiations with the kidnappers , this option would be fraught with danger . even if all the girls come home , they 'll never be the same .
the country has played in accordance with the " rules " of financial markets and has managed to quickly complete the restructuring , but the agreement has been bad and has not helped the economy to recover . three years later , greece desperately needs a new restructuring , and he 's not going to be able to get rid of it . distressed debtors need to start again , and they need to be able to start again . excessive penalties lead to negative sum games , in which the debtor can not recover , and creditors do not benefit from the larger repayment capacity that would result in recovery . the absence of a legal standard for restructuring debt is a new beginning , and there may be chaos .
we would expect to see a large number of diseases among employees and patients in hospitals where they are treated , and soon someone ( possibly a carrier who is not ill ) would be sent to ankara , istanbul , tbilisi , damascus , baghdad , and others . the anti-flu medication and relenza are very expensive and are not enough . history suggests that if these drugs were available to poor countries for prophylaxis , they would often be given improperly - for example , in the optimal dose - to promote viral resistance and only increase pandemic . or they might be sold in a black market to get corrupt government officials . rich countries would have a politically flawed but rational strategy to devote their resources to developing countries , especially to surveillance .
the best solution is to flexible western labor markets by opening a collective bargaining system , removing labor market regulation and restoring the welfare state . if the job is replaced by social care , wages will be more flexible , and instead of labor markets , immigrants will be more effective . but even with these measures , social benefits can artificially increase the incentive to move . if immigrants receive benefits for social security , they will be more likely to bring more benefits than necessary , and marginal immigrants will be a welfare loss for the benefits of benefits . since immigrants tend to enter countries that are redistributing resources from higher than average to lower incomes , such benefits are likely , even if immigrants work and pay taxes and social security contributions .
president mahmoud abbas has not disclosed his objection to such a strategy . but , since their government is unable to do anything about the expansion of the island 's settlements , including in the east , and in the next few places , there are still conflicts of holy places in the hebron , in the blatter , and in the mosque al-aksa mosque , the west bank palestinians are extremely disappointed . recent demonstrations on the streets could easily have turned into an outbreak of ongoing resistance to the rule of the island . the palestinian authority , which runs the west bank , is afraid that the popular , non-violent hints may soon be violent . if so , israel could use it as an excuse to destroy the palestinians and their newly built institutions .
li must ensure that china 's economy , which is still boasting significant growth potential , is not in lethargy and falls into the so-called " middle-income trap . " the development economy may slow down prematurely if external factors change the conditions of growth . wages are still rising , reducing competitiveness vis-à-vis low-income economies , but growth is still not able to sustain competitiveness in high-skilled industries , leading to stagnation . in order to avoid such a result , li must adapt china 's growth model to current conditions , which include strengthening trade friction with the european union and the united states , and the united states , greater pressure to allow the renminbi to appreciate , aging , slowing urbanization and increasing labor costs . the " new normal " that emerged from the global financial crisis , characterized by slow growth in the gdp , and the declining demand for imports in the west , is becoming increasingly urgent .
but after nine years of conservative government , the moon will not be able to just step in and implement its agenda . in fact , if his democratic party had only 40 % of the 299 places in the national assembly , he would have to gain support from centrist parties and even conservative opposition . moreover , he will need wider public support for the public , which he will not have . to succeed , the moon must carefully examine the effectiveness and feasibility of its campaign promises , identify the most promising measures and avoid the most obvious pitfalls . for example , the main problem is to consider the long-term financial burden that such hiring large amounts could create .
commercial television programs aimed at children are rewritten with advertising for processed foods that are not worth anything to human health . and for all celebrities who devote their time to the fight against obesity , there are a dozen people who are willing to pay for hawk products , such as ultra-high drinks , which are arguably tobacco for our generation . it is difficult to compete with production values , which are part of beyoncé 's commercial commercial or taylor fast enough to sell coke . the causes of obesity are complex and science of understanding human behavior is embryonic , but it is not hyperbole , so that the disease is called a disease . according to the disease control centers , about 18 % of children aged 6-11 are not just fat , but obese .
but america is now on its back , in economic and military terms , on its own . new powers such as china and india are growing , not rising , and they are mixing assertiveness with emphasis on their continued " development " status . europe , where shared sovereignty is accepted , is struggling to solve its problems , and it is never mind becoming a global player . so no one 's in charge , so i 'm not going to let anyone in . this is all the more difficult for the world 's states and people to be intertwined than ever , as ideas , information , finance , migrants , and problems are increasingly flowing across the border .
and for each capita gdp , it must be better than the aggregate gdp . no doubt the uk recovery began more slowly than in other seven economies , except for the italian economy . but there is no doubt that uk 's recovery rate was accelerated after 2012 . last year , the growth rate was the highest in the g-7 index . according to the imf , only the economy will grow faster over the next four years , and uk will regain control .
after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . in 1802 , the third president of america , thomas jefferson , wrote that " religion is a matter that lies only between humans and his god . " he made sure that the first amendment clause and the free exercise clause were built " a wall of separation between churches and the state . "
i have spoken to more than 50 foreign leaders personally , and we all agree that only coordination can stop the devastation in west africa and stop the spread of ebola . we are making progress in both matters , but there is still a lot of work to be done . it is difficult to connect countries with competing interests and various resources , but also with different resources . it requires a strong diplomatic engagement and calls on the relationship that has been built and maintained for decades , as well as an alliance with new partners . but by overcoming differences and coordinating efforts to defeat the islamic state and conquer the ebola , we support the world 's order , based on collective solutions to common problems .
consider an example of a subsidiary of a company that gains profits in ireland . this subsidiary pays ireland 's tax on ireland 's low 12 % stake in ireland . it is then free to reinvest the profits of ireland , financial securities or operating firms anywhere in the world - except for us . if the parent company of a foreign subsidiary returns the profits of the additional tax to the shareholders , it must pay the current corporation tax rate of 35 % of the original pre-tax irish profit , with a 12 % credit paid to the shareholders . due to 23 % of the repatriation penalty , we are generally not going to repatriate the profits of foreign subsidiaries .
and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur . after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years .
the problem is not to respect the national borders , and therefore requires a joint global action . but the transition to a neutral carbon economy also offers a great deal of opportunities . with the right strategy , europe can increase its technological innovation and introduce price pricing and other fiscal policies to protect europe 's labor markets from undercutting chinese and other sectors . in addition , the european investment bank has already had a tool to mobilise large capital deposits for investments in infrastructure , research and development and other essential areas . and , as adam tooze has said , the euro can gain greater economic independence from other powers and begin to set up a global currency .
in part , the response to the collapse of soviet states has accepted capitalism without reservations , which has produced remarkable economic progress . and as well as the economy , india 's self-confidence has been booming , according to the economy . today , india is aware that the world , especially the west , is seeing it with growing respect , not just for the performance of the country , but also for its essence - young countries , and also for ancient civilization . a little over sixty years ago , india remained the jewel of the british empire . fifty years ago , when you were looking for a reading of india in the west , you would find books about spirituality .
a thorough analysis of merkel 's words shows that he has not questioned the future of the transatlantic alliance . rather , she called for a stronger european union , and she did not want to be involved . merkel knows that if we sacrifice the place on the highest international order for domestic policy reasons , it will not replace it with a new leading force , nor will it be created by a new world order . what we have is a vacuum of energy , marked by chaos , and we will have a vacuum . and as the world is less stable , we will have no choice but to join our interests .
the point is that questions such as " we create too much inequality ? " the problem is that when the problem comes out , it 's too late and dramatic . therefore , china can not defend the issue of its transition to democracy . democracy is not just a mechanism that would help to prevent a strategic error in the world . there is a more mundane reason why many people , even within the party , think that democratic transition is inevitable : the party simply loses control of the country .
there are really a lot of interesting practical moves in this direction , though not all of them are pursuing the original regional course of their founders . for example , the economic community of west africa ( ecowas ) has unexpectedly demonstrated the will and ability to combat the fight against regional conflicts , such as a terrible civil war in the city . in the long term , it is less remarkable , but perhaps more important that ecohas created a single currency for regional economic integration . in southern africa , the development community of southern africa is pushing forward joint projects that are a source of transport infrastructure , which is a major issue for many intra-african trade . east africa is also pushing for integration projects , and it seems to have been clear from the past failures in the region that have been caused by hastily constructed , inappropriate and too ambitious structures .
so where 's this growth driven by demand ? - is that what it is like ? the european central bank ( eb ) seems to be interested in maintaining interest rates that are sufficiently high to make insolvency companies more likely than promoting higher employment . the commission wants the government to serve as an employer in the last resort . but the stability of the maastricht treaty and the growth pact limits the fiscal deficit to 3 % of the gdp - the ceiling that has already hit many bacteria . if the future government is not bold enough to violate the pact of abandonment , it will only be possible to increase taxes , which would only prolong the economic downturn in private demand , which would lead to a high unemployment rate .
the pope 's edict xvi explained why he thought the sinful priests were tempted to commit sexual acts with children . it was because of " new and serious challenges to faith , which led to rapid transformation and secularization of the irish society . " rapid social change has occurred , and it has often had a negative impact on the traditional adherence of catholic teaching and values of people . " as we know , the abuse of children by catholic priests has not only taken place in ireland , but in many other countries the pope has not preferred to dwell on . and ireland is not the only place where social transformation and secularization have raised religious values .
the last gust of wind allowed the island to carry seven battalions and twenty tanks in the zone c. egypt 's approach to the deployment of the sinai troops reflects its traditional neglect of the peninsula . historically , the treaty allowed only 70-80 % of the 22,000 troops to be used in the area of the area , and the military never established a regional command in the area of sinai , preferring to allow the troops to temporarily send a report to their superiors scattered around cairo and its surroundings . egypt 's new leaders of the islamist will want to restore " full sovereignty " over the peninsula , as president mohamed morsi 's legal adviser , a recently noted fouad gadalla . these sabers " comments against the island are currently popular in the country .
their home page shows a smiling young manager based on a chile and pushing for women in the palestine area - not for ideological reasons , but because there are so many talented hackers who can hire them . " thirty percent of women in the middle east have a high degree , " zaleski explains , but they often do n't get jobs that are appropriate for their education . with the technological ability of a helpless fly to overcome cultural barriers , a woman can contribute to america 's largest degree - even if local laws forbid her to drive a car . no wonder many men want to take part in such a model . the founders do not rule out the expansion of the scope of this need .
so there are ten good reasons to believe in europe - ten rational arguments to convince pessimistic analysts and investors , who are worried about investors , that the euro and the euro are buried very early . the first reason for hope is that statesmanship returns to europe , even if it is in domestic opathic doses . it is too early to predict the impact of franois hollande 's election as president of france . but in italy , one man , mario monti , is already making a difference . of course , no one has chosen the monti , and his position is fragile and already contested , but it is almost certain that he has made a decision to initiate long-term structural reforms .
and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur . after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years .
many of these decisions have been made wrong , largely because information technology ( computers and how they are used ) has eliminated many jobs in the middle class . in this context , globalization 's growing trade has not helped much of the world . moreover , as long as von wachter of the university of colombia does not report , the long-term unemployment rate for parents is severe and lasting . children who ca n't afford to start a decent start in their lives deserve help . but america has not provided it - a recently created place by a bush jeb , the leading candidate for the republican presidential nomination in 2016 .
in most of the eurozone countries , it is also necessary to consider measures to stimulate private investment in local transport and transport . governments , however , must understand the obstacles to investments : regulatory failures , weak assumptions , including financial and human capital , poor infrastructure , and low-standard technologies . they must carry out a thorough analysis of costs and benefits in order to ensure that any intervention is reflected in private investments that support productivity growth . it is here - at the level of implementation - that governments often do not . they often spend money on supporting private projects that do not provide a positive return to the wider economy .
there is a link between climate and food : people are growing poverty - and , as many , demand more meat and milk . this trend has serious implications for the environmental footprint of agriculture and the environment of agriculture . the animals are more likely to eat than they are produced by the animals . the cows are released by a large volume of methane from heat capture and storage . and clearing land for grazing will release carbon dioxide at a dizzying rate .
the african development bank , whose presidency is currently seeking , has a much more extensive mandate . but all these institutions have a common main goal : to get people out of poverty and to promote sustainable development . the leaders of these organizations must make a complicated decision in the allocation of their final resources . for example , it must be balanced against poverty and hunger , in order to improve gender equality , access to education or corruption . i have served as minister of finance , the central bank 's governor , and now foreign minister , for many years i have worked with international organizations to manage these competing priorities , as i have overseen the economic recovery of my own post-conflict state .
berlin - the left of the euro is facing a threat of extinction . in less than two years , the continent 's social democratic parties have suffered historical losses in france , in the netherlands , in germany , and in italy . on the continent , which has long been defined by democratic competition between the parties to the right and left , the collapse of the left could have far-reaching consequences , except for the interests of the parties . many factors underscore the decline of the left , including the dissolution of traditional working hours . but one of the most important reasons is as bleak as it is : the european electorate is increasingly opposed to immigration , and they do not believe that the left is limited .
by 2030 , we are expected to become self-sufficient energy and become oil exporter . this scenario would give us three huge benefits , and we would have had to deal with it . it would increase economic competitiveness , especially in the context of europe , given the lower costs associated with the extraction of shale gas . it would also reduce america 's exposure to growing unrest in the world of arab . finally , it would increase the relative vulnerability of america 's main strategic rival china , which is increasingly dependent on the supply of middle east energy .
the gap between their objective analysis of reality and government policies has become a gap . for example , economists in most western countries know that the growing share of income and other indicators between rich cities - which benefit globalization - and the rest of the country . but only when the french president emmanuel macron 's leadership was in charge of the national leader , he was in charge of tax cuts , according to where he lives . as a result , 1 % of france 's gdp is now distributed first to the poorest . traditional parties could learn from the direct listening of voters , not just through filters of the media and pollsters .
how many lives do you have to live for ? - how many times do you have ? let 's assume that the experience of visiting or remembering notre dame makes people happy twice as much as they would otherwise be in that period , meaning that the extra hour spent in notre davis or in the memory of one visit is as good as extending their lives by an hour . we think we 're saving lives for 60 years , but 9,000 years of annual benefits are equal to 150 lives per year . that 's a lot of lives , but now we have to ask how many lives can be saved . whatever the japanese people can claim , it is clear that we can save more lives and reduce economic difficulties by helping people in extreme poverty in low-income countries than we can .
some see the renewed germany commitment to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 , in order to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement in 2015 , as a ram against the wind . on septum 20 , the german government announced that the spending measures to reduce emissions would be eur 54 billion . in the end , we would call it a new green package of goods . it may be useful to spend these priorities on energy and environment , but also on the market . but the fact that coal emissions and other environmental objectives are seriously important does not mean a higher budget deficit .
any economist who seems to be asking questions about the benefits of opening trade risks , so i can clarify : i do n't challenge the standard version of the theory of gains-from-trade , but the exaggerated , unsubstantiated claims about the consequences of openness . for the latter , the public accepts the real article , since it is unlikely to meet the expectations . in fact , opening up is not easy to revise customs codes and remove barriers to foreign investments . it requires a large number of institutional reforms that will be completed by financial , bureaucratic and political resources . although many institutional reforms are favourable for development , they can not be targeted at key objectives of development - growth , improved governance , industry , and technology , alleviating poverty - and sometimes paying attention to them .
however , as examples of the above mentioned above , the sea does not reliably meet their objectives . this is because technical experts usually conduct sea at the most important developers of projects - a practice that activists have repeatedly pointed out that is highly unethical . the assessment of the environmental and market value of the ecosystems concerned is often based on conclusions on superficial assessment , but it is not surprising that the damage projects are often approved , even though they do not comply with the general principles of the green development . to be effective in protecting the planet and its people , the seas must be strictly , credible and transparent . this means that they must be carried out by well-regulated and impartial experts .
but there are indications that these assumptions are now being questioned by the commission . before the crisis , regulatory authorities focused mainly on removing barriers to trade and generally favouring measures that made markets more complete by increasing the volume of rapid and cheaper trading of larger financial claims . that 's not the case anymore , and that 's why i 'm not here anymore . on the contrary , many people now doubt that the higher efficiency of the market is always good for the public . could such a ease and efficiency be limited to the instability of the market and not to serve intermediaries " interests , rather than to their clients ?
after strenuous international protests against the kidnapping of chen , the fpc decided to investigate . xinhua has announced that local officials responsible for the violence may be prosecuted . central authorities immediately felt the need to criticize their controversial efforts to control population . and xinhua did n't waste any time claiming that abuse was limited to several cities . but the central government has done little to stop the intimidation of villagers from linda .
more monetary policy could strengthen global credit shortages , and thus increase the pressure on asia 's economy and financial systems . the market participants " response and response to the herding behaviour could cause sudden reversal of capital inflows , and there was a significant shortage of dollars in 1997 and 2008 - as well as the straining of asian banks and corporations . these risks explain why the mere suggestion of a possible move to reduce the purchase of long-term assets ( so-called quantitative easing ) has caused emerging-market currencies and asset prices to fall . they also underscore the need for asian economies to strengthen the financial security networks . the 2008 global financial crisis revealed fundamental shortcomings in the monetary system , as the lack of liquidity is highly valued in emerging asian economies .
for many russians , if not most , the authority embodies the power that controls everything that matters to life , and support him , no matter what he does , because otherwise there is no other option . this partly explains the enduring popular devotion of rulers such as joseph stalin 's joseph stalin . the question is not yet about the outcome of the presidential election next year , which has already been decided . with the presidential term extended to six years , we can expect a core lasting 12 years - longer than putin 's original performance . but now the confused and ignorant want to believe that putin will become a former .
the old regime 's adherents can easily bring newcomers to dangerous compromises if the process is too fast . the next major shortstop was that the leading orange revolution , ktor yushchenko , became a reckless and irresponsible president . he traveled around the world for months to celebrate his victory , and he ignored the chaos at home . then , almost all the government 's decisions began to vetove , and he was still joined by the old guard ( now in power ) against the prime minister yuliya tymoshenko ( whose party , on his credit , voted against the constitution ) . but while yushchenko is a warning to the russians that he will not choose an unanticipated president with excessive powers , the main cause of the collapse of the orange government was that most of the ministers ( yushchenko 's representatives ) were defectors of the old regime .
socialism in indian-style was a mixture of nationalism and idealism . it was believed that the goods and services of the indians , which are essential to the economic well-being of the indians , must remain in indian hands - and not by indians seeking profit from the production and sale of these goods and services , but by the fact that they are not interested in the state , the father and mother of all indians . given this mindset , performance was not a relevant criterion for assessing the benefits of the public sector . inefficiency masked generous subsidies from the national treasury and a combination of vested interests - socialist ideologues , bureaucratic officials , unions , and monopolies - did not allow political criticism . the culture of " permit-licence " of statist socialism enabled politicians and bureaucrats to use public service as a private satisfaction , and thus created a culture of corruption that is still continuing .
for organizations without clout - and digital revenue - there may also be a need for a people 's approach to secure investments . with ever more visible commercial model , many media leaders - according to research into computers - believe that in future foundations and non-profit , they will play a central role in supporting the media . but persuading foundations and philanthropists to open their hearts and wallets will require a connection to humans and engagement , not algorithms or ai-enabled software . potential investors must be convinced that journalism is such a noble cause as cancer research . technology can not only encourage democracy , but also help answer important questions and facilitate effective leadership by strengthening accountability .
if europe 's political and geographically divided , italy 's politics could be a point in balancing . a pro-eu italy , managed by the m5s-democrat coalition , could join the country and bring together the bacteria to reform the eu eu eu , to regain a clear foreign policy voice , russia , china , and china , and implement a green strategy for growth based on innovation-based growth . to forge such a coalition , m5 would have to adopt a responsible and clearly defined economic program , and democrats would have to accept that they were a junior partner of an insurgent group . the possible key to mutual trust would be for democrats to hold a key financial ministry while m5 is appointed by the prime minister . it is no surprise that president donald trump 's utterly reckless former adviser stephen bannon rushed to italy to support the m5 and the league to create a coalition called a " final dream , " because he would break the line .
my statement was also motivated by problems with the imposition of a capital sentence in india . the supreme court has declared that the death penalty should only be applied in " rarest cases . " and the last three executions in the country have been caused by terrorist offences that have threatened many lives . but the decision to impose a capital sentence is still highly subjective , and it is not necessary to take into account the situation . whether the death penalty is imposed depends on a number of variables , starting with a court or social charge .
the average hourly wage for all private payrolls , which were not paid by the farm , increased by 2.5 % annually since 2009 . as the food is slowly increasing interest rates , middle-class families , who have hard-earned savings in the bank , will eventually begin to realize their return . due to the useful impact of compound savings , it is not necessary to underestimate long-term effects . during the last tightening cycle between 2004 and 2006 , the interest income of households increased by 29 % . although this time , the gains will likely be smaller and slower , as the rate of their likely growth and the extent of their feeding will increase , the interest paid for by savings will move the household 's income in the right direction :
beijing - most western media have described the recent 19th nation congress of china as a purely powerful game , and president xi jinping has been involved in his position . but the accumulation of political capital in the present case is a means of ending . for xi , this end is a smooth transition to modernity , which will give the cpc a long-term authority and will guarantee its legacy as the most important chinese leader . xi knows that china will continue to thrive in a rapidly changing world , but it will need to be able to handle a major social and economic transformation , while improving state governance . and to ensure long-term survival of china 's one-party system , it must reform state institutions and party institutions ; indeed , political reform is a prerequisite for economic reform .
another question is how much revenue should be transferred and how much transfers can be carried out in a country as large , complex and financially backward as nigeria . but even if corruption and inefficiency are not in danger of its actual implementation , our proposal is superior to the present state . today 's terrible conditions are caused by stunning corruption and waste . at best , our proposal could improve the quality of public institutions , and thus to transform the economy and politics of nigeria for decades . the time to act is now , and the time to act is now , and i 'm not going to let you know .
the instability of financial markets may cause serious economic and social dislocation , but it is not possible to create a strong market economy . the question itself is : what should be done to ensure the stability of the financial system ? this can not be answered in abstract terms , since all situations are different . financial markets are best understood as a historical process . recent turmoil in asian markets raises difficult questions about currency pegs , asset bubbles , inadequate banking supervision , and a lack of financial information that can not be ignored .
the travel to the affected regions may have prevented significant epidemics from being placed elsewhere . health officials around the world should be careful and prepare for the possibility of resuming control efforts if they revitalize . indeed , the experience of the torrential experience , in which cases escaped and led to the second outbreak , is a warning against excessive optimism about the apparent control of larger and geographically dispersed outbreaks in the taiwan and continental china . these epidemics can be eliminated in the next few months . however , it is likely that there will be a certain transmission , or that the virus will be reintroduced to the human population of animals .
the recent decision of the bush administration to initiate parallel anti-corruption procedures by g-8 leaves the united states outside the first international forum for transparency in resource revenue , while unnecessarily trying to re-invent the wheel . we and britain have not used their power in iraq to promote transparency in oil . let 's hope that the new iraqi government will do better than we do . it is difficult to understand how democracy can be root if the country 's most important source of income is hidden in secret , as it was under the saddam . the eiti is still a long way off , but it is one of the most effective vehicles available to achieve a global level of disclosure and accountability .
more united nations are addressing human rights violations committed by the island than the abuse of all other countries combined . stories about israel are almost exclusively focused on the conflict between the palestinian . the head of the washington bureau of the pan-arab newspaper al-hayat is happy to believe it is because " muslim killing muslim or arab killing arab is more acceptable than israel killing arabs . " syrian , libyan and yemenite victims are faceless , the lionization of the relatively small number of gazan victims is unique . it is not possible to say that israel should be comforted by macabre arithmetic of bloodshed .
even the imf now recognizes that liberalization of the capital market has not brought many developing countries to growth or stability . however , whether the administration of shrubs is driven by narrow ideology or responding to the requirements of specific interests , it is still demanding that such liberalization be carried out in bilateral trade agreements . the second question relates to an unbalanced provision of intellectual property ( trips ) of the uruguay trade talks , which the us has dictated to pharmaceutical and entertainment sectors . these provisions limit countries " access to generic imitations of drugs , and many of the most important medicines that are not available in developing countries are not available . the activists around the world , driven by fears of aid , demanded something to be done .
now that the cap is operational , we will soon be able to benefit from the extraordinary effects of a new and permanent dividend on the world . in the next few years , we can expect data to show reduced health-care costs and better educational outcomes . meanwhile , governments will cooperate with other measures to reduce the environmental impact and climate impact of the global maritime transport system . these efforts are essential to achieve the objectives set out in the climate agreement for 2015 . as far as it is concerned , the shipping sector , ranked in the next country , is the emitter of the sixth largest greenhouse gas in the world .
the cambridge - the united states is famous for its ability to innovate . the desire to gain fiscal conservatives around the world could thus be interested in the four tricks that american politicians normally use when they promise to cut taxes , while reducing budget deficits . it is difficult to keep these promises , because the budget deficit is equal to government spending , which is less income from taxes . but every of these four tricks have been completed for three decades , and i 'm sure you 'll be able to handle it . they first gained their colorful names in the early years of the presidency of ronald reagan : " the magic asterisk , " " the rosy scenario , " the hypothesis of the laffer hypothesis , and the scenario of " starve the animal . "
so what is it : are banks still in danger , are n't they ? has it been a reform of the legislation following the crisis done its job ? the 2008 financial crisis highlighted two dangerous features of the current financial system , which were not directly related to the current situation . first , governments will pay the biggest banks , instead of letting them collapse and damage the economy . second , and worse , the failure to succeed is even greater , as creditors and trading partners prefer to work with banks that have a implicit government guarantee .
although the outcome of the arab spring is still not possible , the alliance has demonstrated its ability to act wisely in libya , thus improving the image of north africa . in chicago , the indian will agree on a major policy statement , which offers further support for the region , provided that the region 's countries demand it . the chicago participants will have significant differences in these matters , and the results may not be ideal . but the reinventing nato is a long-term process and it will necessarily occur in small steps . the main aim of the alliance must be to ensure that these actions are taken .
the new president 's office , mauricio macri , is often described in international press as " center-right . " but the label is not quite right , and it is not entirely true . in argentina , the left-wing division was blurred by the principles of a man with a reputation for a perónist who privatized state society in the 1990 " s , but only to renationalize them later . moreover , " right to center-right " often means " conservative , " and macri 's victory will not " serve " the current state . macri is best described as a " liberal " - in the sense of the word in the euro .
women who have abnormal brca1 or brca2 gene risk up to 85 % of breast cancer . the most recent large studies have analysed the effects of the individual nucleotide variations in genomics , so-called single-nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) , the risk of breast cancer of brc / brca2 mutation carriers , called " modifier snp , " which may reduce or increase the risk of individual life . we also found that only 20-40 % of breast cancer groups in families come from brca1 or brca2 germline mutations - genetic changes present from birth to all cells of the body and can be transmitted to offspring . it is also known that the increased risk of breast cancer is associated with several inherited syndromes such as li-fraumeni syndrome , a condition that is associated with the onset of multiple malignant tumors in childhood , including soft tissue tissue tissue tissue tissue tissue , leukemias and brain tumors . however , in most cases , genetic disposition remains elusive , and in most cases it is difficult to identify breast cancer .
xi 's government is struggling to maintain domestic stability , as china is moving away from the economic growth of the unit intensive to the unit of investments in the model based on domestic consumption and services . the primacy of this domestic agenda means that china 's efforts to lead global change will not be sufficiently clear and coherent . the second problem is that china 's incomplete transition to the world is due to the second problem . after world war ii , we were immediately and certainly dominated by the world . china , seeking to lead the next stage of economic globalization , does not have such a political power and legitimacy .
our commitment to climate change is to understand the huge risks and costs associated with inactivity . costa rica is devoted to important resources to addressing problems such as dengue fever and malaria , as our people are still our most important asset . and staying below 1.5 ° c will mean 3.3 million cases of dengue fever per year in latin america and caribbean , less people at risk of malaria , less food instability , and less nutrition due to higher temperatures and unstable weather conditions . costa rica is proud to lead the world by using this approach . as a result , we are among the few countries prepared to exceed the commitments under the climate agreement .
support china 's traditional civilization with enhanced spiritual ties , and thus strengthen the interests of the united states . now there 's a real hope that there will be talks on these lines . but there is a major obstacle to easing tensions : the proposed $ 6.5 billion sale of the united states to taiwan 30 helicopters and 330 patriot missiles . the talks on cooperation in the field of defense have been postponed for such an arms negotiation . they have been restarted since the start of the oil industry , which has been sent to the chinese government by the chinese government .
speaking at the european parliament in april 2017 , president michael ignatieff could say : " i have support in washington . i have support in berlin , i have support in budapest . it 's time to get some support in the brussels for a while . " and at first , the inatieff had a little support , at least . in december 2017 , the european commission took a hungary to the european court of justice for the government 's so-called " ceu law , " which the university said should have force it out of the country .
most chinese doctors and patients , for example , have long considered acupuncture as a proper treatment of stroke , using it to improve motor , speech and other functions that have been destroyed . one survey showed that 66 % of chinese doctors routinely use acupuncture to treat stroke effects , 63 % of doctors who were interested in the effectiveness of the drug . some 36 % of chinese doctors think the effectiveness of acupuncture is uncertain , perhaps because it remains so new . however , systematic scientific studies have recently begun to develop the effects of acupuncture in this treatment . almost all studies of acupuncture as a stroke treatment in china were positive .
even after years of quantitative easing and extremely low interest rates , central bankers in advanced economies - especially eurozone - continued to underestimate inflation targets . economists also had to question long-held assumptions about the decline in nominal wage rigidity , the artifact of the 1960-70s , when organized labor was much stronger . the idea that employees will always resist cutting wages ( or working hours ) is no longer valid . the declining labor force can explain why the phillips are no longer in line . but even more importantly , it is possible that the measured productivity is still weak .
but there is no need to trade between inequality and growth , and there is no need for a trade . governments can increase growth by increasing the inclusiveness of the population . the most valuable resource in the country is the people of the country . it is therefore necessary to ensure that everyone can live up to their potential and that is an opportunity for education for everyone . the modern economy is also required to take risks , but it is also necessary to take risks .
this haughty attitude reflects the jargon of " consenting patient " - as if something had happened to the patient , such as the blood or administration of the injection : on the contrary , consent should be regarded as a patient 's cherished possession , which he can choose to give up if he is presented with a sufficiently compelling case . they should not be taken away , as well as a ticket for the conductor . the problem is increased when the consent is obtained just hours before the surgery and months after the last consultation with the surgeon . this can lead patients to consent to procedures that they do n't understand or want .
those who have talent for the future have more bargaining power , they can better manage their careers and command higher salaries . those who do n't have skills in demand are struggling and they feel like they 're being abused . so far , this selection has deterred businesses from spending resources on training workers , who may eventually choose to join the competition . however , since talent shortages are a condition for maintaining workers , it could lead to a balance in terms of greater investment in professional development . employers providing opportunities for education will become the target of talent , and they will be able to learn from them .
similar to traditional military protocols , they gain strength and can quickly respond to a range of attacks . such a digital ecosystem strengthens controls and balances , reduces the risk of failure and reduces the effects of incursions . in such a future scenario , the hollywood block could be about networks of computers that fight each other . it will give the wider idea of singularity , a hypothetical turning point when artificial surpasses the human . fortunately , life in this case is still far from being able to imitate art .
on the sixth march , i received six recommendations from members of the " science20 " group , which was created by the scientific academies of the g-20 countries . in order to reduce the threat to marine ecosystems and maintain the marine environment , the final two recommendations call for " the creation of a system of improved storage and management of data that will provide scientific knowledge of global scale and " sharing of information obtained by research activities carried out under extensive and international cooperation , " in order to accelerate the overall understanding of the global ocean and its dynamics . " for this reason , we have to make sure that the data is made available to scientists around the world . at the beginning of the new era , the g-20 summit in osaka - reiwa ( " beautiful harmony " ) - in japan . on april 30 , the world witnessed the abdication of the emperor 's emeritus akihito , the first abdication of the emperor in 202 years .
by investing in urban planning " smart " and " resilient " , governments from bordeaux in the fight against itiba in brazil are strengthening their identity and attracting talent , investment and businesses around the world . the author of american canadian and urban activist jane jacobs has observed that cities are the real engines of national prosperity . cities are gaining power by innovation , trade and exchange of goods , and that is why they are not so important . and city services are more visible to citizens than federal aid ; for example , consider who will respond to traffic accidents or natural disasters . to be sure , today 's cities are facing a lot of challenges .
the danger is not just that economic rivalry , protectionism and restrictions on trade would threaten global prosperity , but also the risk of serious political confrontation . technological sovereignty would be the place of trade and exchange and nationality of corporations - even major multinationals - would be as important as their business model . yet it would be a mistake to conclude that this whole conflict was only caused by a trump and his neo-nationalist agenda . two days after google 's decision , the new york times issued a comment by thomas l. friedman , the author of the world , is flat , and many attacks on china 's unfair trade practices are reflected . if the previous ideological high priest of globalization stands , china is facing not only american trump , but also liberal americans .
in a small state , the imposition of a dense network of controls can lead to a loss of production factors , while in a large state , it is difficult to escape the labor force or capital . at international stage , the large states are seeking to create international rules , and they often build their own legitimacy on their claims to create a larger world : they think , in terms of what french thinkers call " harnessing globalization . " instead of roughly accepting an international system , they think they can change their weight in favor of all their imperfections . the nervousness and fear of small states began to increase roughly in 2000 , according to the commission . the iraq war , china 's search for energy sources in developing countries and russia 's assertiveness in foreign and domestic policy .
the democratic legitimacy has won a major battle over the legitimacy of the social sphere . this will open the way for more and more reforms to be implemented in the future . the law limiting traffic has taken effect on januza 1 and sarkozy intends to break the 35-hour working week , albeit indirectly . instead of removing the law , overtime work is easy and cheap . he is also preparing to raise his pension age to 61 years old , from 60 years old .
in addition to the united kingdom , the extreme free-market outlook has been less traction in europe in recent decades than in the past ; however , the eurozone 's implementation of financial reforms is more difficult . the governments consider that the country 's banks are important buyers of sovereign debt . banks argue that more effective regulation would reduce credit and slow economic recovery . as a result , the germany and france authorities ( as well as japan ) have consistently resisted the growing capital requirements , even though they have agreed to do so , it is a fundamental part of effective reregulation . their opposition has impeded international efforts to create a more resilient system - and it is likely to limit the european economy 's efforts to gain a more solid position .
this is a fundamental conflict between dodgy and trumpism : the aim is to eliminate the unregulated market consensus , privatization , free trade and immigration , which were the first . but even if they change ideas , they 're the same in the tactics . to consolidate the support , the cher would head for the head of the head with carefully selected enemies - from british miners to the president of argentina , general lepoldo galtieri , to bureaucrats in the uk . as the recent news of the institute of hudson kennedy recently told me : " bannon wants to radicalize anti-trump liberals in the fight for reasons that alienate them from mainstream america . " every time trump 's opponents march for women , muslims or sexual minorities , they fortify trump 's base of support .
young democracies can be cruel : their voters are as ruthless as political opponents . two weeks after the presidential election , taiwan 20 , only a third such democratic vote in the history of the country , has tried this truth almost to the point of breaking the rules . taiwan 's young democracy must now deal with the balancing act that president chen shui-bian has put in the election . while the president and vice president annette lu were injured by the bullet . the sympathy that was secured was a razor-thin victory for the president - only 50.1 % of the votes - over lily 's chan , candidate for the first party of kuomintang and the first party of the people ( the kmt-pfp ) .
in this context , the current effort to support the syrian government is two . but raising russian living standards remains a central element of putin 's grip on power and long-term heritage . even before he had reached the ukraine , putin had failed to deliver his great promise in 2003 , so that he would double the russian economy within a decade . as for nominal per capita gdp , russia still has a little better than mexico . the efforts to diversify and modernize the economy have failed , since it is not possible to rule out disruptive technologies and trade strategies .
cambridge - the prime minister alexis tsipras has the opportunity to get to his country , what the south korean president has done to the south korean president , kim dae-jung , and the brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva , was theirs : a man who is a man who is a man who is a member of the left who is moving to the market for fiscal and freer . both were elected in the midst of an economic crisis , as well as in the case of a similar tsipras . both of them immediately faced international financial restrictions that could afford to ignore the opposition . when kim and lula took power , they could adapt politically and mentally to the new realities that were facing them and begin to implement the necessary reforms . some reforms were " conservative " ( or " neo-liberal " ) , and they could not be possible under the law of politicians .
annual economic growth in the state averaged more than 10 % in 2002-2012 , when the city of gujarati in ahmedabad was selected for the lee of kuan 's world prize . but history has provoked modi 's campaign - more than 1,000 people died in the fight against muslim riots in gujarat in 2002 . although the supreme court has cleared him of all personal wrongdoing , the tragedy 's legacy is continuing , and modi is difficult to win the muslim votes , without alienating his nationalist base . this did not prevent modi from taking political risks , starting with his claim that india needs more toilets than temples . but his decision to run for prime minister is far from his most risky move , as he will test his national appeal .
xi 's anti-corruption campaign can not overcome this resistance . a chinese economist told me that china 's campaign cost china 1 % of the year . a chinese businessman told me that growth is less than half the official character . perhaps this can be reflected in the dynamism of the private sector , but there is still a fear of losing control of the party . finally , china 's deficit of soft energy is in place , and it is not possible to make it .
in the meantime , turkey and united states are interested in cooperation in iraq , syria and ireland . but as the turkey grows closer to us and its competition with iran stiffens in iraq and syria , it will also have to deal with more assertive russians who want to be in the middle of the east and east mederas - and keep their foothold in syria . the status quo in the middle east has changed , and turkey must reconsider and recalibrate regional policy . the turkey 's real strengths are a flourishing economy , a secular democratic system , and a medium between western allies and a region that is struggling to join the mainstream of the 21st century . as turkey navigates the syrian debacle , it will determine its position in the wider transition of its neighborhood .
these medicines have reduced the number of new infections ( although the total number of people living with hiv , especially 15-49 years old , is still growing ) . since 2005 , nearly two million patients have died in antiretroviral treatment . the disease between newborns , once around 70 000 a year , was interrupted by 63 % , and millions of people with aids were extended . another important factor is to integrate the plans for treatment , which is why it is not necessary to integrate them into the system . the government has adapted its early anti-retroviral treatment programs for existing sufferers , which were launched in 2008 , and programs for early monitoring of pregnant women have been launched .
but this can only happen if the nature of the nuclear power is maintained , so that the present and future generations of researchers can create new discoveries that benefit patients from all over the world . consider the polar bear and threaten to end up in a wild climate change . these mammals are spent up to seven months of hibernating , during which they are virtually immobile . a man loses a third or more bone mass during this period . amazingly , the hibernating bears lay down a new bone by creating a substance that would prevent the cells from breaking the bones and support the bodies that produce bone and cartilage .
but they need stronger support - not just air , but also from western forces . there is also a strong argument that none of its members , the party , was attacked , so that article 5 of the north atlantic treaty was activated , which guarantees mutual defence . the alliance should be committed to the destruction of terrorism , but it is not only a matter of fact . but this is not just the fight of the euro or the fight of the united states . this is about the global order in a stable and prosperous world , and we are doing it .
the eu is now in the middle of domestic policy discussions , which are increasingly important questions about the eurozone 's survival and the entire european project . this means that candidates for next year 's election are unlikely to focus only on domestic issues . some of this will be possible , but it is likely that , for the first time , there will be extensive discussions about the future and policies of the european union , especially in the area of migration , defense , security , energy , and climate , and relations with the main powers of the united states and russia . despite their differences , virtually all countries in europe are now struggling with the question of how much europe they want , how open and optimistic it is to be about new forms of technology-enabled globalization , and how much social solidarity is appropriate . these discussions - and thus the european parliament , which will be held next year - are unlikely to be respected by standard parties .
market failures are a reality of life , but they are also a failure of government . neo-liberal ideologies take the perfect market , they have perfect information , and many other things that even the best functioning of the market economy can not be achieved . • while neo-liberals fear excessive government , weak government is preventing growth , as weak states can not provide legal and legal order , they can not enforce contracts and ensure a safe and healthy banking system . after all , it was too small regulation - the liberalization of capital and financial markets in east asia , which led to a financial crisis in 1997 . the question should not be about how to deregulate quickly , but how to develop a regulatory framework .
i 'm sure they do , but what do you mean , they do ? any and all measures of monetary-policy redistribution of wealth and wealth . the interest rate hike is pleasant for savers , while the rate is reduced by the rowers . importers prefer strong exchange rates , exporters prefer to have a weak price in the market . monetary policy must have different effects on different groups .
anyway , the chinese wage story is much more complicated than it seems . nominal wages can increase , while real wages are stagnating , owing to higher inflation . even if real wages increase in coastal cities , " surplus labor " could keep the average flat . even a real wage increase at national level will not jeopardise competitiveness if labor productivity is growing faster . it seems to me that wage growth will not threaten china 's competitiveness for another 10 years or 20 years .
to assess whether their prices are too high for the current exchange rate , we need to find a trade balance . germany , the largest exporter in the euro , has a large surplus of trade with the rest of the world . since german exports are attractive to foreign buyers at the current rate of exchange , germany was the second largest exporter in 2009 ( after china ) . the german exports exceeded the volume of nearly $ 200 billion in the last 12 months . it is clear that the germany 's net exports would remain high , even if the euro was valued significantly from its present level .
these structural elements have reinforced the development of the region , which has reinforced the sense that many enemies threaten them : iran and nuclear ambitions , hezbollah , hamas , and missiles , the emergence of isis in iraq , syria , and elsewhere . in this context , it is easier to defend the quo than to support accommodation in territorial concessions . the victory of the network was clearly a impressive personal comeback from the past . in the weeks before the election , the public was tired of the prime minister , who had been in office for so long , to spoil the arrogance of power and to be tainted by a series of petty scandals . he led a campaign that relied on his eloquence and charisma and on his tactics .
investments should therefore be phased out , which may mean that oil wealth is temporarily stored abroad . throughout this process , kenya 's leaders should bear in mind that even the best plans can sometimes be broken , as gana 's recent experience has shown . in 2007 , oil was discovered on the ghan coast , and production began in 2010 . the oil management process in the next year has divided the wealth of consumption , investment and savings at sea , as economists have recommended around the world ( including us ) . but with the presidential election last year , the situation began to deteriorate .
in 1997 , the us and the united states treasury blamed the crisis for a lack of transparency in financial markets . but when developing countries point their fingers at secret bank accounts and hedge funds , they have reduced their enthusiasm for greater transparency . since then , hedge funds have grown in importance and secret bank accounts have flourished . but there are big differences between that and now , and i 'm sure you 'll be able to . most developing countries have accumulated vast reserves of foreign currency , but they have not yet been able to provide them .
in any event , the difficulties of citizens in eu of the eurozone could be reduced if the eurozone followed the final prescription - which would provide more fiscal and monetary stimulus in some areas to offset reforms and fiscal consolidation in others . by selectively addressing the most dangerous risks , draghi managed to reduce them . politicians should do the same in the case of sanctions against russia , thereby reducing their influence on europe 's citizens who are most likely to suffer . europe 's politicians have tools and intelligence that will keep the influence of ukraine . if they look at the church , they 'll find the right model to use it .
while the report faces the palin , he told a group of african-americans that black people did not need to be hired , white women in working-class positions often understand their own experience of racial enmity . they see a class of undergraduates who believe they have received benefits that have been denied to them , and that they have a thriving economy in the developing world , which is a siphon of well-paid jobs for blue collar workers . so , when sarah palin is taken to the media , she becomes a symbolic dream of revenge for many silenced workers and secretaries . to see a working-class white woman , she will be selected to serve the heartbeat of the president 's response . think of the film as well as the louise or the work of a working girl , in which the character of the character is a gutsy and exploited secretary , who , as a snippets of the head of the ivy league , is able to end up with a dream job , a guy and a corner office .
china has already delivered this advance by abandoning the growth model , which successfully led the country 's economic development for more than 30 years . it recognized the need to switch from a model aimed primarily at export production and production ( via manufacturing ) , to a model that led to private consumption ( via services ) . this change will give china a much better chance of avoiding the " middle-income trap , " which will trap most of the developing economy , precisely because their politicians mistakenly believe that the recipe for early takeoff growth is sufficient to achieve the status of development countries . we and chinese cases do n't exist in a vacuum vacuum , and we do n't have any more . as i stress in my new book , china and america are bound together .
hong kong - next month , politicians , leading businesses , academics and civil society representatives will meet in the german world for global economic symposium , where they will try to find a specific solution to today 's most pressing economic issues . whether they produce effective proposals will depend on understanding the factors underlying financial stability around the world . last year , at the top of the summit , three solutions were presented by the dialogues on the future of central banks , which led to inflation , which was aimed at financial stability , and three solutions : central banks should adopt a counter-cyclical policy approach ; the world 's monetary authority should be created to promote multilateral cooperation between central banks , and price stability must remain the main target of central banks . although these solutions are worth some merit , they are not sufficiently effective in addressing complex and far-reaching shortcomings that led to the global financial crisis for the period 2007-2009 . the crisis represented a comprehensive systemic failure , which included a breakdown of the breakdown at almost all levels , from macroeconomic theory to microlevels to incentives for institutions .
the piketty framework highlights several drivers of this trend , which are the driving force of the market . for example , by reducing trade barriers and investment barriers , globalization created a kind of environment that most technologically advanced actors gained their share in the market by using economies of scale . in particular , as the global economy is advancing to the creation of knowledge , several innovators in global branding , high-technology and creative industries have gained a great deal of success , and the global boom in technology stocks has increased their profits . the resulting concentration of revenue , wealth and power undermines systemic stability by creating too large entities to fail , while limiting the ability of smaller players to compete . this concentration is reinforced by the global financial system , with negative real interest rates that support financial repression in household savings .
however , the prevention must also be addressed by the danger posed by the destabilizing movement of capital . the experience of recent times teaches us that the speed and size of domestic and foreign investors can move to capital markets and beyond them , much higher than the ability of individual countries and international communities to counter these flows . many countries do not have enough foreign currency reserves to meet sudden and large outflows of capital without destabilization of their domestic economy . these outflows may sometimes occur because of the country 's fault , but as a result of the disease spreading from other causes . this phenomenon was too obvious in the asian crisis , and after the russian debt default in 1998 , it was too obvious .
like courtiers surrounding louis xviii , they did n't forget anything , and they did n't learn anything . the only question now is whether brown 's judgment in the euro will be " not yet , " not before the next election , " or simply " no . " it is a decision that is taken virtually independently of the prime minister 's tony blair and even against his will . blair believes britain should join the euro because he wants britain to be " the center of europe . " most commentators tend to assume that if tony blair wants that , sooner or later , it 's going to happen because he 's the prime minister .
trump rejected " reasoned discourse , including the fact and evidence commitments , " accompanied by an unlimited " ability to manipulate mass opinion and play on such suppressed emotions as racism and envy of class . " the result of trump 's approach is that america 's existing problems are deteriorating , and huge opportunities are not available . but what can stop the demons from being released , what do you think ? and even if they were stopped , could they reverse the damage they had done before ? there was a backlash against the trump , when he did not clearly condemn the white protesters in charlottesville , the virvirist , whose " connection " in august ended with the murder of a protester .
finally , trump proposed a tax deduction for the average cost of childcare for children . this may seem very beneficial , but it would only help those who have a high tax base to calculate deductions - especially households with annual income above $ 75,000 ( the median income of households in 2015 is 54,462 . ) the question of whether trump 's tax policy would be directly beneficial to him remains unanswered , since , unlike all other presidential candidates , since richard nixon , he has refused to disclose his tax records . what is certain is that trump 's tax policy is iscally irresponsible of the situation . indeed , there is no indication of how his tax policy would be financed , and that all indications would increase the budget deficit .
and in south africa , marlon parker , founder of the social innovation academy and incubator laboratories , created a virtual currency called zlato to support active participation in specialist workshops . when young people go to courses , they go to the laptops , or in the cafes of rlabs , they get a credit that can be exchanged for food , health care , and basic needs . since its inception in 2008 , laboratories have created tens of thousands of jobs and are now active in 24 countries . the youngest entrepreneurs of africa are not just about finding ways to promote themselves and contribute to their communities ; they are addressing the main cause of migration on the continent and beyond . for example , entrepreneurs supported by the anzisha prize created more than 300 jobs and created more than $ 850,000 in capital .
but scotland would demand its own special arrangement against the eu , and it would be appropriate to keep uk in line for a major constitutional shakeup , and possibly to dissolution it . in order to avoid this scenario , it is necessary to sacrifice autonomy in trade policy in order to ensure good friday agreements and territorial integrity . but this would upset hardline brexiteers and would be able to divide the conservative party , so the danger that theresa would not want to accept . british leaders have to acknowledge that all scenarios of brexit involve tradeoffs , and the country must urgently hold a national debate to match the voters " preferences . the selection is between three scenarios of brexit and the complete suspension of the brexit process .
last year , the country received $ 70 billion in advance - more than double the amount of direct investment in foreign countries . the pravasi bharatiya celebrations are undoubtedly a utilitarian aspect , as many parallel seminars suggest that state governments are leading them to attract an investment that will eventually bring an end to the atriate . the importance of financing diaspora - from the transfer of indians from the working class , which has transformed the kerala landscape into millions of modern businesses in the bangalore or gurgaon of silicone investors - can not be minimized , especially in the context of a global financial crisis . but we should n't be able to get out of here : overseas indians are still investing less resources in india than overseas chinese chinese . it is certainly worth more work for the indian government - and the main goal of the annual conclave is to encourage them to do more and give them more reasons .
businesses that ignore the wider social and environmental context in which they work are likely to pay the price : the damage to reputation and loss of the brand , the decline in sales , the difficulties in recruiting talent , reducing labor productivity , corruption , and more stringent government regulations , or an increase in the cost of climate-related clients . there are apps of mobile phones that assess and assess the supply chain of large multinationals for customers , investors and public officials . companies that have a bad risk of loss of sales and investors and are causing legal or legal action . for example , the apple brand has recently shaken the revelations of the brutal working conditions in chinese porcelain factories , where most of the iphones and ipads are assembled . in response to the concerns of customers , employees and shareholders , apple companies have improved working conditions and agreed to a regular review of independent observers .
they also tolerate business policy or government policies that encourage a high saving of businesses . for example , the development of savings in china began at approximately the same time as its policy of children in 1979 . this prevented the birth rate from being restored after the 1966-76 cultural revolution . the recent laureate economist francis modigliani , published in 2004 ( co-authored by shi larry cao ) , said this demographic change explains a large increase in savings , as chinese replaced investments in capital for children 's investments . but the growth of income and demographic developments does n't explain what you 're talking about .
while the concept is modern , the idea is not new , and it 's not new . practical people have long understood the importance of leadership in the area of leadership . in the 1930 " s , a former supreme court judge , a cruel old veteran of the american civil war , was taken to meet franklin d. he later asked about the impression of the new president , who was famous for the holmes : " intellect of the second class , a first-class temperament . " most historians would agree that roosevelt 's success as a leader was more emotional than his analytical iq .
a separate but current vote in the province of abyei , which is rich in oil , will allow voters to choose whether they want to join the north or south . the artificial fusion of mainly arabababababababababond , the muslim north of sudan and the african south , where christians and traditional animists are predominant , is a terrible failure . since 1956 , when sudan gained independence in the united kingdom , the country was gripped by an almost constant civil war based on the cultural and religious divide between the north and the south . the problem was subsequently complex by a separate conflict - this time between muslims - over the resources in the western part of the darfur region . if the non-muslim south gained independence , it is possible that the country would remain in peace .
when i was an administrator of the flood , i had to deal with the constant " requests " of government officials . they were usually formulated in an acceptable way and asked me to " look at " a specific issue . but i also received requests - often from the world 's superpowers - in a way that was clearly contrary to article 100 of the charter of the united states , and i had to spend much time trying to avoid the government 's involvement in such a way . however , my overall experience in the flood and world bank has suggested that staff and leadership can behave according to article 100 . since the member states " concerns and priorities were correct and normal , they did not take orders from them .
in general , the investor program for low-carbon countries attracted 477 signatories , representing about 34 billion assets in the management of assets . these investors demand that governments not only limit the rising temperature , but also to meet the climate agreement , which is more difficult to limit global warming to 1.5 ° c than those of the pre-industrial phase . meanwhile , the energy economy and financial analysis institute found that those who had not noticed the warning of climate change had already taken financial hits . the biggest fund manager in the world has lost about $ 90 billion over the last decade . and investors in general electricity , including black rock , lost 193 billion in three years before 2018 , as the company misjudged the pace of switching to green energy and the decline in demand for gas turbines and thermal power stations .
it is unlikely that , at this point , it will be in conflict with the united states . at such a delicate time , china would not gain anything to antagonize us . but the allies , especially the japanese , could bring us into battle , which would be a great priority to avoid . china is , in short , on the brink of large , necessary and dangerous transformations , which promise to change the country for better - or , in particular , to make it even worse . the whole world is taking a big stake in what 's going on next time .
the constitution of south africa guarantees the right to information about the public sector and , in many cases , private business information . south africa adopted a law on information about freedom in 2000 , five years before the uk . but now the right to information in southern africa is in danger . at the end of november , the lower parliament 's headquarters led by most of the most important national congress ( anc ) , which was largely approved by the new law - the protection of the state information bill - whose adoption would protect the country 's most powerful political and commercial representatives from public scrutiny . the novelist of the winning novelist of south africa and anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer has been compared to apartheid 's bill .
washington , dc - the chinese economy has slowed in recent years , but it is still a strong artist , contributing to a third of the total economic growth in the world . it is also becoming more sustainable , in line with the shift in its growth model , in addition to investment and exports , and domestic demand and services . china has called for new commitments to reform structural reforms to stimulate growth in advanced economies and emerging markets . but china faces serious risks at home , and it is not possible to risk it . domestic credit is growing at an unsustainable pace , and corporate debt is piling up to a dangerous level .
hong kong - at the start of this century , china launched its " going out " policy - focused on using foreign exchange reserves to support the expansion and acquisition of chinese companies - few expected the country to be the first economic player in latin america . but that 's what happened to me , and that 's what happened to me . the question is , if it 's good for latin america , it 's good . china has not played a rather marginal economic role in latin america for the best investors and trading partners in most countries , as well as its largest creditor and infrastructure builder . with economic plans in latin america , which are moving smoothly - a trend that seems unlikely to change anytime soon - china has now focused on another goal : it is expanding its political influence on the region and beyond .
but there is no question about which candidate putin would like to see in the white house . in comments following the press conference , he praised the ump as a " very colourful , talented person " and " absolute leader of the presidential election . " i 'm sure the two men deserve each other , and they do n't deserve each other . both are the perfect propagandists of the programme and the performance of the performance . and they are both ready - even eager - to bully , harangue and lie .
the first was to adopt a right center program and pursue labor-market policies , taxes and investments that would " adapt " to globalization 's capitalist . it 's a little surprising that this is the way he initially chose , and he quickly became the darling of an international press aimed at business . the other way would require macron to build on a pre-existing , but vague concept of internationalism . in practice , this would mean that policies would help the middle class , while updating an outdated program of center-left programs , which would take into account the effects of disruptive technologies and business models . as the economist dani rodrik has long argued , globalization requires a larger state to compensate for the displaced by free trade , liberalization of capital accounts and so on .
in a favourable scenario , people will be united in different states , depending on their preferences for large or small governments , public or private services , international cooperation or isolationism . ick mulvaney , the director of the trump budget , has made the case himself . " if you live in a state that wants to be a maternity cover for everyone , including 60-year-old women , that 's okay , " and if you do n't , " you can figure out how to change the state of life or change the state 's law and law , " in mulvaney 's words . " why do we look at the federal government and try to solve the local problems ? " in the case of vindictive , the trump and congress could , on the other hand , limit the rights of progressive states .
over the years , excessive reliance on traditional fuels discouraged investments in clean technologies for energy production , although both countries are innovators in green sectors such as energy storage and intelligent networks . while 22 % of the energy needs of south korea and 14 % of taiwan 's energy are met by nuclear power , these ratios are now set to fall dramatically . the plans are still being developed , but together with the commitments of both countries , they are a major shift in regional energy planning for greener technologies , cleaner . in addition , they will be able to increase investments in renewable energy facilities and to put their countries in a new competitive position on the regional market . the south korean strategy requires a gradual withdrawal from the nuclear industry by not restoring existing licenses and bans on future installations .
china 's leaders , under strong pressure from america , have essentially agreed to bring the renminbi to the ground , but they refuse to say when . the floating currency is inevitable , as china liberalizes its capital market and eliminates restrictions on international capital movements , otherwise china would have to give up control of its supply of money and interest rates . yet china 's rulers are right to postpone the decision to proceed with the flight . the chinese may not be able to delay , but they can not hide from the basic economic law : if the exchange rate between two countries is fixed and the capital flows between them are unrestricted , the economic dominant position will be in control of the monetary policy of the other countries . because the dollar is the world 's dominant currency , and america is in control of the supply of dollars if china is in a fixed exchange rate , it is not in control of its own resources .
we 're going to the race , so we 're going to be in the race . can we turn the tap into zero emissions before the tub reaches a level that exceeds the threshold of 2c set in paris ? in fact , even this level is not enough , and it 's not going to be so low . as the agreement recognizes , many scientists believe that warming above 1.5 ° c is risky , and that its adaptation will be very costly , especially in developing countries and islands . the good news is that if we stopped today , temperatures would rise for about a decade before stabilizing .
no one has any idea what consequences it would have for uk in the global trade system , nor for its effects on domestic political stability . i 'm afraid it 's not going to be a nice picture , but i 'm afraid it 's not going to be a good picture . you know , the west 's citizens are blessed to live in peace : the changing circumstances and priorities can be addressed by democratic processes , not by war abroad and civil wars . but what is a fair democratic process for making irrefutable decisions that define the state ? is it enough to get 52 % of the vote for a breakup on the rainy day ?
defense spending is 1.6 % of the total of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy and 1.5 % in september ; only france and uk are 3 % . but limited discussion about the commitment of defense to a percent of the gdp 's share of the military is inadequate , as defense spending is a scale economy . so we expect smaller countries to spend more time on defense than on larger ones . instead , america alone spends more than most of its allies together , and spending on defense in the next few years is likely to increase . security and global influence are not the only benefits that are achieved by military spending .
this month , at a 73rd meeting of the united states general assembly , there was a general sense of foreboding among world leaders . the anxiety was more than usual concern about what president donald trump would say , whether he was going to do or tweet . before the summit began , europe , the canoes , the mexican , the south korean , and japan had a serious consultation on the need for a new alliance to save multilateral systems . in the late 1960 " s , the former secretary of state dean acheson looked back at the immediate post-war era , and he felt as if he had been " present " in the creation of a new world , based on common rules and multilateral institutions . but this year , many people felt at the unga that they were at the destruction of the world .
in the medium term , the world is beginning to suffer from tense and potential crises that lead us to solve . as the events in the last two weeks of egypt have shown too vividly , the awakening of arab is only in its first act in many countries . democracy is , in fact , fragile , at best , across north africa , and in the middle of the east , the japanese , the white lands , the kuwait , and the saudi arabia , the tidal waves that swept the area , were beginning to feel the waves of tidal waves . iraq is deeply unstable , and the boiling conflict between iraq and the island could erupt at any time . even if we do n't have a front-line line , it 's a vital role in the field of diplomacy , nudging wary rivals closer to creating a united opponent , working with regional leaders like turkey , egypt and saudi arabia to negotiate .
in today 's germany , as no one has decisive power in trade , finance , or government has experienced the war , the european project is no longer considered a prerequisite for the collective future of the europe . these new leaders have only seen the euro as a trade regime , and they have not yet been able to act . meanwhile , german diplomacy is actively reconstructing the country 's economic and cultural spheres of influence , not just in the eastern part of europe . the impact of this lost euro perspective was clear in 2008 , when chancellor angela merkel 's first impulse was nationalistic and completely anti-euro . there would be no common european plan to address the crisis and call for public funds .
the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur . after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . these shortcomings are especially evident in the country 's podium , where the centralized political system creates a pernicious dynamic process of winning the wine .
when is a free-trade agreement bad enough , what do you think is going to happen ? if the main purpose of the contract is not to trade or to freedom . such a pact - calling for a " united economic space " - is now being signed by russia , ukraine , kazakhstan and belarus . on the surface of the " united states economic area " sounds like a applause . unfortunately , the agreement will only bring about corruption and criminal practices of the rench postcommunism , not to increase trade or prosperity .
the climb of the renaissance , the leading islamist party , is less a reflection of latent ideological support among the newly freed people than the evidence of the remarkable ability of the party to fill a post-revolutionary political vacuum . since january , more than 200 people have been opened at the mouth of the city . dozens of volunteers are deployed in electoral campaigns at the grassroots , the door to the door . the party 's imposing headquarters on the outskirts of tunis symbolize its position as the most effective political operation in the country . while opponents ominously recall the involvement of the party 's corpses in the deadly bombings of tourist targets in 1991 , the criticism has largely calmed down .
first , consider the dollar 's status as a reserve currency as a reserve , as governments around the world need to keep their dollars as a reserve for foreign exchange . the problem is that foreign shares in dollar securities are no longer " foreign exchange reserves . " in the past decade , countries had to hold a high liquid and widely accepted currency to bridge the financing gap if their imports exceeded export exports . the obvious candidate for this reserve fund was the treasury bills we had in the bank . but since the late 1990 " s , countries such as southern korea , taiwan and singapore have accumulated a large number of foreign reserves , reflecting the export growth strategy , and the desire to avoid repeated speculative currency attacks that triggered the 1997-1998 asian financial crisis .
by bad economics , i want to let financial markets decide what is going on . on the contrary , good economics recognizes the government 's duty to protect its constituents from distress , uncertainty and calamity . it is very difficult for liberals to accept that bad politics can produce good economic growth , and that good politics can produce bad economic growth . and yet the hungary offers a clear example of the first one . under the prime minister 's mandate , the country is becoming increasingly authoritarian .
the countries and organizations are already mobilizing , and they are already taking part in the process . the united state 's food and agriculture organization argues that increasing food prices could lead to an increase in global conflict . the world 's economic forum is a major risk for humanity to be a source of food security . the world bank has strongly emphasized the importance of agriculture in order to boost economic growth and to disrupt poverty cycle . the minister of foreign affairs has created a working group to define a common plan of action , and president nicolas sarkozy proposed a global partnership for food .
and yet negative yields are also in countries and regions where currency depreciates , and they are likely to be depreciated further , including germany , other parts of the eurozone 's core and japan . so why do investors have such assets , and they do n't want to lose their share ? many long-term investors , such as insurance and pension funds , have no choice but to keep safer bonds . of course , negative returns make their balance sheet more vague : the pension plan for certain benefits must be positive , and , if most of its assets are to yield negative nominal returns , it is increasingly difficult to achieve such results . however , given the long-term liabilities of these investors ( entitlements and benefits ) , their commitment is to invest in bonds that are less risky than in stocks or other volatile assets .
in the first year and half of the office , macron began to solve these problems and managed to deliver a budget in accordance with the rules for deficit instead of the deficit . the problem is that macron left his core center-left constituency in the implementation of reforms . gradually , it seemed that his reforms were constantly beneficial to the rich , and they were not so good . and so , when he announced that his government would increase the tax on diesel , medium and working groups , they took the streets . according to polls , around 70 % of french support was forced by protesters of yellow vest .
as it stands , the biggest obstacles to international cooperation may be political . in recent years , there has been a growing backlash against international cooperation , partly based on fears - which have been supported by populist political leaders in many countries - that transnational elites are trying to impose " globalism " : " ideology that prioritize neoliberal order over national interests . " but the perspective that refute this narrative seems to be getting the basis for it . many world leaders believe that western countries have wasted their influence on the international system by taking political and military action in other countries without clear end games . some also claim that global elite only pretended to pursue social change , while maintaining the status quo that benefited them .
thanks to an increase in inflation , real interest rates would be significantly negative , so they would be forced to make a more difficult household spending instead of saving . with growing demand , businesses will hire them , and everything will be fine . this is a different logic than the logic of inflation , which requires a reduction in long-term debt ( investment costs ) , but is also seriously weak . first , while low rates could encourage spending if credit was easy , it is not clear that traditional savers would go out and spend their time . think of a worker in a soon-to-retire office who 's going to retire .
although the g-8 promised clearly , there was no plan of how to carry it out ; indeed , there were clear instructions that such a plan would not be implemented . the g-8 is now reassessing the consequences of its inaction , which have been delayed . the first year after the meeting , the number of aid numbers was padded by misleading accounting for the cancellation of debt . with these debt cancellation operations , the data now reveals the truth : development aid for africa and poor countries is stagnating , contrary to all the promises made . in particular , the total aid for africa in 2005 to 2006 , with the exception of debt cancellation operations , increased by 2 % .
perhaps the biggest complaint in the last year was inequality in the case of the crisis . but at global level , inequality is falling , and the number of people in the world is falling . and , while inequality has increased in some advanced economies , this increase has not been particularly dramatic , and it remains at a reasonable level . but that 's not what an average citizen can see , and that 's what he 's thinking . according to the european bank for reconstruction and development , the new transition report , based on the life of the 2015-2016 transition period , which was developed by the world bank and the european bank ( where i am the main economist ) , is considered to be an increase in inequality , which is far beyond the reality described by official data , which is usually based on surveys of households .
washington , dc - the united states reserve system is one of the world 's most powerful government organizations . the central bank of america is in control of the dollar , and at the moment it is largely affected by interest rates , both in the case of short-term and long-term loans . and , although the fed fed fed partly by regulatory failures , which led to the near-collapse of the global economy in 2008-2009 , the post-crisis reform left it even more competent and more responsible for the overseeing of the financial system . this is a worrying outcome , as it seems that senior officials , who have been fed up with the food , have slipped back into their ways before 2008 , and they have not taken into account the concerns of dangerous financial behaviour - even if they express themselves to members of the senate bank . this is not just unfortunate , but also dangerous , as the political position of the food is much more uncertain than its leadership .
more fortunate than wisdom , this disastrous situation has not yet been developed , and it has not been so difficult to find out . if there is no global disaster - a meteorite impact , a world war or pandemic - humanity will remain a major environmental force for millennia . as a result , scientists and engineers face a challenging task during the anthropology era : to guide us to environmentally sustainable management . this will require appropriate human behavior at all levels and can also involve internationally accepted and large-scale geo-technical projects for " optimising " climate . but at this stage , we are still largely treading on the terrace of incognita .
in all of these cases , the cynic would be half right , and he would n't be right . constitutional change is welcome for political leaders , who are more resistant to the exchange of social policy . but there are at least two exceptions to the suspicion that it is not possible to believe . democracy is created , and the rule of law in countries that have recently been based on dictatorship . the process requires the constitution to create a complex and painful form of a substance .
this is a source of corporate profitability , prompting businesses to reduce investment and reduce them , and to further reduce the number of declines in ppi . the importance of real estate investments in china 's economic growth is reflected in trends in the first quarter of the year . annual growth in the gdp rate of 6.7 % , despite the slowest rate of the quarter in seven years , exceeded market expectations . and partly because of an unforeseen increase in investment in real estate , 6 % . this is not a claim that china needs more real estate investments .
but that does n't mean that trump skeptics can just sit and wait for them to be proved to be wrong , because it is possible that the trade deficit will be reduced for the first year , even if the real deficit of trade is extended . it all falls into " transfer pricing " - prices that multinational corporations use to value cross-border trade in inputs between their subsidiaries . consider america 's pharmaceutical company , which will set up a factory in ireland , for example . the illegal association imports some inputs ( mainly intellectual property represented by patent on drugs ) , assembles the product in ireland and exports it back to us . as regards added value , the patent is the biggest contribution to the market .
these recommendations included an increase in the availability of available transportation to family planning facilities , an expansion of access to modern contraception ( including emergency contraception ) , an increase in the availability of education in sex and developing strategies to reduce the stigma of abortions . and yet , given our policy , none of these changes will be easy . if countries such as southern africa ever escape the republican government 's attack on reproductive freedom , a new strategy must be needed to combat the global rule of abuse . the solution is at home , so developing countries must begin to move away from the aid , which is limited by the ability of health providers to work in accordance with local law . local gos and responsible global partners must find new support for programs that educate women about their rights and provide safe abortion services .
we want technology companies to play a central role in the provision of new ideas and ideas . we want businesses that already offer refugees online education , internet access , and technology to provide education to displaced and isolated girls and boys . in the creation of this fund , we will end the period of formulaic response . gandhi believed that the reflection could motivate the action by recalibrating our moral compass . what makes this fund unique is not a set of new reference values set out in it .
the civil society was driven by the idan revolution that led the former president of ktor yanukovych , but there was confusion . the debate about the association agreement with the european union and the russian insurgency in the east has resulted in tensions over differences that have previously played little or no role in the lives of people . but since parliamentary elections in october , ukraine has begun to unite . russia 's intervention must be somewhat backfired , strengthening the support of the euro 's orientation . eastern ukraine may have voted differently than the rest of the country , but most voters have come to europe .
regulators have now focused heavily on the implications of brexit , which will require complex measures to manage the new relationship between london and the eurozone . the main priority for the central bank of europe must be to maintain the integrity of the banking union in eu , which is under pressure both in terms of brexit and in the crisis gripping the banks of italy . in this context , it will be difficult to maintain the primary principle of global standards and ensure continued purchase - to the basel process . the new ceo of the international settlement bank , agustín carstens , former governor of mexico 's central bank , will play a key role , as well as the one who replaces mark carney ( the current governor of the european union ) next year as chairman of the fsb bank . it is also likely that the basel committee will soon be chair .
supervision , greater transparency in financial markets , an effective early warning system for financial crisis and better coordination of international policy . the crisis clearly shows that national supervisory authorities , which operate globally , are not enough . the lack of legislation has caused the side-effects of spillover to other countries . there were no mechanisms to address the crisis that would be used in global terms . it is clear that international coordination of regulation is needed , and that it is necessary to ensure that the legislation is respected .
europe can face threats of foreign ritorial sanctions in cooperation with china , india and russia . trade with iran can be easily denominated in euro , renminbi , rupees and rubles , avoiding banks . oil trade can be achieved through a mechanism for clearing the euro , such as an intransigent trade . in fact , the sanctions imposed by aliens are not a credible long-term threat . if we were to use them against most of the world , damage to the economy , the dollar , the stock market , and we would be irreparable .
countries should be advised not to include provisions on pari passu in future debt contracts , at least without specifying what is meant . these contracts should also include a collective-action clause , which prevents vulture funds from restructuring debt . if a sufficient proportion of creditors agree to the restructuring plan ( in the case of argentina , holders of more than 90 % of the debt were involved ) , the rest of the debt may be required to proceed . the fact that international monetary funds , justice and anti-poverty ngos , all associated with vulture funds , are revealing . but it is also a court decision , which clearly does not give much weight to their arguments .
it is easy to know what to do in this increasingly complex and volatile situation : look at multilateral consultation plans and " just do it . " as the recent semi-annual report of the treasury to the us congress noted , china 's plans are to " balance its economy : increase demand for domestic consumption and consumer growth , restore its financial system , and increase its flexibility in the exchange rate regime . indeed , balancing growth model is a central economic goal of china 's leadership . " but expanding demand and allowing real exchange rates in china will not be enough if other countries do not participate . oil exporters must further increase their fiscal spending , the japanese and the eurozone must increase growth through structural reforms , and concrete measures must be taken to ensure greater savings .
washington , dc - a gross domestic product is the highest rate of welfare for more than 80 years . but , as the world 's economy is increasingly complex and technologically focused , economists are increasingly questioning the usefulness of the gdp as a measure of the economy 's health , and some argue about a new radical approach . the experience of africa shows why such an approach is not necessary in the past . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries .
the idea that he should not take steps to protect his interests is ideological partiality disguised as objectivity , and that gives rise to the claim that the west is coming to him . do n't get me wrong : despite his imperfections , we remain a positive force . indeed , it may be the only strong positive force , as well as the european union , which should stop squabbling and begin to stop the megalomaniacal and illiberal leaders as hungary 's putin , the prime minister of the viktor orbán . moreover , the prospect of their new president being in his pocket should be worrying about americans . and the west 's policy on russia - economic sanctions or military exercises in border countries such as the country of the poland - is not necessarily wrong .
fortunately , there are signs of support that this commitment will be respected in the future . but there is a need for greater financial flows , especially in the private sector . according to the initiative for the oecd and climate policy , developed countries have mobilized in 2013 for $ 52.2 billion , and in 2014 , 61.8 billion dollars to help poor countries reduce greenhouse gas emissions and build resilience to climate change , which can no longer be prevented . although this figure is only an estimate , it is a preliminary , but credible indicator of climate finance based on the information provided by developed countries . if we assume that a greater leverage effect is on private investment , the number of private sector investments will be higher .
first , there is uncertainty about the global economy : will volatility and imbalances lead to collapse , or will there be greater resistance to resistance ? will governments and institutions be able to adapt quickly enough to change or overwhelm them ? moreover , while the conflict between states has declined , the internal state conflict caused by young people , identity policy , and limited resources will continue to plague some regions such as central east , south asia and africa . and that leads to another potentially changing issue of the game : whether regional instability is still contained , or fuels are not safe at all . then there are a number of questions about the impact of the new technologies on the market .
however , the irony is that we have exercised greater control of iraq 's oil industry under the " oil oil production " programme before the war ( in which the oil production program is not saddam hussein , has determined the level of oil sales abroad ) , rather than in any future democratic iraq . if the bush administration was looking for stable , safe , diverse and cheap oil supplies , it would simply pick up the embargos on libya , iraq , iraq , and the sugar would be released . but america 's interest in iraq 's oil has not been driven by economic and energy policy . the administration of the bush has recognized that iraq 's oil is a critical geopolitical asset . whoever controls iraq 's oil control , iraq , and whoever controls iraq , he 'll take care of iraq .
moreover , even if china becomes the world 's biggest economy , say , in 2018 , americans would be much richer than chinese , with a single capita gdp in america four times higher than in china . of course , inequality in income and social injustice is a capitalist culture in the west . but the challengers , like china and india , are not in a position to preach . capitalism 's ethical failings , compared to indian capitalism , are particularly benign in other countries . hundreds of oligarchs in india have 25 % of the total amount of resources , while 800 million of their compatriots survive for less than a dollar a day .
this principle usually means that marginal tax rates should be similar to different labor revenues , depending on the consumption of different types , for today 's outlays , and so on . from that point of view , the fact that we are not alone in the tax system is that the marginal tax rates are high ( due to testing welfare programs ) , and the highest ( due to the rate of graduation ) . the government has thus moved incorrectly since 2009 , and has increased the marginal tax rates at the bottom ( dramatically increasing the transfer programs ) , and has recently been at the top ( by increasing the tax rates on the rich ) . one of the most effective methods of raising taxes is the tax on payroll , which is the marginal rate of tax , which is close to the average ( as deductions are absent , and the structure of the rate is not high ) . therefore , the reduction in the rate of payroll tax in 2011-2012 , and the increase in the rate of the rate ( medicare side ) , was a mistake in the fact that effective taxation was applied .
if developing countries continue to be included in the global economy and do not take measures to reduce the impact of national prices on domestic prices - rice prices and other grains will increase significantly in international prices . for many developing countries , the high price of oil and food is a triple threat : not only do importing countries have to pay for the grain , but they must pay more to bring it to the country , but also to supply it to consumers who can live far from the ports . increased interest rates may reduce aggregate demand , which may slow the economy and reduce the price of certain goods and services , especially goods and services that are not traded . however , if these measures are not taken to an intolerable level , they can not lead to inflation at a targeted level . for example , even if global energy and food prices are rising by a moderate rate of less than now - for example , 20 % per year - and their impact on domestic prices , the overall inflation rate is three % , which would require a significant fall in prices elsewhere , which would almost certainly mean a significant economic slowdown and high unemployment .
so they do n't give up formally , and they do n't give up on anything . the leaders who failed and the groups who did not win became heroes because they were able to claim to be brave enough to fight the enemy without being crushed . the important thing for them is that they have gained revenge by inflicting damage , proving that they are real men , they have not been moved , and they have survived . such a formula is a formula for endless conflicts and endless defeats , and we will never be able to defeat them . but defeats do not force new attitudes , policies , and leaders to be defeated .
the fear of the rise of the first ( or actual ) fascism is misleading . the basic authorities of the american government have survived more challenges than any of those trump can pose . although america is divided into two parts in 2017 , americans remain committed to democracy 's central principles : free , fair , and regular elections , political protection , religious and economic freedom . it is unlikely that trump will try to reverse any of them , and even if he tries , he wo n't succeed . when he leaves office , we will be what he was when he entered it : the world 's most powerful democracy .
some professional organisations point out that patients need to be given patient consent , even if they have already removed the tissue from the patient 's body . today there are brain tissue banks , banks of breast tissue , banks of umbilical cord , banks of dna , and repositories of tissue to study various diseases . we 're all going to have a tissue on the file somewhere , and we 're still in it . who should have access to these samples , who should have access to them ? what purpose can they be used for ? - what purpose can they be used for ?
but with the power of the weak , powerful followers , they strengthen the leaders . leadership is widely distributed throughout healthy democracies , and all citizens need to learn more about what is good and bad . potential leaders can learn more about the resources and limits of emotional skills , vision and communication , as well as the hard-strength political and organisational skills . they must also better understand the nature of the contextual intelligence they need to educate and maintain the smart skills strategy . the most important thing is that , at today 's globalization , revolutionary information technology and expansion of participation must be more learned about the nature and restrictions of new leadership requirements .
the politician fought with morocco until 1991 when the un negotiated a ceasefire . this agreement should have set a stage for referendum on independence in western sahara for the next year - democratic solutions . but morocco prevented him from doing so , and he did n't even take it . morocco has also repeatedly prevented progress in the context of further negotiations , which have been carried out in the wake of the negotiations . he did so in spite of the security council , even if he went so far to prevent a special envoy from travelling to the region to set up a stage for talks .
in addition , both candidates maintain continuity - with the side of chirac 's gaullist for sarkozy and franois mitterrand for the royal - as well as rupture . the royal court is openly claiming mitterand 's legacy as a search for legitimacy , while sarkozy 's rejection of chirac 's legacy is more than just a matter of fact . sarkozy is largely considered chirac , while the royal family is clearly mitterrand with less . when voters decide in the spring of 2007 , their choice may depend more on negative considerations than in 2002 , when chirac faced an ugly national jean-marie pen . as in 2002 , the winner will be the one who does n't like the electorate or fears less .
with obama 's will to be - or will not be able to , because of the growing political partisanship at home - to lead the crisis as in the egypt , in libya and syria , the challengers of america 's primacy took a heart attack in 2014 , and we have become allies . we have to divide the world 's power somewhere ; if we do n't fulfill its main role at international level , the understudy will have to be completed . but china 's recent shift from the flexing of muscle-flexing and the fluence of interest with the so-called " us-led " order offers hope that this year , this year , it will not fuel the regional instability of the large scale . china has indeed withdrawn its oil base from the disputed islands of paracel , and its surveillance ship is less frequent . chinese officials are also more willing to talk about the creation of a code of conduct in the southern china sea .
the participation of workers in the workforce has fallen to levels that have not been seen since women have entered the labor market in large numbers . most americans " income and wealth are below their level long before the crisis . indeed , the income of a full-time worker is lower than it was in the last four decades . yes , we 've done a couple of things to improve the financial markets . capital requirements have increased somewhat - but they are far from needed .
the republican presidential campaign is a complementary element of uncertainty , and it is also a major issue . the two main candidates for the nomination , donald trump and cruz , say they would destroy the nuclear contract if they were elected . it is worth remembering the outcome of the same decision by president george wbush , which was taken by bill clinton 's " framework agreement " with north korea : the im regime was immediately established , and it was assumed that a nuclear bomb was developed . if we continue to lead the world , it is unclear whether the world will be able to lead . it is clear that politics , not global developments , will be the main determinant .
president vladimir voronin later gave the prisoners an amnesty . but many people remain in prison , and voronin is still in danger of allegations of opposition and romania about the organisation of the coup d'état . the procedure for the opening of the procedure was initiated against the parties to the proceedings . restoring stability and fair democratic system for moldova is important , especially as moldovans deserve the responsibility of the government . stability is also important , as the borders of the country on romance and the state of the european union .
before the fall , several autocrats were lauded by the world bank and the international monetary fund for their alleged success in adopting " right " economic policy . the subsequent mea culpa of the world bank is clear that the policy they prescribed for the arab old régimes could be problematic . this raises a raft of other questions , but it is also a question of which it is possible . did economists focus on the wrong indicators ? - what do you think ? - yes , i do n't know . did they deceive them with false conclusions , and they did n't know what they were doing ?
china decided to gradually appreciate the rmb , but it relied on capital controls to prevent hot money flowing . of course , the controls are not so clear , but they have worked ( so far ) , so china has maintained macroeconomic stability over the years . the main aim of china 's capital controls is to prevent non-residents from holding assets denominated in domestic property , which are unrelated to trade flows and long-term capital flows . but internationalization of rmb calls on non-residents to hold more rmbs and rmb-denominated assets . the rmb internationalization , the rmb deposits , which were held by the hong kong , reached $ 57 billion .
i do n't know , but it 's more than that , but it 's more . democracy is threatened directly in the country , where it should be the greatest cultural and political roots . trump does n't just want to repeat the past 's failed policy . he and his supporters also aim for the fundamental institutions on which american democracy is based , including courts , legal bodies , independent media and others . the nineteenth-century prussian military officer and theorist carl von clausewitz spoke in a polite manner about the end of the war , which would not come within a century of his death .
structural reforms can not be used in short order to stimulate growth in 2012 . instead , it is necessary to focus immediately on increasing investment and exports in economies with current-account deficit , such as france , italy and spain ( and united kingdom ) , and to stimulate consumption in surplus countries such as germs and netherlands . the european central bank has decided to support europe 's pean banks , and it must also support the real economy . while the official interest rate is only 1 % , solvent states , such as spain , pay more than 5 % for 10 years , while credit companies in italy can only borrow at a reasonable rate if they are at all . the european central bank should therefore be deterred by excessive deleveraging by the fact that banks increase their own capital , rather than achieve a uniform 9 % share , and that national governments should provide guarantees for lending to small and medium-sized businesses .
during the first term of prime minister aznar , his popular party privatized most of the public sector and deregulated many sectors of public service . his new government promises to keep the public deficit running , and to reduce unemployment . it also promises to reduce income tax , strengthen the social security system of the country and reduce the cost of throwing work . it is also promised to introduce real competition in energy and telecommunications , which is not yet privatized . aznar 's program is sensible , but it is still ambitious , and it is not possible to accept it .
the internet is now making every business life , jumping into business activities over the internet . a new report from the u.s. department of trade , the emerging digital economy , suggests that the internet is transforming not just american businesses , but also the world economy . in 1994 , three million people were using the internet , mostly americans , but also americans . in 1998 , there are 100 million people in the world who are in contact with the world . as recently as january 1995 , there were approximately 27,000 commercial addresses on the internet .
there is no reliable scientific evidence that food is causing disease , even though they are subjected to much more thorough checks than " natural " foods . ( natural foods may also pose health risks , as evidenced by recent studies demonstrating that the popular cinnamon type may cause damage to the liver . ) although there is a cross-pollination between the crop of gm and wild plants , there have yet to be a new superweeds . we should be happy about this - and perhaps the rules introduced in response to environmental concerns have played a role in this outcome . it is necessary to maintain regulations on environmental protection and consumer health .
the protection of the virus and the development of the virus are an uneven race of arms . the virus can only be a few hundred lines of computer code compared to hundreds of thousands of lines for anti-virus programs . we are told that we should not be afraid of large-scale cyber meltdowns , because none of them have happened , and governments are wary . unfortunately , another lesson in the financial crisis is that most politicians are not able to make difficult decisions until they actually take risks . let 's hope we 're lucky for a long time , and we 'll be happy .
taxes of these migrants would help developed countries to fund services for older people and their transfers would help their country 's domestic countries . this approach has enormous potential benefits , and it is also possible to achieve a positive impact . a slight increase in the number of workers in development countries would increase by 3 % more than removing all remaining barriers to trade . in addition , every dollar invested in this initiative would produce nearly $ 50 in return , which would make it extremely effective for limited resources . these impressive figures came from a comprehensive analysis carried out by a group of top economists , who were asked by my thinking tank , the copenconsensus center , and assessed possible population-related targets , so that they could identify the best global investments .
wellington - paracetamol ( known as acetaminophen in the united states ) is one of the most commonly used drugs in the world . it is a preferred medicine to relieve fever and pain as a result of its safety profile . the proposed alternative to paracetamol in aspirin may lead to an increased allergic response , thereby increasing susceptibility to asthma and other allergic disorders . since then , several epidemiological studies have been reported to be linked to asthma and paracetamol in the womb , childhood and adulthood . these studies have led to the fact that paracetamol can pose a significant risk factor in asthma development .
today , it is believed that the country has about 60 working astronomers , more than half of astronomers working on africa . " south africa is a jewel of astronomy african , " says charles mcgruder , professor of physics and astronomy at the university of west west kentucky . in a country that is deeply divided into an economic one , " what is the benefit of poor and poor space research ? " he asks physicist harold annegarn , professor of johannesburg university . " the answer , " he says , " is partly because we support a thriving intellectual community at the highest level , and we can train our generation of intellectuals . " the mcgruder , who is working closely with astronomers from africa , agrees that the space program for the region is crucial to raising the profile of scientific and technical careers in the world , where most educated people are still in finance or management .
since banks and investors did not have enough money to get into the net mega-business , the mega-bank was emerging in the form of a global bank cartel and a shadowy fund , each of which had its own shareholders . thus , unprecedented new debt was created to transfer value to the present , in the hope that the future would be repaid in a sufficient way . the logical outcome was mega-finance , mega-equity , mega-pension funds and mega-financial crises . the crash of 1929 and 2008 , an unstoppable rise in large technology and other ingredients of today 's discontent with capitalism , has become inevitable . in this system , capitalism is only a fad - especially after 2008 , which confirmed the overall control of society by mega-banks and mega-banks .
a few years ago , forecasters were convinced that global imbalances would come back when the crisis passed . it seems improbable that even china and us are not returning to the growth rate before the crisis or spending . and they are not even the original trade balances that will soon be restored . the us trade position will strengthen the shale-gas revolution , which will guarantee energy self-sufficiency and increase productivity , which will increase further production . emerging markets have learned that export surpluses are not guaranteed by rapid growth .
governments have collapsed on non-government organizations and targeted or shared the media . in the rest of the hungary press , there are still credible reports that the prime minister of the viktor orbán and his cronies are robbing money for their families and their co-workers . the orbán government has actually been subject to several investigations by the european anti-fraud office . despite this behavior , the orbán was elected before this month and his party of the fidesz , in conjunction with christian democrats , is now holding two-thirds of the parliamentary majority - enough to change the constitution . during the election campaign , the indian government saturated the country 's xenophobic anti-semitic propaganda .
following these discussions , the national institute of health ( nih ) has proposed guidelines that allow government funds to be used for research based on cells , but in this form , investigators are prohibited from creating new stem cell lines . this restriction requires that stem cells be obtained only from private or commercial sources , which are governed by the protocols set out in the guidelines . i believe that restrictions on government funds for the creation of stem cells , even if they are politically prudent , require significant scientific handicaps . we know that many of the misunderstood factors lead to embryonic stem cells losing their ability to distinguish between different types of cells . this loss of capacity to differentiate may be caused by a specific method of derived stem cells , the conditions of their growth and other changes in treatment .
however , the plan , which is far from adopting these contributions , would largely reduce regulators " regulatory authorities . for example , the plan would prevent regulators from launching bankruptcy in the mega-bank , and would leave it to its own managers . in the non-financial sector , companies that fail to succeed often wait too long before they declare bankruptcy , creditors can step in and try to push , possibly even to impose bankruptcy on a failed undertaking . while banks " regulatory authorities have the tools to similarly push banks , their most effective option is to declare bankruptcy if it is best for the economy . the use of this instrument could have serious adverse reactions , and the risk of using it could be severe .
copen-political rhetoric has changed the need to respond to climate change in general terms . investments in alternative energy technologies such as solar and wind energy are no longer affected by the environment . instead , we are told about the alleged economic payoffs , especially the promise of " green jobs . " unfortunately , this is not an economic point of view , but it is a reality . the copenconsensus center asked gürcan gülen , a senior energy economist at the energy economy , an economic geology office at the university of texas , to assess the state of science in determining , measuring and predicting the creation of green jobs .
however , it is regrettable that 28 articles of the treaty are very vague . it is absolutely necessary that this text be accompanied by a new method adapted to the present world in which we live - a world where politics is no longer being carried out in muted discussions about ministerial meetings or complex communiqués . the real involvement of civil society is the only way to support two struggling governments and overcome their conservatism . after all , we have reached a time when , in fact , the speed of events is even greater than money , and the ability to experiment in all sectors is a crucial factor in success . in today 's winner-market economy , most of the newly created wealth is flowing to those who innovate as quickly as possible .
somaliland and ethiopia , for example , are cooperating on the construction of a gas export pipeline from the region of the region of ethiopia , promising new jobs and income for people in the poorest and least developed parts of the world . although we can do much to help ourselves , the horn of africa can still benefit from international assistance . but the international community needs to provide more food and medicine to victims of hunger and drought . we need to invest in growth that will help us to secure jobs for people and products and resources for the world . this means promoting market economies and stable governments , rather than subsidizing failures and failing states .
the most important outcome of the recent election by the european parliament is not that conservatives and social democrats have lost their seats for liberals and green , and that the far-right nationalists have not achieved much less than expected . it is that citizens have voted much more than anyone has ever expected . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur .
we know hitler wanted to destroy every jew , woman and child . although mass killings are not rare in history , hitler 's plan to exterminate the victim was , if not unique , highly unusual . but the laudable effort to prevent such a thing has had an unfortunate impact . for , in our efforts to learn from history , we often learn bad things , or distort history to dubious goals . the memories of world war ii were also affected by the murders at srebrenica .
democratic principles require the organisation of society to be able to achieve both values as much as possible . but the path of specific actions that do not undermine freedom and equality between citizens is narrow . this paradox is inherent in democracy , and politicians are required to address the tensions that arise . but citizens must also maintain a formal and political meaning of citizenship , as state intervention is expanding to ensure that all of this is well . this could limit political freedom for greater equality , but it would also be possible to act in a way that would be the subject of a greater number of people .
do these figures reflect alarming imbalances , or do they have the usual symptoms of a boom ? if america 's growth rate in the next decade remains what has been in the last 30 years , the answer is simple and frightening . the price of the stock market would be too high , and it would be too high . households would behave utterly irresponsible , and they would not be able to behave in a way . the external imbalance would , in fact , be unjustified , and it would not be sustainable .
the evidence of baverez 's degeneration is not as convincing as he believes . for example , he cites the removal of industrial jobs as the most obvious evidence of the decline of france . but deindustrialization is common to all of the developed countries , and it is not possible to develop a strategy that would be common to them . in fact , the market share in the industrial sector , which was in the early 1970 " s , is better than most rich rivals in the country , and , unlike germany , uk or us , has remained the same . moreover , france is doing very well , according to better corporate efforts , foreign investments .
the second lesson i have learned is also useful for the eu , which is in a world where new forces are emerging , and where all actors from humans from the country of the country to the algiers must face globalization 's challenges and interdependence every day . this lesson is that europe has more friends than enemies in the world . these friends deserve respect and attention , and they do n't want to be afraid of anything . if it had n't been clear from the point of view that it was necessary to work with countries that are not members of the european union , and to feel responsible and fully pro-tagonists , the efforts to set up an icc and be so close to declaring a universal moratorium on death would not be successful . i know it 's not a new lesson , but i think about it when i think about multilateralism .
the problem is that empathy for american workers is in a tense position for workers in mexico and china , which would be even worse off without jobs than their american counterparts . empathy makes us more kinder to the people we have with the empathize . that 's good , but it 's also got a darker side , and it 's a little darker . trump , during his campaign speeches , used the tragic murder of a kate steinle , an undocumented immigrant who supported his anti-immigrant policies . of course , he did not offer any similarly vivid images of undocumented immigrants who had saved the lives of foreigners , even though they were reported .
financial markets and institutions , which have global reach , need a global macro-prudential regulator , not just a loosely organized college supervisory body . or it could be that national policymakers do not trust the imf , since it has essentially missed the global financial crisis . if so , the fund must regain its trust , and it will not be possible . this brings us to the fourth role of the imf , namely the use of its pulpit to warn us of the risks posed by large-scale policy . small countries are subject to market discipline , as you will be told by any latvian .
if the increase in wages is not reduced by increasing competition for work , the automatic effect of technological innovation is to increase the living standards . this is a famous argument for rich people against attempts by governments or central banks to stabilize prices . in any technologically advanced economy , prices should fall , except for several niche markets . entrepreneurs do n't need inflation to expand production , but they do n't need to be too high . they only need the prospect of more sales , but they do n't have to be involved .
in other words , the population is slightly larger than china or india , but its economy is about half the size of china , but larger than japan 's , and more than twice as large as india . these differences help explain why a number of new acronymic groupings have been cut out of n-11 , including mint ( mexico , indonesia , nigeria , turkey ) and fog ( which is washed up in south korea for nigeria ) . i did n't invent such groupings , but i came to them because i made a radio documentary about the mint in 2014 . in any event , they were in contact with the previous points i had raised , namely that in 2010 , mexico , indonesia , south korea , and turkey would be more than 1 % of the total amount of gdp . eight years later , the fog economy still has the chance to explain the future 2-3 % of the world 's core .
the great popularity of russian innovation in information warfare was that the existing technology was associated with a degree of denial , which remained below the threshold of an attack . we intelligence agencies have warned president barack obama of russian tactics and warned of the consequences of the two negotiations in august 2016 . but obama did not want to publicly call russia , or to take strong steps to fear that russia would increase the attack on election machines or voting rolls , and that he would threaten the expected victory of the country 's clinton . after the election , obama was expelled by russian spies and closed some diplomatic equipment , but the weak response underscored the deterrent effect . and since president donald trump has considered this issue a political challenge to legitimacy in victory , he has also failed to take a strong step .
cambridge - this year 's presidential election campaign in the united states is unique . donald trump has shaken up the campaign as a candidate communicates with voters and the republicans ' platform , with many positions deviating from the tradition of the press . but trump , according to tax policy , has made a party line - and that 's not good . of course , any assessment of the reported risks of trump 's position would be lost within a few hours . he will change his position with a rotating frequency , and he will repeatedly refrain from making statements soon after he does .
this year , however , the source of the connection with russia has increased and deepened . russian has withdrawn from several nuclear agreements , and the kremlin recently placed iskra that can carry a nuclear device with a mid-range range range in kaliningrad near the polish line . moreover , the ukrainian crisis is far from resolved : the ceasefire agreement with the minsk is not respected , and the armed conflict may increase at any point . and russia seems to have intervened directly in western democracies , using leaks of sensitive documents and funding for the right wing of the populists from the port pen to donald trump , who would support the kremlin . then there 's a russian role in syria , and it 's going to be a russian role .
so it seems we 're friends again - or maybe just resting before the dispute resumes . but the deeper question remains : why did trump repeatedly attack america 's oldest and most reliable ally ? why does he seem to be so deeply despise by the place of the place ? why should we try to undermine europe and not seek closer cooperation in the interests of economic and geopolitical interests ? trump 's approach is particularly striking , given that china 's rapid development as a strategic rival is the main issue of national security .
the report - the result of several months of discussions within the german foreign policy and security community - identifies germany 's current values and interests as a commitment to " dignity , freedom , democracy , law , and international order based on universal norms . " as uck said , germany 's " overriding strategic objective " must be " maintenance and maintenance " of this order . to achieve this goal , many bacteria must become a " shape of power , " a state that can solve problems and resolve conflicts that affect all international communities or their part . the traditional determinants of the power of states relative to other states - geographical , demographic , economic heritage , and military power - may , together with the availability of resources and technical skills - remain important , but they often lack the real influence of international policy . the shaping of power is building relationships and invests in institutions that allow it to work well with others and mobilize " coalitions and networks of like-minded states . "
and implicitly condemned gazprom 's monopoly policies , promising to help poland in diversification of gas supplies . he did not say a single negative word about the european union , the german union , or the french union . with his performance , trump managed to get enthusiasm from the political spectrum , not just from the crowd 's curators , partly thanks to his public welcome to the opposition leader , iech wałęsa , who supported the supporters of the pis , and remained the target of the jarosław kaczyć , the unelected leader of the poland . even radek sikorski , former foreign minister and a critic of the pis government , concluded : he made a strong reference to poland 's history , and he was very flattered by us as a pole . "
since all of this activity is carried out in the market for renminbi abroad , which is small and has only limited connections to the financial system of mainland china - china 's hesitancy in liberalization of financial markets and convertibility of capital-account convertibility - the situation remains controllable . in addition to the other forces of china - an annual gdp of more than $ 10 trillion , a rise of at least 4 % higher than the average , 3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , 40 % of the total amount of cash , and a massive trade surplus - and a crisis on the exchange rate seems highly unlikely . but that does n't mean there 's no danger , and i 'm not going to risk it . china , on the other hand , is interested in alleviating volatility - and , given china 's centrality in the world economy , the world is also interested . the key will be to get markets and policymakers on the same page .
many of the bishops almost openly claim to their flock : you should listen , think , or argue . you know , trust is a matter of heart , but it 's a matter of heart . if you do n't drink , you 'll beat your wife , and you 'll give the church money . even young men who study priests receive a very weak philosophical education , and they do so deliberately . in a church where the boasts of st thomas aquinas are so surprising .
as in all democracies , when the rule of law prevails , the members of a particular profession , including journalists , are not subject to any immunity from these types of serious criminal charges . freedom of expression and press guarantees turkey constitution and statutes . for the last 13 years , the turkish government has proven to be the main guarantor of the freedom of expression , in particular by reform of the judiciary . in addition , it should be noted that more than 7,000 newspapers and magazines are published in turkey and are being released every day , with nearly 5 million copies . of the five most extensive newspapers in the country , four support the opposition to the government .
there are indications that the authorities are doing this in the chinese sea . nationalism could become the main source of legitimacy for the ruling party , which can no longer be attributed to the rapidly growing living standards . we and the others will have to go back to make china do n't act so temptation . but these countries would be equally wise to signal to china that china is welcome to its place in the world 's leading countries , if it acts responsibly and in accordance with the rules for all . but the broader policy decisions will be made by china 's chinese , and it will be .
i think bubbles are social epidemics , supported by some inter-personal contagion . a bubble will form when the disease is growing for ideas that support the bubble . but the rate of contagion depends on the mindset that is difficult to judge . the big speculative bubbles are rare , and they do n't know what 's going on . ( small bubbles , say , at the price of individual stocks , are constantly being held , and they do not meet the answer to the question . )
the century has just ended with a simple ideology , both left and right . socialism was in court today , and they found it necessary to find out . the communist experiment is over ( except for a couple of douts , such as cuban and north korea ) . ideology of the right , represented by the washington consensus on neo-liberal market fundamentalism , was not much more successful , even if its failure was often unrecognised . the last half-century has shown that development is possible , but it is not inevitable .
by collecting or buying large data sets , campaigns can divide voters into strategic clusters using complex algorithms and deliver personal content to the most sensitive voters on the internet . microtargeting proved to be the most effective thing not to win over undecided voters , but to deter people from voting . it is clear from the evidence that donald trump 's microfocus operation in 2016 played a decisive role in the election of the presidential election in key states that he needed to win the election . second , as migration within eu increased , nearly 15 million euro countries live in other eu countries . as the population knows , it is difficult to vote abroad in elections , owing to difficulties in registering the host countries , paucity of the polling stations , and too complex procedures for the exclusion of votes .
the rest of the world must not be willing to build claims against china - at least not on the scale required for a viable exchange of reserves . even if the chinese authorities managed to achieve the full convertibility and ability of the renminbi , it is not possible to guarantee that the currency would be a global reserve , since it would be easy to establish a reserve currency . indeed , in three centuries of globalization , only three currencies were dominated : gold , british pound and dollar . although the deutschemark , the franc and japanese yen have offered them all a viable alternative to the dollar since world war ii , they have often provided better stock of value , which is less likely to be inflation , they have not yet reached a permanent inroads in the dollar 's share of global foreign-exchange reserves . it is also unlikely that global financial centers and reserve currencies have emerged in many countries where the legal order is well established , and where foreigners do not face any discrimination against the right .
in the light of the lessons of germany 's turnaround , it is necessary to distinguish between what government can do and what is still in the responsibility of businesses , workers and society . the only area in which the government is clearly responsible is public finances , but it is not a problem . in 2003 , germany achieved a fiscal deficit of nearly 4 % of the gdp deficit - perhaps not high today 's standard , but higher than the average of eu . today , germany has a balanced budget , while most eurozone countries are losing deficits that are higher than many years ago . the turnaround in german public finances was mainly due to a reduction in spending .
and if we ca n't rely on lab experiments to test causality , we have to test it in real terms using a large number of real-time data . this includes moving beyond the closed process of questioning and answers typical of the lab and using our ideas in society , more often than ever before . to see how things work , we have to build a living lab - that is , the community is willing to try new ways of doing it ( to be blunt , to act like guinea pigs ) . such a living lab is an open data city that i have launched with trento in italy , along with telecom genitals , telefónica , research into fondazione bruno kessler , institute for data management and local society . what 's important is that this living lab has approved and informed the consent of all involved , and they understand that they are involved in a huge experiment that aims to create a better way of living .
after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . since the military or central secret service is missing , it must use economic policy to achieve its political objectives . but the way europe 's policy tools work , it is clear that it is not appropriate to exercise power abroad .
canberra - the offs are part of life of an integral part of the trade . we all know this from our private budgets , and we do n't know what 's going on . to fix the roof , we should accept a less extravagant summer vacation . if we choose cheaper wine , we 'll be able to get some dessert out of it . trade also pervade environmental policy : the reduction of more pollutant , for example , leaves less resources to address other issues .
london - the british election , which is called the prime minister theresa , may be for the june 8 , will change the perspective of britain 's politics and relations with europe , but it is not necessarily the way the conservative party 's conservative party can claim a large majority . the scorched-earth defeat , which the conservative euroskeptics expect to cause britain 's internationalist and progressive forces , symbolized the daily headline of the election on the basis of the election announcement : " crush saboteurs . " but the overwhelming victory of june could eventually lead to even more stunning reversal , such as the hubristic march of the napolon on on moscow , when he destroyed all the opposition in the western part of europe . for three reasons , britain 's pro-european progressive forces could still have won the jaws of defeat . first , the british election could , in fact , extend the deadline for the withdrawal of britain from the euro union from 2019 to 2022 .
of course , in a different way , there are democratic security valves in this kind of confusion . it is more strange to argue that the rest of the world must face the built-in benefits of china 's exporters , since its authoritarian political system can not be changed . it is no surprise that the impressive prime minister is regarded as a favor for a political release . from the east to the west , politics is working as a diplomatic and non-optimal policy . and then again , maybe we 're lucky it 's not going to be worse .
princeton - the biggest unresolved issue in the european union is mobility . the integration process should facilitate and make europe more attractive to move from one country to another . according to this vision , the inhabitants of eu had to lose the nation and gain the continent . but some recent results suggest that they are more worried about the nation 's loss . since 1986 , the single european act has been repealed by restrictions on the functioning of other member states , the continent is , at the very least , a single labor market .
one option would be to become a federal federalism , and that would be a great deal . a democratic fiscal counterpart of the ecb and help to keep germany 's power would be a common political institution responsible for the electorate in the eurozone . but increasing enmity between eurozone member states and erosion of support for europe 's integration in creditor countries and debtor countries means that greater federalism is politically unfeasible - and , where appropriate , dangerous . it would be better to move to a more flexible eurozone , where national representatives would be more likely to be elected . with the restored rule of bailout , governments would have more room to pursue anti-cyclical policies and respond to the changing priorities of voters .
bogota , flexible , anti-ago - international economic coordination is necessary , since it is difficult to achieve it . during the global financial crisis , the g-20 became a primary forum for the adoption of basic principles in areas such as response to fiscal-policy and the role of international monetary fund . by underestimating the need to avoid trade protectionism and other pro-neighbour policies , it also put pressure on governments about what they should not do . in these respects , the g-20 was clearly a step forward , and the result was a step forward . however , as the g-20 recently tried to reconcile different national economic interests and recovery strategies , it was far less successful compared to its initial meetings in washington and london in 2009 .
the cambridge - in august - a roundtable , which includes the chief executive officer of america 's largest companies - combined annual revenue of more than $ 7 trillion - has updated its long-term statement on the purpose of the company . it is not just about shareholders , but also about shareholders , but also about their businesses , including customers , employees , suppliers , communities and environments . in fact , shareholders have finally reached the new list of companies in the ceos . and the main author of the statement , in his apparent exhilaration , says he felt like thomas jefferson was making a statement of independence . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish .
for example , neurogenesis in dentate gyrus , suppressed by acute and chronic stress , is increased by a series of antidepressants . one of the problems with most of the current medicines is that even in treatment , the decline in the overall depression is very high - around 70-80 % . this suggests that physiological processes leading to depression , which may also lead to structural changes in the brain , are not fully arrested , and therefore it is urgently necessary to take a new generation of anti-depression medication . if so , the new antidepressants would have to focus on progressive neurodegenerative changes in the brain that we are taking because the depression is so high that the treatment is currently available . lithium , a stabilizer in the mood and a neuroprotective agent , has the properties we 're looking for , although its toxicity is less than ideal .
the aim of parenting tiger is to get kids to gain as much of their skills as possible , and so it seems that they are leaning toward the " clever " side of the choice of " clever or happy . " that 's also the view of tty ming liu , who , according to the article , blogged in response to chua 's article : " parents like amy chua , are why asian-americans like me are in therapy . " a professor of psychology , a professor of psychology , studied suicide at the university of california , which is especially common among american women ( in other ethnic groups , men are more likely to commit suicide than women ) . he believes that the pressure on the family is a major factor in the treatment of the family . chua would answer that achieving high levels of success would bring great satisfaction , and that it would only be difficult to do it .
in some cases , it is a natural person , such as president hugo chávez of venezuela ( and other latin american leaders ) , or italian prime minister max berlusconi . they mostly go to political scenes from the edge , but they can form a highly personalised grouping , such as the jörg haider and his austrian freedom party , the jean-marie lepen , and his french nationalists , andrew rzej , and his loyal party of peasants , or the prime minister robert fico , and his leadership in the czechoslovak . the list of names can be added to many of the names that have been inserted into the list . the list will tell us two things , and we 'll get to the end . one of them is that many populist leaders have managed to gain power over the last few years .
fewer people bother to get married and the marriage is less and less considered a union . families have fewer children and more children . so one of the " unintended consequences " of the bill could be that they would welcome recruits to the ranks of married , even if they were historically unusual . after a long search of souls , i voted for the bill , though i did n't have an acute sense that i had struck a blow to freedom . the minority has a clear advantage ; the majority of the minority is not clearly damaged , and long-term consequences are unclear .
ronald reagan was a master of the selected episode of the well . the right example is another key form of communication for the leaders of the group . the prime minister lee sien loong announced that he would not go on the rise . as a result of the recent financial crisis , some business managers voluntarily reduced salaries as a means of communication of concerns about employees and public opinion . during the presidential election campaign in 2008 , obama was a talented communicator .
london - the current antibiotics are becoming increasingly ineffective , not only in the fight against common diseases such as pneumonia or urinary tract infections , but also in the treatment of infections such as tuberculosis or malaria , which are now at risk of incurable . with the g-7 leaders who have recently made joint declarations to combat " antimicrobial resistance , " it is time for more inclusive g-20 and porcelain to chair the group for the first time - to fight at the next level . if amr fails to address any changes , regardless of nationality or development levels of their country . by 2050 , ten million people could die of a million people , and today , china and india would be living in a million people . at this point , it will be lost by an estimated $ 100 trillion in the global budget .
sysydney - the appointment of five communist party leaders at provincial-level chinese in early december , reminds me that china 's next generation of leaders , who will take power in 2012 , may be the most important development of chinese politics since the start of the government of xiaoping in 1978 . the coming generation of leaders will be the first one with minimal or no personal memories of the turmoil and suffering that have been suffered during the era of mao zedong . she forgot that history could ruin china 's mistakes , but it could also ease restrictions and release its leaders . all five people were born after the founding of the people 's republic in 1949 . two of them , chunhua and zengcai , are only 46 years old .
in the end , there is a chaos scenario , and the situation is in the end . for example , cyber superbug will destroy networks that depend on our lives , and it will cause demographic , demographic , and environmental collapse . in this set of possible outcomes , one point is clear : the uncertainty of the europe 's role in the future global system . in order to prevent an inevitable decline , the euro must make clear decisions about three fundamental issues . first , leaders in the eu eu eu area must determine how to solve the eurozone crisis .
but bank deleveraging ( which is caused by stiffer regulatory requirements ) , along with negative interest rates , caused a fall in equity prices of financial institutions , leading to further pro-cyclical destruction of value by price reduction , increasing the illiquidity and overcrowding of the market . the experience of the past has taught china 's real engineers that the only way to escape the deflation is to overcome painful structural reforms - not simply money , and competitive devaluation . the question is whether we and other reserve currency countries will share the burden of maintaining global currency stability by agreement similar to the 1985 square , in which five major economies have agreed to destroy the dollar against japanese yen and german deutsche . if not , why would asia 's net creditors , especially china , continue to speculate about themselves ? the dollar is safe , but the savers still lack an impartial creditor .
and a lot of traffic - new cars smuggled through the tunnels under the " philadelphi route " that leads along the border with egyptian . but life is traumatic , too , and it 's limited to the fact that it 's a real life . we could see the buildings - not just former headquarters of hamas - still in ruins . the houses are filled with bullet holes , and they 're all over the place . there 's not going to be electricity for eight hours a day , and i 'm not going to be able to get out of here .
many central bankers are like a hung general who wants to fight the last war . but , unlike the military strategy , flawed monetary policies are not only a threat to the crisis . despite inflation , central bankers are still fighting it , and the outcome may not be to face the latest threat of economic threats - global deflation . the fall in prices has paralyzed japan 's economy for a decade , and it is not possible to believe it . china and hong kong have recently seen prices fall , and they have also fallen .
even if we do n't get away from the jcpoa , it 's only two ways to prevent the implementation of an agreement between ireland and the rest of the world . the first one would be to fight the war , but it would be a war . this is obviously a program for us , especially when john bolton is a member of the white house 's national security adviser . the world must be constantly resisting another devastating military adventure that we have to overcome . alien sanctions are the second option we can kill jcpoa .
it was probably the answer to this impasse that china had pushed forward with the determination of aiib . the size of china 's economy - and its diplomatic burden - is a fact that you ca n't want to lose it . the containment strategy worked well for america and its allies during the cold war , but it is not possible to use it today without flexibility and strategic common sense . critics of america 's policy point out that even if we had tried to build aiib , china would continue to produce power in asia and the rest of the world . they claim that the influence of newly created international organizations is more likely to weaken the use of raw energy .
tel aviv - president donald trump has spoken much about foreign affairs without saying anything . his confused statements do not provide much understanding of what kind of foreign policy he will pursue , and there is no reason to believe that , when he approaches the world , he will be the one that united states - or the world - need . trump is a businessman , not a statesman , but a businessman who 's not a businessman . he thinks of immediate profits and losses - a worldview that is exemplified by his statement that we allies need to contribute more to the security alliance . at a time of evolving challenges and increasing threats , it is unlikely that isolationist approach will be good for anyone .
in 2009 , the business was 75 % of the financial support for the company , 73 % in south korea , 72 % in china , 67 % in germany , and 60 % in germany , the biggest investors in the area of r & d , are already spending more than twice as much as in japanese businesses . but trade investments in the same way have changed very little over the last decade , while in many other countries , including china , china , singapore , south korea and the island , have increased rapidly . international multinationals are the biggest business and investment in the business sector . international companies , for example , are located in the us or elsewhere , and 84 % of private investors ( non-bank ) in 2009 are about as much as a decade ago . international international action is still in place at 84 % of their activities in research and development , often in innovation clusters at universities .
beijing - measured by a percentage of people living in cities , currently has a rate of urbanization in china at approximately 48 % , according to official statistics . given that the share of the city dwellers was only 18 % , this is a remarkable progress . but it is still unsatisfactory , as most other countries have experienced a faster urbanization of the development than industrialization . china 's urbanization has been lagging behind its industrialization , which is currently approximately 70 % measured by the percentage of labor forces , whose income is mainly derived from non-farm activities . another significant difference between china and other developing countries is that chinese cities , large and small , are not marked by significant urban poverty or slums .
democracy , whether or not implemented , was the only alternative to chaos and the emergence of fundamentalism . iraq may be on the verge of a civil war between the shadows and the sunnis . the iran under the new and more radical president is moving to possess nuclear power . the free election process brought chaos to power in palestine , and an unfortunate episode of the danish newspaper cartoons was illustrated by an almost combustible nature of the relationship between lam and the west . all of these developments are a path to new interpretations , and they are very useful .
this made it easier for lula , in particular , to bring his socialist allies and distance from vez , who had recently been behind the march of 2008 , following the short invasion of colombia to the ecology of the country 's commander raul . the uncompromising line of drug dealers in mexico , which is an unrelenting offensive , which is the result of the precedent that uribe has done with the farce , has also been helped , as economic growth has muted domestic resistance . the emerging uribe-lula-calderón troika has a geo-strategic influence , as things have changed since the formal hand of the presidency of fidel castro to his brother raúl . latin america is obsessed with this transition , and yuri , calderón and lula do n't want to let chávez lead . last january , lula visited the island with a series of leading brazilian businessmen and signed deals with trade and investments worth $ 1 billion .
before our eyes , there is a tragedy in several acts that are clear to the players and their objectives . it is not known how many other acts will be taken by this sad political spectacle , and thus when and how it will end . the first act began in 2013 , when president vietnam yanukovych duped the european union and its leaders by refusing to sign a long-term association agreement . instead , he decided to send a kraine to russia 's customs union , in exchange for a pile of money , oil , and natural gas . russian president vincent putin , as it seemed , achieved his political goal , namely to bring in the ukraine that had been drifting to europe for the post-soviet period , and he had firmly returned to the sphere of influence .
although the number of participants increased from the original 15-25 , most countries did not express their voice . but there is a bigger question lurking behind the ge : can norms really limit state behavior ? most experts agree that the global cyberspace agreement would be politically impossible ( although russia and china have submitted such proposals in the united kingdom ) . however , in addition to formal contracts , the legislative restrictions on states are also included in the code of conduct , the usual state practice , and the general expectations of proper conduct between the group ( which create common law ) . these restrictions may differ from a global , multi-party , bilateral , and bilateral .
of course , monetary policy also has a redistributive effect on the distribution of funds . think about the different effects of interest rates on debtors and creditors , and the situation of the state of the state of interest . but monetary policy is much more awkward , more indirect , and inaccurate , and more difficult to choose than fiscal policy . independent central banks can sometimes be a problem for politicians , but at least they can be used as scapegoats when needed - a role that is more than the cost of losing control over the useful instrument . these considerations should be guided by the choice of what will follow the european stability pact .
china did not suffer from a lack of liquidity during the global financial crisis . thus , low interest rates and non-market interventions , rather than demand from businesses , increased credit growth in the first half of 2009 , exceeded the target for the entire year . if commercial banks were allowed to base their decision on lending only to economic reasons , the supply of credit and money would be slower , limiting the risk of rising the debt ratios , the gradual redevelopment of the undertaking , the inflation pressure , and the resurgence of asset bubbles , as excess liquidity would reach the equity market and the real estate market . indeed , china 's housing prices have soared in recent months , and the number of people in china has increased . the government was too generous to help revive real estate demand , and , despite the fear of negative impacts on economic growth , it was too cautious to deal with bubbles when they came back .
now , the constitutional reform , which is supposed to be " support turkey membership " instead , would further limit the military 's role as a guardian of the state of secular and strengthen the government 's control over the judiciary . the erdogan islamic revolution has also expanded into the educational system and has significantly expanded with religious curriculum . a new law recently issued a teaching system of arabic mandatory schools . it is difficult to imagine a more symbolic blow to ataturk 's vision . erdogan believes that the exercise of turkey capacity for mediation will bring back the burden of its ottoman forbears as guarantees of peace and security in mashreq .
he remained skeptical about the idea of an irrefutable procedure , and he did not believe it . the better would be to change only from practical initiatives , not from sunday speeches . thus , european integration must have been created by real policies and institutions , not by decree . so he and giscard have created the european council ( composed of heads of european governments ) , which is now a major player in the european union 's institutional establishment . they have pushed for the idea of monetary integration , which has been delayed by a generation later .
after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . for britain , the prospects are suddenly much clearer and better than ever since 2016 . although the likelihood of a constitutional crisis could soon be overcome by the prime minister , political conditions will stabilize after the period for renegotiating the relationship with the environment is extended from a new very soft , april 12 to the end of the year .
it is no longer dreaming of becoming a " united europei " state , and the proposals of " united european nations " are too ambivalent , though not deliberately ambiguous , to be effective . after the irish " no , " can the union find salvation in nato 's idea of a coalition of willingness ? can the most determined europeans from the pack leave without being paralyzed by the coalition of non-volunteer people ? of course , the ish " no " is not the same as what the afghan quagmire represents for the nato . but it also represents a major obstacle and challenges for institutional , political and psychological reasons .
what is also required is a dose of realism , which is why it is not possible to use it . the battle against the islamic state is not a conventional war , but it is a war . we ca n't erase it or destroy it once , because it 's a network , and the idea of it is an organization , and it 's de facto a state that controls territory and resources . terrorism is , in fact , one of the scourges of this era . but the good news is that the threat posed by the islamic state to the middle east and the rest of the world can be significantly reduced by sustained and coordinated measures .
if this fails , the left will be in power and will reverse the years of reforms and progress . but the exchange rate board will also help to start financial intermediation for smes , who have starved their capital experience in the area of recurrent crisis and unfavourable credit . small and medium sized businesses need to be part of mexican capitalism , which is why they are not the subject of the project . the economy of mexico has been good for several years , and it is not difficult to achieve a booming american state of next year , and to achieve great liquidity in global capital markets . mexico 's own success in rebuilding the executive board ( the value of oil exports increased ) has contributed to good results , as well as the determination to continue , and even to extend reforms of mr zedilla 's predecessor , president salinas .
it requires a sense of social responsibility that accompanies and cushions are undergoing a painful process of modernization . people who are suspended between lost past and future , which have not yet been gained , need help . such assistance will not produce immediate results , but the awareness of the medium term , which means that it is prepared to face it by delaying immediate satisfaction , is also a sign of liberal order . that 's why we 're not fighting al kaeda , but we 're not a war . it is partly self-defense , partly the claim of a legal standard in difficult circumstances , and in part constructive efforts to remedy the causes of frustration .
groups such as the syrian national council are free associations of individuals and groups , many of whom are not members of syria . these groups criticize the ama administration and others for failing to present a united front , formulating a credible agenda or being regarded as a viable alternative to the existing regime . but these groups have limited influence on local opposition groups in syria , which are equally diverse and divided . among these groups , radical islamists have gained a foothold in the area . fear of further takeover of the islamist is the second main argument against toppling assad , but the longer it is in power , the greater the profits of islamists in the country .
but this was n't a case of excessive regulation and excessive excess regulation , and it was n't . on the contrary , the 30-year-old financial deregulation was possible by capturing the hearts and minds of regulators and politicians on both sides of the aisle , giving the elite private sector - mostly on the street on the wall - nearly all the upside down in the boom . the downside was pushed into the rest of the society , especially relatively uneducated and underpaid , who now lost their homes , jobs , hopes for children or all of the above . these people did n't cause a crisis , and they did n't want to be involved . they 're paying for it , but they 're paying for it , and they 're paying for it .
the recent decline in the production of france 's industrial production has caused considerable trade deficits and undermines the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises . unemployment is about 11 % , with a record of 3.3 million workers registered as unemployment without jobs in the octane system . political crisis also prevents the government from pursuing difficult reforms . the french leaders have demonstrated that they are unable to communicate effectively or use the experience of the past in analysing the existing threats . instead , they resort to different tactics of sionary when they engage in exaggerated rhetorical battles about minor controversies .
mumbai - as the indian elections will begin next month , there will be a reason to celebrate : the extreme poverty will finally be in retreat . in 2012 - two decades after the government launched a series of economic reforms aimed at opening the economy - official poverty rates reached 22 % , which were below half the rate in 1994 . but it 's time for india to raise its desires , and it 's time to give up . escape the ject step , though a significant milestone , is not the same as achieving a decent living and sense of economic security . to that end , there 's still a lot to be done about it .
once the war began , there was not much room for diplomacy . but , far from diplomacy , trump 's adviser to the sebastian gorka recently told the press that " the idea that secretary tillerson will be talking about military affairs is simply nonsense . " but why should n't the us 's top diplomat have a significant influence on military affairs ? if this is not going to change soon , we can , as the british prime minister david george wrote about the world war , " [ muddle ] , " again . the south korean political leaders must also avoid the fact that this intensifying war rhetoric is being lifted .
also , alemán faces a revolt in his liberal constitutional party , led by former minister of the ministry of finance , a presidential hopeful supporter of the party 's liberal wing . if alan blocks the candidacy of montealegre in the election and pushes him into another political party , the chances of winning the presidency will increase sharply . the business interests that finance political campaigns face a difficult dilemma : would it be better to align with a plc dominated by corrupt alemán or support a new democratic power and risk of helping to win ? although the three-way race is purely speculation , it is clear that it offers the best of all electoral worlds . it is so tempting that the oracle will help rehabilitate the armenian alemán and bet that the release of his political interests will serve him .
the friedman and the key have agreed that macroeconomic management is needed - that private economy can be exposed to unbearable instability , and that strategic and strong , but only limited economic intervention of government institutions is needed to maintain stability . but while the key was to keep the amount of government spending and private investment stable , as friedman was the key to keeping the money - the amount of purchasing power in the easily spendable form of businesses and households - stable . a relatively small technical difference in means , you might say , but i 'm not going to be able to say . the difference in opinion , which depends on different judgments about how the world works , which ( and ultimately ) could be solved by empirical research . and you 're gon na be half right , and you 're gon na be right .
but speculators are thinking about the future higher interest rates in 2015 , and they are now moving away from the commodities ; the result is that the price of the next year will be reduced to today . the fourth channel , the exchange rate , has already been operational , and the system has been operational . the prospect of monetary tightening is consistent with the european central bank 's moves , and the japan bank , which is aimed at strengthening monetary stimulus . the result was an appreciation of the dollar against the euro and the yen . the euro is reduced by 8 % compared to the dollar since the first half of the year .
i also knew that the un human rights council had repeated the sentence of israel over the last two years , but it did not focus much on the large violations of human rights in other countries . this pattern of action and inaction by the council has given greater confidence to those who believe that the highest human rights authority is also against the israel . i have decided that i can not carry out the mission for that reason . i know that judge goldstone , a dedicated and unimpemountable lawyer and advocate , has shared similar concerns when he was first contacted . but he was able to work with the president of the council to secure a deal that he believed would allow him to interpret the mandate so that his team could address the actions of the two parties in the conflict .
in the early cold war , communism and soviet union had considerable strength . many communists led the resistance of fascism in europe , and many people believed communism was a wave of future . but the soviet soft power was undercut by stalin 's crimes in 1956 , and in 1956 , the repression in the hunt for hunters , the czechoakia in 1968 and the poland in 1981 . in theory , communism was aimed at establishing a system of justice , but lenin 's heirs kept the household 's power through a brutal security device that contained deadly wounds , gulags , broad censorship , and ubiquitous informants . the net effect of these brutal measures was a general loss of confidence in the system .
coronado , california - most people do n't think charles darwin is a psychologist . in fact , his work was revolutionized by the field , and he did n't know what to do . before darwin , the philosophical speculation was shaped by our psychological understanding , and we were able to understand it . but even the great philosophers - plato , hobbies , hobbies , hobbies , hobbies , kant , schopenhauer , nietzsche , and others - could only describe the current mental events and behavior ; they could not explain their causes . darwin understood deeply that evolution had affected the shape of our minds as strongly as they had in the shape of our bodies .
it is difficult to assess the impact of any research project on the project . as a professor at harvard medical school , marc kirschner pointed out in a thoughtful editorial in the journal sciences : even senior researchers can underestimate the importance of their findings at the time of their acquisition . when salvador luria , a university microbiology professor , received a nobel prize for physiology or medicine in 1969 , he spoke eloquently and sent a humorous cartoon to everyone who congratulated him for the award . he was depicted by an elderly couple at the table where he was sitting .
and when the full implementation ( 2027 ) is fully implemented , it will increase taxes on most americans in the middle ( second , third and fourth ) . the tax code has been regressive for a long time before the presidency of trump . indeed , a billionaire investor , buffett , one of the world 's richest people , has complained famously that he did not pay a lower tax rate than his secretary . the new legislation makes america 's tax system even more regressive , but it is not a tax system . it is now widely recognised that growing inequality is a key economic problem for the united states , and those who have achieved nearly all the benefits of the gdp in the last quarter-century .
the question now is crucial to policymakers , whether employment workers should be classified as independent contractors or employees of platform companies , which have contracts for employment and services provided to their customers . california , which is a state of more than two million independent contractors , has tried to resolve this issue with a new law , a bill of california 5 , which is consistent with the legal criteria for determining how to assess workers . the application of the " abc test " three parts , which many states already use to determine whether an employee is entitled to unemployment insurance , is less than 5 , and businesses are significantly more difficult to classify their employees as independent contractors than employees . the lawmakers , for example , have benefited from political support for the ab5 , and they have exempted many types of independent contractors such as doctors , dentists and real estate agents , since they have set their own compensation rates , directly communicating with their customers , and at least twice the minimum wage . but ab5 includes more than 400,000 workers who are driving for platform companies such as the distribution of services to customers , ber and lyft , and doordash for food delivery .
worse , the modi government first invoked section 7 of the rbi act , which allows it to directly issue directions to the central bank 's governor in matters of public interest . the modi government 's willingness to go so far suggests that more than interest rates are at stake . the government is particularly unhappy with the measures of the bi to clean up indian banks , many of which are burdened with a large number of non-performing assets , and to prevent risks arising from building other parts of the financial system . these measures are squeezing the ability of state banks to lend to clients who are politically connected . of course , government ministers do n't have to go out there and say it .
as any democratic politician attest to his expectations , he may be the toughest opponent in the election . i 'm just asking the french president , nicolas sarkozy , if he 's not a good man . of course , abe did n't have to face the expectations of sarkozy and , in that case , president barack obama . it is not that abe 's 2012 campaign lacked ambition , he set up a bold agenda for economic reforms , and promised to strengthen the global influence of japan . but after two decades of leaders who - except for the junichiro koizumi - promised little and achieved no result , the japanese voters had no reason to expect him to follow his promises .
those who carry at least one gene variant , which does not allow the body to metabolize , have a 300 % higher risk of continuous treatment . this difference in genome is exceptionally common , in 30 % of the euro 's origin , and more than 50 % of the asian origin . in many of these patients , doubling the dose of plavix and checking platelets with a dose of immediate care to prevent suppression can be eliminated . there are other medicines such as prasugrel or ticagrelor . the story of interferon given to patients with hepatitis c virus for a year is particularly striking .
after all , the war , the colombia , and the rest of the world , is often unites , while peace divides them . the consequences of a real end to the conflict with the korean armed forces would be far beyond the limits of the country . if the venezuela of chávez has become a narco-state in which the acolytes of the regime are drug lords , it reflects their privileged relations with the farce . the consequences would also be reflected in mexico , where drug cartels are destroying the country and us , the world 's biggest source of demand . it would also be affected by west africa , which has become the main transit point for south america 's drugs heading for europe in recent years .
the budget is at the core of the fact that poverty is being reduced , both economic growth and investment aimed at the poorest . the rapid economic growth is based on private sector investment . the budget therefore supports critical areas of reforms and support for growth , including measures aimed at deepening the financial sector , promoting exports and liberalizing direct investment . but the key thing is that the budget is not just an economic point of view to raising living standards . the second pillar of poverty reduction is aimed at poor people , especially for poor people in the country .
in fact , exaggerating the threat of islamist terrorism , while at the same time , the threat of populism in the right wing , it could have been directly played by russian president vladimir putin . the fight for prioritising threats is not just for the west , but for the west . in the middle of the east , countries are trying to find out who 's supposed to be hidden . the islamic state is among the frontrunners , ian and israel . the answer is clearly iran for the island ( and saudi arabia ) .
cambridge - we 're the secretary of the treasury , steven mnuchin , hemmed in on all sides . he is trapped between promises ( such as " mnuchin rule " ) , which would not be cut for rich ) , the actions of president donald 's trump ( whose tax plan includes cuts for rich ) and simple arithmetic ( which prevents the government from doing so ) . but even at international level , where we are generally more receptive to finance secretaries , it is likely that mnuchin will have a tough time . after all , the trump administration has made clear that it does not intend to carry out global commitments to the leadership that the predecessors of mnuchin have observed . given trump 's belief that international negotiations are merely a forum for unilateral demands , how can it be - who , like his boss , lack government experience - convince other countries that the common rules and standards , such as open trade , are in the interest of everyone ?
how should we assess how the agreement reached in paris this month at a conference on climate change between the united states ? as soon as the agreement was announced on december 12 , the debate began to erupt . some environmental environmentalists have disappointed that the agreement has not determined to limit global warming to 1.5 ° cellophane by 2050 . but such a commitment would not be credible , and it would not be possible to trust him . in fact , it came out in paris , because negotiators were able to agree on practical steps in the right direction .
the muslim professionals , who feared their safety , began to walk into ghettos . the muslim charitable organizations , often funded by saudi arabia and other arab countries , began to move to social life , where the state failed to fail , especially education . as a result , thousands of muslim boys were enrolled in school . unfortunately , they were educated in religious seminars , which aroused a deeply intolerant fundamentalist type of islam . with discrimination soon being cut across the line of classes , there were still growing numbers of indian muslims seeking to find a link with muslim communities in the world .
today , private companies employ more chinese workers than state-owned enterprises . private companies , with a small share of soes , are using much of the proletariat , providing demand for goods by proletarian consumers , and , given their high performance , they protect the interests of proletarian savers by returning their bank loans . why most pundits do n't like workers protesting , not in the liberal provinces of zhejiang and guangdong , but in the northeast socialist bastions , it 's a mystery . workers do not protest against the menial work of capitalistic wenzhou , but against the fact that they do not have a social job in the shenyang . the government can not pay the unemployed to pension workers , as socialism has funded its finances .
poorer or smaller countries can hardly dream of winning the european championship , such as the one in which the red ( in the form of a serbia ) , or in the nottingham forest ( which is now languishing in the english third division ) . but while we see inequality and exclusion in football at club-level , the opposite is true for national teams . the average winning margin between the eight world teams , which were still below two objectives in the 1950 " s , was about 1.5 targets in 1960 , 1970 " s and 1980 " s , and only 0.88 targets were achieved in the 2002 world cup . the same is true of all the games that have been played in the final tournament , not just the players of the eight best national teams . the reduction in the winning margins is even more impressive , as the world cup has grown from 16 to 32 national teams - many of which are new and inexperienced .
the budget is based on the best of all worlds , not on blue chips , in which interest rates remain low , but the growth rate is around 2 % . with real interest rates adjusted to inflation , the interest rates remain close to record lows , a significant increase in long-term growth , as government forecasts , would be unusual in the past . in the document on the issue of omb , the real interest rate for three months is expected to be below 1 % over the course of the decade . in addition , in that projection , the premium for the duration of the term is almost entirely lost . at the moment , the 10-year treasury offers more than three times the yield on three months of the treasury .
but this antagonism reflects the personal politics of berlusconi and the institutional nature he abolished . one of the last acts of his government was to replace the electoral system of majoritarian people introduced in 1993 and rule accordingly . the new electoral system will change the incentives of politicians and it could bring back the transition of coalitions and unstable governments . this outcome would be accelerated if berlusconi himself was likely to be separated from politics in the next election . under the new electoral rules , the number of places is allocated to the parties relative to the vote , but the specific provisions in which the parties to the pre-election agreement are to be established : the pre-election coalition , which wins the most votes , is a premium for the vote , which provides a comfortable majority of the vote in the assembly room ( the lower house ) .
and he had a certain success - at the expense of economic growth , he was a member of the house of representatives . although the current rate of 7 % is satisfactory , it is much lower than the double rate achieved before 2008 . given the need for further economic restructuring - and in the light of the long-term demographic trends that reduce labor supply - growth rates before 2008 are unlikely to be restored . this is good for li , who recognizes that structural transformation and industrial development - not an unsustainable growth model with credit - is the key element of achieving high income . but it is more about assessing wen 's stimulus than trade in growth and reforms .
the climate challenge requires a deeper co-operation between the public and private sectors in order to increase investment . we need to ensure that infrastructure is built to address the increased climate change and develop clear global standards to eliminate the risks posed by investment projects . for example , how does the city manage to deal with increased flood risks and how to keep agricultural land as drought is growing ? big and small investors should know exactly how they could affect the climate change . in many ways , public investment institutions such as the euro 's investment bank can help to adapt .
" there are more than half of the battle on the media battlefield , for we are in the media battle for the hearts and minds of [ muslims ] . " the speaker was not a public relations director , but a representative of osama bin laden 's chief lieutenant , ayman al-zawahiri . terrorists have adapted to the fight against wars at the time of today 's media , but america and other democracies do not usually have . the violent extremists have their own " media relations committees " aimed at manipulating the elite 's opinion . they plan and plan to attack the main line using all communications to intimidate and violate the common will of free people .
of course , the exemplary and punitive damages , which discourage society from being indecent , exist in the books of law . but philippine courts have refused to use such compensation as a tool to control behaviour , especially businessmen . recently , filipino lawyers have tried to prosecute civil claims for the establishment of a civil rights and human rights before the u.s. courts show how desperate applicants for filipino claim are to seek compensation against those who acted negligent or impunity . all of this explains why the sulpicio lines , the owner of the princess of the stars , remained in business despite the fact that many of them had fallen . the philippine courts simply did not make it sufficiently costly to keep the ship out of the sea .
congress is considering legislation that allows the trump administration to impose sanctions on european companies involved in the project , even if these companies are contractually obliged to carry out their work . and , according to gerhard schröder , the former chancellor of the german , who is now leading the pipeline , is more like a diplomat than a diplomat , as an envoy to germany . all they 've told is that the trump government 's disruptive behaviour has upset the french and german governments . but , despite the fueling anger , trump 's attacks on sovereignty of other countries are increasing momentum for europe 's political unification . it is not secret that the euro is in the middle of an internal economic crisis - the euro is a result of a high inflation crisis in the eurozone , which has significantly reduced their competitiveness in the euro system .
all controls were cancelled at their shared borders and adopted a common visa policy for citizens of third countries . it is certainly appropriate to take a flight from zurich to oslo as a domestic road without passport controls to prevent the departure and arrival of the aircraft . and it is certainly appropriate to drive from berlin to barcelona without waiting for each crossing . this convenience is probably why only two countries ( ireland and the united kingdom ) chose the agreement . but the refugee crisis has revealed the side-effects of the deal - namely the difficulty of monitoring the territory of the member states and eu without border controls .
europe 's citizens have become dependent on these companies , which are based on china or america . europe , however , has focused more on enforcing common values in the technology sector , namely strengthening data protection regulations , rather than developing a long-term strategy that would become competitive . the definition of such a strategy could help the euro to identify areas of mutual accommodation . third , with the potential for strategic cooperation , development aid and investments in the poorest and most vulnerable countries are involved . such cooperation is essential for the fight against terrorism , human trafficking and migration , and for the fight against it .
just add liquidity , while continuing the current austerity policy , will not ignite the spanish economy . so the smaller banks , which are largely funded by smes , are neglected . the federal government - under president george w. and barack obama - allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to support mega-banks , while allowing hundreds of these important smaller creditors to fail . but lending would be prevented , even if banks were healthier , and they would be able to provide a guarantee . small businesses rely on loans based on collateral and the value of real estate - the main form of collateral - is still one-third lower than the value of the pre-crisis .
the world has learned this lesson in the aftermath of the 1973 war on the island . the oil-exporting countries have embarked on oil sales and on land to punish them for supporting israel . but oil destined for us and for the netherlands was converted to other countries such as japan , while oil for other countries was found in the direction of us and the underworld . oil is a commodity that can be easily traded , and the market is clear at the usual price . when the dust settled , it turned out that american , dutch , and other importers had suffered roughly the same amount of decline and paid the same price .
the world has been appalled by the graphic images of the latest crackdown by the military junta . but the bullets and clubs released on the basis of the monks of the buddhist have worked . the monks retreated , and the eerie normalcy returned to yangon , the main city of myanmar and the capital of the former . the crackdown is continuing under the cover of the darkness , and it is still under control . when the sun comes down in myanmar , there will be fear in them .
the question is whether the euro 's monetary union needs to be more integrated in order to manage crises such as " greece , " or whether it can maintain a current approach based on national responsibility and penalties for those who violate the rules . the german finance minister , wolfgang schästäké , suggested that these sanctions should include the expulsion of the eurozone - which has never been planned in the european union 's 1992 maastricht agreement . nor did he ever expect that the ece would face the current economic trauma . the country 's economic performance , which was due to oil shock in the early 1970 " s , was low , with slow growth , high inflation , and unemployment , a huge fiscal deficit , a growing debt , a declining currency , and a lack of infrastructure . indeed , until mid-1990 , the lack of macroeconomic discipline and the tendency to succumb to demand for population and vested interests has largely been attributed to the country 's economic weakness .
it includes toilet flush , car , electricity , long-distance communications , modern information , etc . it would be terribly expensive - or simply impossible - to achieve similar skills in earlier history . in the late roman empire , only rich aristocrats could buy a napper - a slave tasked with memorising names and faces , and reminded them of their aristocrats when they needed social occasions . today , when you have a basic smartphone , it 's better than having a dozen or even thousands of assistants . in the context of growth and opportunities for further growth , we should consider how far we have come .
if that is true , the united states will not be replaced by the dominant power if they do not abdicate this role . this may sound simple , but it will have far-reaching consequences for the international order of the coming century . the main interests of the chinese policy are modernization , political stability and survival of the ruling regime and the unity of the country ( including taiwan ) . these interests are unlikely to change for a long time , and they do not have much of a common sense of interest . china will thus become a largely inward-looking superpower that will , for that reason , carry out its foreign-policy interests in a completely unsentimental way .
the government has pursued fiscal austerity , but not enough to replace the vagaries in the market . the global financial crisis , which followed the crisis in east asia , has caused a series of big changes in exchange rates . the dollar , which was tied to the peso of argentina , increased sharply . meanwhile , the company 's neighbour and partner mercosur , brazil , has seen the currency depreciate - some say it has become significantly undervalued . wages and prices have fallen , but not enough to be able to compete effectively , especially since many agricultural products , which are of the nature of the argentina 's natural comparative advantages , are facing significant obstacles to the entry into the rich countries " markets .
when such a bubble burst , its effects are directly transferred to the real economy by using balance sheets in the household sector , and the reduction in consumption , which contributes to a reduction in employment and private investment . it is much harder to find a circuit breaker for this dynamic than that caused by financial sector balance-sheet distress . but the chinese authorities do n't seem to have learned the lessons of one of the episode . they did not only mitigate the risks , but they did not only underscore the 2007 decline , but also contributed to the fact that new retail investors were involved in the market ; they were even exacerbating them by allowing them to accumulate leverage by purchasing margins . worse , when the current correction in the market began in early february , chinese regulatory authorities reduced the restrictions on the purchase of margin-purchase , while encouraging state-owned enterprises and asset managers to buy more stock .
i do n't know what it is , but i doubt it 's got it . seventy years ago , john maynard keynes pointed out his fallacy in the paper . when the system is shaken , agents do n't know what 's going on . in the face of this uncertainty , they do not read their spending , but they do not spend until the fog is clear and the economy is in a bad mood . it 's a shock , not a change , but it spreads across the system .
the financial sector has taken huge external factors for the rest of the company . the us financial sector has polluted the world with toxic mortgages and , in accordance with the principle of " polluter pays , " taxes should be imposed on it . moreover , well-designed taxes on financial sector could help alleviate the problems caused by excessive leverage and too large banks to fail . the speculative activity tax could encourage banks to focus more on the implementation of their main social role in providing credit . in the long term , most economists agree that governments , especially developed industrial countries with ageing populations , should be concerned about sustainability of their policies .
but public reaction , together with recent increases in oil prices , can well be taken into account in terms of changing the psychology of the market . such changes may precipitate attitudes to risks during time , and events such as ahmadinejad and peres . so , while these things are difficult to quantify , analysts might be able to pay attention to ahmadinejad 's words as carefully as possible to those of bernanke , who are trying to understand the direction of the world 's stock markets . economists might not want to focus on public opinion and how they act with price changes , stories about world reports and speculative dynamics . after all , it is clear that economic events are less predictable ( and economists are less omniscient ) than they would like to imagine .
in new york - in an effort to provide a bailout plan for the financial system of america , officials in the bush have called for the specter of the crisis of the 1930 " s. but for most of the asians , the economy 's military is much more recent . the asian financial crisis has brought banks , corporations , and governments to their knees . the fire flared in 1997 by the fall of the thaai baht . the contagion spread across east asia , and the effects of mass currency devaluation reached russia and brazil .
of course , plato 's aim is not to define piety : if socrates know better than those of euthyphro , they do n't reveal it . rather , plato 's point of view is to prove that euthyphro does not know about piety , and that euthyphro can not know that the prosecution of his father is right . the knowledge of this type of self-examination is crucial in all decisions . you should know the moral character of any action you 're considering . and to know it , you must know what you do n't know about what you 're doing .
there are billions of people around the world who do n't have access to clean water . in addition , water scarcity means a shortage of food in the city of the city . the agricultural sector is , after all , 70 % of the total consumption of freshwater , with water in the short term , which is why farmers are able to feed the world 's population . this year , china experienced the worst drought in the half-century , which affected millions of acres of farmland , and caused a shortage of energy . in northern africa , the desert has spread many people and has exacerbated the tension between farmers and herders .
the deregulation of agriculture and support for research in the brazil region enabled the brazilian research society to pioneer more than 9,000 technological projects , including the design of a tropical soybean strain , which can thrive in the climate of the brazil . efficiency soared and achieved the crop yields of brazil in accordance with the yield of developed economies . the end of a " easy " growth of the gdp , driven by a massive army of young workers . emerging economies must face the growth challenge that leads to significant changes in policies , incentives and established procedures to boost productivity . the first step is to recognize this imperative , and that is the first step .
since the g-20 meeting at last november , for example , europe has increased its financial firewall by € 200 billion , restructured debt , took steps to strengthen banks and banking regulations , set out rules for fiscal discipline , and implemented a series of reforms in the labor market and manufacturing market . but the size of the challenges faced by the euro is an urgent need for more decisive reforms . we believe that europe will act together to address these challenges and continue to support these efforts , as europe will be in the interests of stability and growth . second , we need clear reports from the g-20 that all members of the group are pursuing policies for strong , sustainable and balanced growth . in order to be meaningful , the report must be supplemented by the measures : g-20 members must demonstrate that their policy is clearly aimed at restoring economic growth and creating jobs , and that they are responsible for fulfilling their commitments .
they must work with bureaucracies who naturally do n't want to prioritise their efforts , so they do n't end up as much as the first one . whenever we prefer to prioritize , we do n't just say where we should do more ( which is good ) , but also where we should not increase our efforts ( which is considered cynical ) . but not talking about priorities , it does n't mean that priorities should be prioritised . instead , the choice is less clear , less democratic , and less effective . the rejection of priorities , especially the most published problems , is wrong .
the point is not to lose an endless comparison or mysterious mathematics , but to emphasize that it is possible - and , indeed , necessary - to discuss inequality on the basis of specific figures in order to establish clear objectives . if the right objectives are selected , it is necessary to inform the debate better . as it is said , surveys show that people tend to believe that inequality is lower than it is , but it is still higher than what they consider ideal . this is true in most countries - including in us , where inequality is the highest in the world - although there are few countries , such as in the norway , where people have more realistic views . the correction of these misperceptions will change the views of people on redistributive policies .
these sanctions have crippled the irish economy , and they have not yet been able to carry out their duties . similarly , the rejection of any bank that deals with russia 's banks or companies " access to our financial system would cause economic chaos that would be the last seen in russia immediately after the fall of communism . ordinary russians should understand that allowing putin - whose main claim to lead the government is that the first post-soviet years have ended his punishment - and that he will continue with his imperialist aggression . third , obama should stress that the chinese share of their share of eurasian stability is a major factor . putin may consider the disintegration of soviet unions as a tragedy , but china is the greatest geostrategic gift .
in this context , it is not surprising that the salary in the financial sector has increased . the city of london , in the lower manhattan , and several other centers , became a financial instrument that made bankers , hedge fund managers , and private equity companies a little rich . university leaders like me have spent a lot of time persuading them to recycle their profits in their old school . for the last two years , it 's different , but i do n't know . many financial firms have dramatically reduced their balance sheets , and some have , of course , completely disappeared .
indeed , this policy encouraged pro-russian politicians who would only like to see americans kicked out of kyrgyzstan . the business at the base was intense , and it was n't just about that . at a meeting , the ambassador to kyrgyzstan asked her chinese counterpart about reports that china offered to pay $ 3 billion to kyrgyz if the kyrgyz had shut down the american base . the two diplomats were speaking in russian , and they were not in the hands of the two diplomats . " obviously confused , the chinese ambassador temporarily lost his ability to speak russian , and began to talk to the silent aide , who was quietly taking notes behind him , " according to the secret diplomatic cable obtained by the web site wikileaks.org .
but in the end , it is best to address them and prevent them from renewing them , so that they can provide economic opportunities to those who want to try . social assistance , which is not expected to be individually improved , is not enough . it is time for a france to begin questioning the economic model of the business . in a recent statement on the burning suburbs , chirac said : " we will have to learn from this crisis when time comes and order is restored , and we will have plenty of courage and ingenuity . " but these lessons mean reforms that are more far-reaching than chirac can ever be imagined .
we believe they are faster than we are when we get and process knowledge because they have grown up with tools and techniques we have n't had at their age . we entrust them to the new growth and development levels of our country , so we have now appointed a minister of their age and established a special youth council . we have also learned from hundreds of thousands of refugees , and millions of refugees from our country , that sectarian , ideological , cultural , and religious bigotry only fuel the flames of anger . we ca n't and we do n't want to let it go to our country . we have to learn , learn and teach tolerance - and keep it in children , both by education and by example .
we know that very low interest rates are causing a huge increase in credit . in countries with higher prices than in germany , but with the same borrowing costs , there is nothing more than overheating , inflation , and even lower real interest rates . it is impossible to stop this flood of demand for credit and only fiscal policy , and it is absurd to try . how do you strengthen fiscal policy to replace more than 100 % of the resources earmarked for credit spending in only three years , as in ireland in 2004-2007 - and democracy with a tax surplus as ireland is ? to ask politicians about democracy with large surpluses to raise taxes , reduce benefits or invest in the amount needed to prevent disaster attacks , is to be out of contact with reality .
but the main point is that constitutional changes can only be implemented unanimously , and several governments , starting with uk , would not be able to defend any federalist agenda . in the past , no doubt , the dance ( under president mitterrand ) and the germany ( under chancellor kohl ) would be held together regularly to bring closer integration , despite the british reluctance . but today , the spread and diversity of europe 's common strategy are less united , and their commitment to integration in europe seems less strong . the french government therefore does not want to make a confrontation with the british if there is any chance of a more subtle compromise in the future . the problem is that this plot of fraud does not have to work , and the importance of fischer 's speech is that it is the first government minister to say it in public , even if it is to say it personally .
enthusiasts describe it as a new brand of modern industrial policy that can help to push the brazil out of its traditional role as a commodity exporter . critics call it a misguided effort that will only create more disruptive and retard growth . in my view , the intellectual case of activist policies - such as dani rodrik and ricardo hausmann from harvard - is strong . innovation markets and new ideas work poorly , and governments can help to overcome these failures . but rodrik and hausmann also show that getting such policies is an accurate requirement .
people who have a lower income and education will always be worse off if they compete with a large number of young immigrants . gender imbalance is not the only driving force of anti-immigrant sentiments , let alone populism . but evolutionary psychology , which is a source of competition for women , can also add another dimension to understanding these phenomena , while also helping us to predict when and where civil unrest can erupt . there is little to do to change gender imbalance . but even if the problem is not " solved , " it might help to limit the damage , not least by preventing policies that are either useless or exacerbate tensions .
a new port - a dependency never ends well in a personal relationship with each other . according to the ever-escalating trade war between the united states and china , economic relations are also true . while i have published a book in 2014 on the economic relationship between us and china , i would first acknowledge that it is an extension of human psychology to assess the behaviour of the national economy . but the similarities are striking , and the prognosis is more compelling , as the two largest economies of the world are turning into a dangerous swamp . in the most basic terms , mutual dependency occurs at the end of the dynamics of relations - when two partners are more than their own strength .
but how do you want to define this identity , what do you want to identify ? this is the point where many people use languages that define europe by contrast , to us - europe as anti-america . during the cold war , the soviet union provided a raison d'être for the european union . of course , comparing and comparing both sides of the atlantic has a pedigree . europe 's culture and american trade , europe 's profundity and american materialism , are ancient and tired themes .
without raising national savings - which is highly unlikely under the current budget trajectory - trade will simply be transferred from china to other american trading partners . with this diversion that can move to high-cost platforms around the world , american consumers will be hit by a functional equivalent of tax hike . ironically , trump called the same man who had been a veteran of the japanese trade in the 1980s to lead the chinese to china . unfortunately , the lighthizer seems to be as clueless about macro arguments as he was then . in both parts , we were in denial , bordering on delusion , and we were n't in the right place .
the government of hollande and prime minister jean-marc ayrault have a strong majority in all executive and legislative levels , and it is rarely possible to act . if the european model can be restored at home , it will be able to extend this success to a larger extent , especially in southern europe , in order to strengthen confidence and confidence in the area of the country , especially in young generation . the french center-left must lead to the idea of a euro in which solidarity and equity are reinforced by long-term economic strength . finally , the merged kingdom between europe 's countries retains a greater role than germany has ever gained . while the united states security council is obsolete in its structure , it is still playing a crucial legitimization role , and the france is not germany .
deep reforms - focusing on quality and performance , rather than on enrollment and diplomas - need to be implemented in order to transform the process of education and to unleash productivity growth that young labor force needs . the third challenge , which will be crucial to meeting the first two , will strengthen regional solidarity . many outsiders underestimate or deliberately minimize the " arabness " of the arabababababababababness of the world . but the 2011 revolution has shown that a strong sense of identity , common language , and many shared history is linked to each other , despite the considerable differences in natural resources , political circumstances , and average income per capita . how else can you explain that the revolt in tunisia has led to popular revolts from north africa to the peninsula of the arabian peninsula ?
who has a more flexible job , and he 's got a lot of work to do ? who has a boss or firm that would be better suited to reconciling work and family obligations ? the attitudes of men who caregiving are beginning to shift in the area of the two of us . only a third of the millennial men believe in the role of women and men . america 's biggest tech companies are beginning to compete with talent by offering paternity .
the low wage growth is increasing , and the unused labor and capital are redeployed . how fast this is going to happen is partly dependent on the flexibility and dynamism of the private sector . but it also depends on the ability and willingness of government institutions to bridge the lack of aggregate demand and continue reforms and investments that will boost long-term growth prospects . if public sector deleveraging is not a complete growth policy - and it is not - why is there so much attention to fiscal austerity and so few measures ( rather than lip service ) on growth and employment ? there are many options - not mutually exclusive - in mind , of course .
on the contrary , when europe 's eyes are examined by the personal situation of many americans , the extreme individualism , which is a key part of america 's optimism , is an unacceptable social scandal . " cities of tents are filled with victims of an economic crisis , " read one headline a month ago on the first page of a mass american newspaper . journalists report tragic stories about americans who lose their jobs and homes , and they can risk their lives without social protection . who would pay for your treatment of cancer if you lost your health insurance ? it 's wrong to assume that some ultra-free gunmen do it , because the lack of social protection will make you stronger .
war : the recent poland has experienced typical political discussions - and usually incomplete . it focused on whether education should be " free " to be a constitutional right . free , or , as its post-communist advocates prefer , " unpaid " education means education in schools and universities that own the state ( but not in private schools ) . only by raising the issue of constitutional rights , such as post-communists , can guarantee free access to education and equal access to education . as a result of their dominance in parliament , the intransigence of postcommunists has forced other political parties to participate in the preparation of the new constitution of poland to strengthen their position .
governments must also clarify the obligations of national water authorities and improve the capacity of water institutions at all levels for the establishment of large-scale unconventional-water programs . it is necessary to clarify best practices , identify and test innovation , and share knowledge and experience . the private sector is also involved in the transition to unconventional water resources , which must be extended to the current effort to tap the desalinated water , the urban waters and the waste water . finally , local authorities , non-government organizations and local communities must be mobilised - for example , through public campaigns , for example , to show benefits from the use of non-conventional water resources . the objective of sustainable development 6 requires universal access to clean water and sanitation .
as a result , the focus on china is a huge political appeal to the chinese . so , what can be done about the 19 deal , what do you think ? there are few real benefits beyond the ceasefire at the rate of the tat . we are dealing with negotiators who have targeted a reduction of approximately $ 200 billion in bilateral trade imbalances over the course of two years . given the scope of the multilateral problem of america , this is largely a meaningless goal , especially given the huge and poorly timed tax cuts and federal spending , which we have achieved in the last six months .
the unprecedented economic expansion , which has caused poverty to be lifted , has contributed to an increase in income differences , and serious damage to the environment . as a result , asia is now facing two : a prosperous and growing middle class , and those who have not yet had the opportunity to benefit from the rapid economic development of the region , and whose health and wellbeing are negatively affected by acute problems such as air pollution and water pollution . in short , the main challenges faced by asia are to maintain economic growth - at lower levels , but still enviable , with rates - and to improve its quality . asia needs strong , inclusive , knowledge-based growth , which implies a need to rebalance the economic dynamism of the economy in order to highlight domestic , regional , and inter-regional demand for " south . " this shift would not be diluted by economic relations with the west .
the main idea of macroeconomics is that john stuart 's first third century was known : there may be a large difference between supply and demand for all goods and services , and the types of work , if there is a high demand for financial assets . and this basic fact is a source of great problems , and that 's why we 're here . the normal difference between supply and demand for a certain sub-set of products produced at present is not a serious problem , since it is balanced by the demand for other commodities produced at the same time . as businesses suffer from insufficient demand , industry benefits from excess demand . the economy is rapidly balancing itself , and thus returns to full employment - and it is doing so with a better adjustment of employment and production to existing consumer preferences .
russian liberals initially welcomed the budanov case as a sign that the country could claim the allegations of war crimes committed in chechnya . but last month , the military prosecutor accepted colonel budanov 's argument that he had been temporarily insane when he killed the girl . ( the rape charge was already dropped for some unknown reason . ) the prosecution then began to talk about a young girl as a sniper , a sniper family . the prosecutor dismissed sergei ivanov 's indignation , who seemed to be willing to acquit the patriotic " hero " of all remaining charges .
once the team is in place , its members will have to figure out how trump 's plans are working for the economy , which , by necessity , is not too dependent on conventional monetary policy . the plan must be aware that financial markets and resources have been disrupted during this extended period of monetary expansion , and that wealth inequality has deteriorated . the good news is that the incoming government can draw on measures that have been formulated during obama 's tenure , but which has not been traction , owing to the highly polarized and dysfunctional politics of congress , which has characterized most of obama 's eight years of office . these measures address requirements such as infrastructure investments , tax reforms and job creation . but of course we do n't exist in a vacuum , and we do n't exist .
washington , dc - more than a century ago , the united states led the world to think about how big business was going - and when the power of these businesses should be limited . in retrospect , breakthrough law - not just for us , but also for us at international level - was the act of the erman 's antitrust . the dodd-frank financial reform bill , which is about to pass us senate , will do something similar - and long-term - for banking . before 1890 , large business was considered more efficient and generally more modern than small business . most people have seen consolidation of smaller businesses in smaller and larger firms as a stabilizing development that rewarded success and allowed further productive investments .
tokyo - when did you sit down and write the letter ? i do n't want to send an e-mail or text message , i do n't even count the message to the machine or the assistant . no , i mean an old letter " dear donald " or " dear mountain . " i ask because 65,000 people have actually written such letters to obama every week when he was in the u.s. president 's office . according to the latest news of the guard , a group of white staffers selected ten letters each day to pass them to the president , who personally answered them .
they could tell pollsters that they were willing to pay higher taxes for better public service and more compassionate access to the poor . but eventually , they did exactly what they had done in the last four elections - they voted for the party , which was called " everyone for themselves . " today , this pseudo-theory of marxism was refuted once and for all . in 1992 , john major was running for re-election in the midst of a crisis , a fierce squeeze in money , and a rapid inflation rate . economic determinists predicted that he would not have a chance to do so .
the transactional leadership is more effective in a stable and predictable environment , while the stimulus style is more likely to occur in a period of rapid and unstable social and political change . the transformation objectives and support for the leader of a leader , such as mahatma gandhi , in india or in nelson mandela , in south africa , can significantly affect the results of fluid policy problems , especially in developing countries with weak structured institutional restrictions . by contrast , the formation of american foreign policy is highly limited by institutions such as congress , courts and constitution . so we would expect less opportunity to change the leadership of the transformational system . but even our constitution is unclear about congress 's power and the president 's foreign policy .
berlin - 30 years ago , the united countries " agriculture and food organisation launched a tropical action plan , the first global intergovernmental initiative to stop the loss of forests . since then , deforestation has continued to be untouchable , and the latest international effort to stop it - a initiative called reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation of forests ( redd + ) - is unlikely to be effective . the most obvious outcome of these two agreements is the fact that , in the absence of protection from the forests of the world , the reams of expensive advisory reports are produced . the red-+ programme was created under the un framework climate change agreement , and it is expected that its implementation agreement will be completed at the time of the un climate change conference . but if world leaders are serious about the loss of forests , they should leave the red + system and replace it with a mechanism that deals with the driver of a large forest forestation .
donald payne , the leading member of the house of foreign affairs and the representatives of the european parliament of the european parliament of the european parliament of the european parliament and the head of the monitoring team for the observation team in 2005 , sought to strengthen the conduct of ethiopia in the area of freedom of press and other human rights . britain and several other european governments responded to the crackdown after the election by temporarily rejecting aid . but ethiopia is a problem for anyone who cares about human rights and democracy . the reduction in aid could have disastrous humanitarian consequences for 80 million people . it could also destabilize the fragile area , sparking new wars with neighbouring somes and eritrea .
it is important to keep people working longer , so that they are healthy . that is why the health-care industry must play a significant role in addressing the challenges associated with aging . age must not be regarded as an inevitable phase of life , but as an opportunity for health care companies and systems to help people prosper . to this end , health-care companies should focus on research and development efforts in relation to conditions that are most commonly observed in older patients , including chronic diseases such as diabetes , heart disease , glaucoma , rheumatoid arthritis and cancer . these efforts are also essential for finding ways to streamline the deterioration of productivity and independence of people by maintaining physical strength , psychological skills , and senses such as hearing and vision .
the second great opportunity to transition funds is to co-finance or co-operate projects that increase private equity for public goods . these initiatives bring together a number of stakeholders from the public and private sectors , including multilateral organisations , to finance projects with a deep environmental impact and social impact . moreover , the combined approach helps increase and reduce the risk of projects and optimize their financing . a tropical landscape financing facility developed in indonesia in cooperation with the programme for the environment is a good example . the initiative combines private funds , public and philanthropic funds , which would maximize social benefits .
emerging markets were initially tied to this distress when foreign investors began to collect their money . then , in panic , credit markets , currency markets , and financial markets spread , highlighting the weaknesses of many developing countries " financial systems and businesses , which have experienced credit boom , and have borrowed short and foreign currencies . countries with large current-account deficits and / or large tax deficits and short-term foreign currency liabilities are most weak . but even better performing - like brazil , russia , india and china - now pose a danger of landing . many emerging markets are now at risk of a serious financial crisis , and they are not in the market .
and if there was a new referendum , british voters would probably have to choose between proper brexit and stay here because no one would dare offer a hard break as an alternative . until recently , the reverse decision of british voters to leave the village of 2016 seemed unlikely . but the intervention of the bercow and eu has opened up a new game , which has dramatically increased the chances of brexit . this would confuse speculators with financial markets who would have gambled on the withdrawal of the market , and that would be good news for uk and for eu . nearly three years ago , british voters did n't know what they were doing when they decided to leave the country with a narrow majority .
china 's leaders have set up a path of reforms that have produced the most dramatic economic transformation in history . mao zedong died two years ago in 1976 , and a newly repaired deg xiaoping managed to improve his vision of economic development and modernization at the third plenary session of the 11th central committee , which was held in december 1978 . in the four decades since then , china has become an economic powerhouse , which is also a major change in the world economy and geopolitical policy . china 's reforms began in agriculture , where the pressure on state controls was released . through the pricing mechanism for double rates , farmers were given incentives to the market .
jerjer-based on american politics , there is a threat of a further military confrontation as a dark cloud over the middle east . the enemies of the united states have been reinforced and iran - although they have been branded as a member of the so-called " axis of evil " - has been catapulted into regional hegemony . iran could never have done it himself , not in such a short time . so far , the late rivalry between ian and israel has been transformed into an open battle for dominance in the middle east . the result was a surprise , though not a bizarre alliance : iran , syria , hezbollah , hamas and america 's backed iraq face the island , the saudi arabia , and most other states of the sunni arab , which all seemed to be threatened by the ascendance of iran .
the fascination with freedom of freedom was in the country and in a strange moment . the old social structures were destroyed , the social habits and habits of the former norms and unwritten rules were abandoned . in the post-communist social revolution ( less frequent than the political and economic crisis ) , families and communities were threatened , and the church was too involved in politics . there were people who had to endure the gales of change themselves , and they were left alone . being free , but alone , is not easy , especially when it rains habit .
the crisis must also not be an excuse to create new institutional formats that threaten the delicate balance between different institutions of eu , which , by means of appropriate adjustments , have been demonstrated by the time test . the crisis , of course , highlights the need to strengthen institutions and tools for joint action and coordination . we need to ratify the lisbon treaty in order to ensure that the european union is institutionally and internationally stronger . nor should today 's uncertainty become an excuse to challenge the need to continue and complete the expansion process . the expansion of the area of freedom and democracy , peace , stability and prosperity , especially across the south-east of europe , is in the interest of all citizens of europe .
the alleged economic mismanagement of outgoing government was usually an example of its price policy . strong sugarcane cooperatives , led by the main supporters of the upper hand , allegedly forced the government to set up high prices and write bad debts for sugar farmers , which led to excessive production . instead of removing this system , as expected , the modi government has increased subsidies for export sugar to support higher production , increased import duty to discourage foreign competition and increased ethanol from sugar , which must be mixed with petrol . his motivation is not difficult to discern : his bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) hopes that such concessions will help to control the maharashtra , the main state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state , which is the main source of the sugar-producing state , from the upcoming election to the state . this goal also explains another policy change in the direction of the policy , which is why it is not possible to implement it .
berlin - the german social democrats " ( spd ) existential crisis can not be considered a typical party crisis . the party received only 9.7 % of the vote in the regional elections in bavaria this month , and is now being held behind by the populist alternative für deutschland ( afd ) , and the green election in the national opinion polls . with another major regional election , which is rapidly coming to a coherent level , polls show that the election will lose more support , even if not so dramatically as in the case of bavaria . the spd and christian democratic union / christian social union ( cdul / csu ) have been a double pillar of german politics since the end of world war ii . but with a declining spd , germany is moving from a de facto two-party system to a multi-party system , where no one plays a dominant role .
while russia itself is not going to freeze the accounts , president putin 's point is clear : it would be better if the money was taken home and invested in the national economy . to achieve this , russia must create a safe and attractive climate for investment . the most important thing is that if we want to reverse the capital escape , the government must convince the savers to safely deposit the money and withdraw it on demand . how can the government mobilize domestic investments if ordinary russians save 50 billion dollars at home ? russia 's people must be convinced that the country 's political stability - for example , no one will suggest nationalization , as has happened several times in eight months , when i have become prime minister .
without gorbachev and his extraordinary courage , the flow of events in europe in the autumn of 1989 would never be possible . as gorbachev ascended , more and more people in the east took their heart and stopped worrying about their oppressive regime . they realised that the reality of east germany was not confined to stone , that there could be a change in which many brave dissidents and advocates of civil rights were required for so long . their commitment to the injustice of communist regime is one of the best chapters of the history of german people . the opening of the hunting border in the autumn , and the search for refuge by east german citizens in the german embassy of prayer and war , has shaken the communist and stasi to the foundations .
as a result , some - though relatively speaking , do not often go on long and often dangerous trips to developed countries . and yet , when they reach the door of the rich world , they are increasingly mixed up , as they have been raised by panic over the seemingly massive influx of " dangerous " outsiders , closing the space for human and pragmatic responses . responsible sharing - the basis for modern international system of protection of refugees - is replaced by responsible shifts , usually for countries that are at least able to cope with . it is time to reboot global efforts to protect the refugees from the fight . it is necessary to create a comprehensive strategy with global reach , which would reflect a broad vision that would encourage and involve governments , help , businesses , development institutions , civil society , and trust groups , academia , sports and art .
munich - the eurozone crisis has passed through six stages of the past . it is worth remembering them , as they show how politicians have stumbled and tried to extinguish the fires without looking at where they have chosen them . markets are still in peace , but this is just the beginning of the seventh phase of the crisis , during which europe will be put in debt . the sequence has been as follows : " the number of points in the previous series has been reduced . " the seventh phase of the crisis is a higher moral hazard caused by debt .
between 1985 and 2005 , the boomsters predicted a 10-year forecast that the chances of significant positive developments in both financial markets were exaggerated ( e.g. , the share of industrial average 36,000 ) , and global politics ( e.g. peace in the middle east and dynamic growth in sub-saharan africa ) . they gave us 65 % of the probability of rosy scenarios that only took 15 % of the time . in the same period , the doomsters were even more poorly exaggerating the chances of negative changes in all places , where the boomsters were magnified by positive values , and several others ( i was still waiting for the impending disintegration of the canada , nigeria , indonesia , southern africa , belgium and sudan ) . they gave 70 % of the probability to a bleak scenario that only 12 % were available . second , as skeptics have warned , the overclaimers rarely pay the penalties for their misdemeanor .
the economic challenges of brexit would be a huge problem for the rest of us . the main economic argument of the campaign - this british trade deficit is a secret weapon , as instead of britain 's collapse in trade relations would have lost more than britain - it would be utterly wrong . britain will have to negotiate access to the single european market for services in the field of services , while manufacturers will automatically enjoy virtually unlimited rights to sell what they want in britain , according to the rules of global trade organisation . the first thing was that britain 's specialisation in services - not only finance , but also law , accounting , media , architecture , pharmaceutical research , and so on - is critical to membership in the single market . it is a small economic difference for germany , france or italy , whether britain is a member of the eu or simply in the wto .
the answer to these questions will require a debate that transcends issues such as separation of powers and independence of judges and elucidates the appropriate relationship between religion and politics . for this reason , it is essential to understand the historical context of the current crisis . when the turkey became democracy in 1950 , the secular elite of the previous system attempted to use the military and bureaucracy to control the elected government . the military , with the support of the judiciary , has explicitly intervened in the functioning of the civil government in 1960 , 1980 and 1997 , each time , for the purpose of protecting secularism . various religious groups , including the gülen movement , called on their supporters to take a position in the bureaucracy and in the military .
berlin - during a long night negotiations on greece on july 12-13 , something fundamental to the european union 's union was broken . since then , europe has lived in a different way than in the past . the german was the same as the germans who knew the euro from the end of world war ii . on the surface of the negotiations , negotiations were about to cancel the greenback exit from the eurozone ( or " grexit " ) , and the dire consequences of what would follow for the greece and monetary union . but at a deeper level , the role of europe 's most populous and economically strongest country was involved .
but the rise of military forces in the arab is causing serious concerns , not least because the history of military intervention , unlike those carried out in the west , is not a promising precedent . such interventions were usually aimed at strengthening the political forces of the proxy for military and political rivals , instead of averting humanitarian disasters or institutionalizing a mechanism that did not cause conflict resolution . egypt 's military intervention in yemen in the 1960 " s is a case . by the end of 1965 , president gamel abdel nasser sent 70,000 troops to support the republican coup against the republican republican republican forces . despite the use of prohibited chemical weapons against the guerillas of yemeni from 1963 to 1967 , the first in the conflict between the arab and the third party did not achieve its objectives .
the reform process led by countries that created the original package and opened up to developing countries . 125 countries are involved today , creating a group called " inclusive framework . " the beps were undoubtedly an important step towards addressing the most important strategy of avoiding tax evasion used by international companies . for example , it initiated a division of tax administrations on profits and tax payments from these companies . unfortunately , this standard will only apply to very large multinationals , and reports will not be publicly available , and civil society will be deprived of the necessary transparency tools .
and even the elimination of accelerated depreciation would not extend the tax base to a reduction of 28 % . while limiting the possibility of a net interest in businesses , as many developed countries have done , would also increase the tax base and would discourage excessive debt financing , the tax burden would increase the burden of substantial investments in physical capital , which are often financed by debt . the reduction of the tax preferences for non-corporate enterprises ( e.g. a partnership ) , which would pass their income to the individual returns of their owners , would also increase the tax base for the company 's income tax . the company 's transfer now accounts for 80 % of net business revenues ( which are the highest in developed countries ) . some of these entities are very profitable and benefit from the same legal benefits as corporations .
the disengagement plan of israel represents an end to 37 years of employment evacuation of the settlement of gaza . but israel also insists that gaza does not have any property of sovereignty , and that existing measures will continue to be governed by most aspects of security and civil administration . this means that the military will continue to enter the gaza and control the border crossing , airspace and territorial waters . the army of the island will not be withdrawn from the country 's belt along the border between the palace and egyptian . these conditions exclude any possibility of forgiving a security plan to support all factions , including the hamas .
nearly 60 years later , agricultural employment reached 53 % of total employment . today , it 's not even 3 % , but it 's going to be a good idea . since 1980 , most countries have experienced significant shortcomings in agricultural employment . in some , as in the case of pigs , malaysia , turkey and indonesia , agricultural activity fell by more than 20 % . in others , like green , italian , bulgaria , hungary , estonia , poland , philippines and sri lanka , the decline exceeded 10 % .
many observers hope that the vote will take place in a period of stability and peace by providing the government with a legitimate legitimacy . but democracy is best served sometimes by refusing to take part in the negotiations . the upcoming election , which will be held under the provisional constitutional order ( pco ) , which will be implemented after president pervez musharraf 's emergency status on november 3 , is such a case , so my party and its partners are boycotting the vote . of course , the election would be a great opportunity for my party to discuss matters with people . in fact , the support of my party has grown , according to the opinion polls , which now point to the second most popular in the border province - and that it is gaining ground in all other areas .
and it is good that the official sector is paying more attention to unemployment - very good . unfortunately , this shift will not solve the problem that will consume the social fabric of any company . although bernanke and others do not want to be done otherwise - and , although politicians are more likely to be a bickering policy , they seek to extricate themselves from political responsibilities - central banks do not have the appropriate tools to address the unemployment crisis , which is due to inadequate investments in education , education and physical capital . they can not also fix debt overhang , repair broken domestic financing , or solve problems with the medium-term fiscal-reform . the best thing that central banks can do is buy time , even if they increase costs , so that other policymakers can arrange their cooperation .
china 's dam builders are actually focusing on most of the international rivers flowing from chinese territory . most of china 's international shared water resources are located on the tibetan plateau , which was attached to the early 1950s . it is no surprise that the platform is the main hub of the chinese dam . indeed , china 's 13th five-year plan , which was released this year , requires a new wave of dam projects on a platform . china recently cut off the flow of tributary river brahmaputra , lifeline bangladesh and northern india , and built a dam in the construction of a major hydroelectric project .
washington , dc - a decade after the lehman 's failure , we know that multilateral action is crucial to preventing the so-called " big recession " worse than it was . in the meantime , it was a global financial system that was supposed to be working . today , it 's a global trade system that threatens to be put in danger . over the last 70 years , multi-lateralism has served the world well . for its credit , the united states have eschewed revenge and reparations after world war ii .
the school was multiplying , and the attendance of the crowd was rising , and the school was growing . other public services have also improved , and parents believe their children will be more successful than they have done before generations . this was certainly true of my parents who sacrificed a lot to raise their children . they were not happy when their sons were communists in the 1970 " s , and they strongly opposed the cruel regime of hafez al-assad , the father of president bashar al-assad . but this was not a farfetched transformation in the city , where people took new identities - such as nasserist , baathist , islamist , or communist - and played their local and tribal origins .
this leads to a high turnover as a result of overwork , and an increase in the need for foreign health care workers to occupy the necessary positions . the policy makers in the field of gcc have the right to focus on increasing access and subsidies for quality health care . but the fair distribution of health care services across the population of immigrants and locals is often a problem of thorny policy . and now , politicians must devote more attention to the health care workers themselves to ensuring that they are properly educated and trained for the challenges awaiting the region . today 's training programs in the city 's health systems do not focus enough on innovation or systems that think about improving efficiency and efficiency .
if the army collapses , it will be algeria [ and ] . " when de gaulle in military uniform came to television to show his master how he was in the new medium . " well , my dear and old country , we 're going to have a tough test again , " he said . he insisted that self-determination was the only way ahead , calling on the military to reject even passive contacts with the insurrection , and he ordered it to re-establish public order . if the state bowed before the challenge he faced , " france would be nothing more than a poor broken toy floating on an ocean of uncertainty , " he warned .
just as the world reached a consensus that ahmadinejad was merely a tool for the commander-in-chief , ayatollah khamenei , ahmadinejad appointed vice-president against khamenei 's will ( though he later postponed his appointment ) . we know with certainty that the regime is divided into two parts of the system . these divisions will allow the emergence of new forces in the irish society to be developed . so all means to reach the irish society at all levels should be found . it is necessary to encourage the irish students to visit and study in asian universities , where they will find out how young chinese and indian students are confident in the future , which may well be reflected in why young irish people do not share this optimism .
how can you assess the benefits of light infantry against the supply of important equipment such as helicopters or tankers of refueling air ? over what time do you have to calculate the time , and you 're counting ? common funding is one instrument that can be used to achieve a fair burden-sharing . traditionally , the policy of " cost lies where it falls " : each member has taken all of the costs of operating costs for the operational contribution he has taken to the alliance operation . in the last few years , the nato financial policy has been updated to encourage joint funding to provide some of the theatre 's capabilities , such as medical facilities , airports , troops , and supplies , or intelligence .
moreover , it is possible to argue that easy money has contributed to the unexpectedly strong inflation forces that have been seen in recent years . thanks to easy financing and relief from legislation , aggregate supply has grown as a " zombie " company . meanwhile , aggregate demand has been limited to the winds of debt - but the result is another easy monetary situation . given these conditions , it seems particularly unwise to insist on monetary easing . central bankers , with so many potential dangers , should at least consider changing the basic assumptions underlying their policy .
so , among the bad options , it seems like the least bad thing is cooperation with us . but cooperation with us does n't have to be much of a thing to do with al-sauds , as saudi relations with america are strained to break . since the terrorist attacks on new york and washington last year , the regime - once central to the strategic interests of the us - has been released by us , which suggests that saudi bases are not used for saudi oil . although the saudis were not included in the " axis of evil " of president bush , some american politicians now see the country as a core of evil . al-qaeda 's terrorist network is considered to be directly related to the fundamentalist teachings of the wahhabi , which form part of the saudi regime .
as victims remember , today 's trauma is the most controversial problem of psychology and psychiatry . many clinical trauma theorists believe that the fight , the rape and other terrible experiences are clearly engraved with ideas that can never be forgotten . others do n't agree , they say the mind can protect themselves from the memories of the trauma they have suffered from the awareness , and it is difficult to remember the most terrible experiences that have been spent many years in the future . while recognising that trauma is often too memorable , these clinical trauma theorists claim that the condition known as " traumatic dissociative amnesia " leaves a large part of the victim unable to recall the trauma , precisely because she was so frightening . but these clinical trauma theorists do n't claim that " suppressed " or " dissociated " memories of terrible events are either inert or harmless .
when a younger boy came to calcutta and insisted on playing with my friends , we let the new kid in , but only when he whispered the words , the words came out of his ears . the elé belé is a player who thinks he 's involved , but in truth he 's just moving . everyone knew that the goal he had achieved was not a real goal , but a goal . as a child , it was important to control the cruel art of elé belé . when the new child came along with a loving mother , we could only look at each other with a look at the fact that the baby would be a lazy bell .
the financial period of the world exchange rate increased by almost 22 % in 2017 - its best results since 2009 . as the pessimism of recent years has passed , some warnings have become obsolete in recent years . for example , north west university 's robert gordon claimed that the economy would slow down , as technological innovation would not increase growth in the past . harvard 's law enforcement has been paying much attention to his argument that the world is risking a " secular stagnation , " as interest rates required to invest in the desired savings are below zero . however , while the zero limit is no longer binding , there may be some cause of concern , one of which relates to debt levels .
china has effectively dampen most of the international rivers flowing from the bet , whose fragile ecosystem is threatened by global warming . the only river on which no hydroengineering works have been performed is indus , whose basin is mostly in india and pakistan , and in salt , which flows into burma and thailand . however , the local authorities in the province of yunnan consider the damning of the salt in the area of the quake-prone upstream . the indian government has pressed china for transparency , greater hydrological data sharing , and has pledged not to redirect the flow of natural flows of river flows or reduce the flow of water flows . however , even a joint expert mechanism , established in 2007 only for " interaction and cooperation " on hydrological data , has shown little value .
perhaps , but most students of monetary policy consider quantitative easing as a textbook policy to pull out an economy from a zero-interest-rate " liquidity trap , " thereby preventing the emergence of a sustained deflation that would exacerbate the debt burden . as for china 's renminbi , it is still supported by a highly political exchange rate regime . china 's rapid growth must be reflected in a significant increase in its currency , domestic price , or both . but in 2011 , inflation is likely to occur most of the balance . currency chaos is the safest thing to bet , and the world is changing rapidly and unpredictable .
without such cooperation , china 's ambitions would only be limited by domestic factors such as a weakening economy , increasing social discontent , worsening the environmental crisis or a cruel policy . which countries should take the lead to restrictions on china 's revisionist ambitions ? with us , we are distracted by other strategic challenges - not to mention the domestic presidential campaign - and , in particular , other powers of asia - in particular , the economic expansion of india and the political assertive japan - are the best candidates for this job . the values of american espouses , such as maintaining a stable balance of power , respect the territorial and maritime status quo and maintaining the freedom of navigation . moreover , they have demonstrated their shared desire to maintain the existing asian order .
developed countries should also meet their obligations under the convention to provide financial support and transfer of technologies to enable developing countries to effectively combat climate change . in addition , appropriate mechanisms and institutional arrangements should be set for adaptation , financial support and transfer of technologies . developing countries will take appropriate measures to mitigate the situation at national level in the context of sustainable development and measurable , portable and verifiable support for financing , technology and capacity building . the global financial crisis has undoubtedly worsened the challenges associated with climate change . but , given that climate change is more far-reaching and more serious , the world must not waver in its determination and commitment to addressing it .
rence - this month , jim yong kim suddenly resigned from his place as president of the world bank and left a pillar of international financial order without leadership or leadership . kim will join a private equity firm where he believes he can " influence major global issues such as climate change . " after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur .
the " money " version would be the purchase of zero-interest-rate government bonds that will not be repaid , either because they are permanent bonds , or because they are constantly rolled over each time they grow up . that 's probably what the japanese bank is doing now , and i 'm sure it 's not going to happen . governor boj haruhiko kuroda said it was not possible to directly underwrite the budget deficit . however , he has initiated a policy to replace government bonds on the balance sheet of the bank after their adulthood , while increasing the volume of government debt in the accounts of the central bank . this is the case after years of declarations by prominent economists , including the berkeley 's baboons and the former federal reserve chair ben bernanke , that money from the helicopter offers a way to overcome the deflation ( with which japan fought for decades ) .
he began in 2015 , embraced extremist rhetoric , appealing to nativism , islamophobia and anger at the elites . the media has provided as much as $ 2 billion free coverage , helping him catch up with the polls and most primary . trump 's main supporters are wrong to think they have moved and economically uncertain workers . the average annual income of his voters is about $ 72,000 , which is much higher than the median annual income of $ 55,000 . his supporters resemble tea parties : a hugely older man , a middle class and a white man .
once a group of people look at them as distasteful , they divert attention from them like a moral person . they become mindless bodies , and the circle of morals is closing in to rule them out . our reaction to mindless bodies is well illustrated by a story about descartes after he died . they knew that descartes had a daughter , francis , who died when she was five . according to the story , descartes were so distressed that he had created a machine doll built to look like his dead daughter .
but terrorist attacks in istanbul are unlikely to cause nervous responses to restrictions on democratic rights . if al-qaeda was behind the attack , he would have miscalculated it . the prime minister repeated the tayyip erdogan 's reaction and summed up the crazy mood : " these bombs are about to destroy peace and stability in our country . we 're not going to change our course , we 're not going to change anything . if these bombs are to send a message , i 'll sweep it off and i 'll crush it . "
but khamenei 's invasion of law is an echo of many conservative-pragmatists who are leaning toward mousavi , who are not in a position to challenge khamenei 's authority directly . mousavi must proceed with his legal campaign without compromising the trust gained by most irish . he must stand up to his two main demands : nullification of the election and the establishment of an impartial committee to rule on a government breach of electoral law . if mousavi persuaded khamenei to reconsider his position , the power of the highest leader would be shaken . if khamenei holds up fast , he will not be able to get the presidency , but he will continue to represent most of the irish who differ dramatically with their government .
there is also something more important than a reputation for a man who has a reputation . a political leader has more opportunities than anyone else who would help people , and that should have been the highest priority of the yanukovych . but even if yanukovych thought of his interests , his personal enrichment was irrational . imagine he had stopped wondering what he was going to be happy about . imagine , in this context , comparing the alternative to the life of a rich man ( with a restaurant in private zoo and pirate-ship ) , with a living comfortably on a decent salary , which he had the right to , while he knew he was in charge of honesty and doing everything he could to improve the lives of the citizens of ukraine .
north korea is much less likely to be involved in its intentions , and it is not yet . it is still unclear whether the intention of the rest of the world is to constructive and sustained , or whether officials and diplomats merely want to divert international attention from the reputation of their country as nuclear weapons - mongers and violators of human rights . indeed , the visit to the incheon is part of a mixture of reports . two days before the delegation of north korea , the committee for peace reunification of korea , officially part of the korean labor party , condemned the " south korean puppet forces for seriously violating the declaration of north south korea and pushing the north-south into the worst disaster . " on the day of the incheon visit , north korea 's state news agency continued to broadcast the bellicose and derogatory language to the south korea and us : " we are hiding behind this is the interior design of the ulterior structure of the system of our system to [ prod ] more zealously with the southern korean puppet forces to escalate the confrontation with the rainbow in an effort to bring the situation to extreme extreme extreme pitch and ignite the second korean war . "
when the idea is intuitively true and false , it is often because it is true at one level , but not at the level of application . yes , people specialize in it , and they should also specialize in it . everyone benefits when we become good at different things and exchange our knowledge with others . for example , it is not effective for a dentist and lawyer to be the same . but specialization at individual levels leads to a diversification of levels at a higher level .
organisms with a gene-drive drive drive are intended to be extended for an indefinite period of time , and mosquitoes , especially women , can surf the air currents at a relatively high altitude ( 40-290 m or 131-951 m ) , where the wind can blow them up for hundreds of miles . this means that consent would be significantly beyond the release of the point.subscribe no 4 ( text align : central ) ; } only for a limited period of time , they would have access to the point , the large picture , and the archive of the ps , and the annual magazine , for only $ 75 . civil society groups operating in the test-site villages and around them have not been adequately consulted on the work of malaria targets . on the contrary , several people asked for an experimental release of genetically modified mosquitoes to be halted until the risk and consequences were properly investigated , and civil society in burkina faso was fully informed that malaria had no commitment to consent , which is reflected in its rhetoric , which is a clear word " agreement , " but is regularly used as " engagement " and " community acceptance . " this option may indicate that the leaders of the organization have already decided to proceed with the release , which , after the un convention , has already been reinforced by the objective malaria , which has attempted to distinguish between the requirement of free , prior and informed consent in the medical research of individuals ( if required ) and in the context of public health .
many others simply discouraged and left the labor force entirely : not at school , not at work , and they did n't look for work . they do n't protest much , but they end up in prison for a long time . the world 's labor markets are now connected to each other , and they are connected . young people in different countries , such as egypt , and we are now competing with young chinese and indians for work . china 's low-paid manufacturing workers and high-quality infrastructure ( roads , energy , ports and communications ) have set a standard for competitiveness worldwide .
article 7 of the lisbon treaty provides for the suspension of the voting rights of a member of the member state in a rogue eu . but since this " nuclear option " requires a unanimous vote from all member states , everyone knows it will never be used . article 7 is such an ineffective deterrent that it serves the interests of rulebreakers , but it guarantees that it will not be punished . the orbán has been searching for years , encouraging other populists to pursue their own authoritarian objectives - and instead of funds being put in place . but weakening the law is not just a matter of domestic origin in the hunt or in the country .
in iraq , the bush continued to pursue a policy of the " iraq " program , claiming that there was an irrefutable evidence of connection to al qaeda , and that the saddam had weapons of mass destruction . even before the invasion , there was a great deal of evidence that the bush was lying . the detection technology clearly showed that iraq had no nuclear weapons , as the chief inspector of the hans blix pointed out . it 's possible the bush read the report , but he did n't understand . it is also possible that he did not believe what he had read , and that he had not believed in it .
all these groups are driven by nihilistic anger , born of enmity against non-sunnis , and rejection of modernity . unfortunately , as the bombings of sri lanka and other attacks in asia show , the defeat of the isis in syria and iraq has only intensified the fight against terrorism , as the battle with the operational training of the fighters at the stage of fierce attacks is returning home . the presence of such returnees in sri lanka explains how a group of mysterious local groups could carry out complex attacks on three churches and three hotels using military explosives . the returnees are also present in many other asian countries , from philippines and indonesia to maldives and uzbekistan . like osama bin laden and other al-qaeda leaders , who cut their teeth in the battle against the soviet occupation of afghanistan , this new generation of jihadist veterans could have pursued asia , the middle east , and the west for years .
denver - new new year 's angelina jolie , " in the country of blood and honey , " is about ethnic tensions that have caused the most bloody conflict in europe since world war ii . the film has already won two awards , and it is a growing success in box-office , which confirms the lasting interest - and perhaps a mystery - that the balkans have held international audiences , which have been so appalled by the events of the 1990 " s. for those who lived and worked in the region for a tumultuous decade , the post-yugoslava wars remain fresh wounds . as jolie 's film shows so clearly , neither international community nor local leaders have tried to prevent bloodshed . one exception - perhaps the only exception - was the president of macedonia , who died in his sleep on the day of the new year 94 .
there is evidence that foreign investments are falling , and that is contributing to a disappointing investment in the economy . this trend is also increasing the challenges associated with low productivity growth , and the development of the market is still increasing . there are also indications that companies with operations based on the operation on the basis of the operation have begun to draw up contingency plans for a long period of time , planning and waiting . in addition to the transfer of investments from uk , businesses will also begin to relocate jobs . and this process will likely accelerate , even if british prime minister theresa is able to get a proposed exit agreement through parliament .
it supports local decisions whenever possible , but also supports decisions at national and european level , and the key is that procedures should be flexible and enable citizens to participate . he recognizes that shared sovereignty will make europe more influential , and thus strengthen its citizens . globalization considers it a good thing , but it is understood that it must be managed by stable and effective international agreements and institutions . the polls are now wildly bouncing , as fillon scandal and a wave of support for the hamon between the left-wing voters outside the socialist party . but if macron is entitled to the second round , he will pose a greater threat to the pen than the right candidate for the wing .
the european project is a response to globalization and its challenges , and it is a real response . it was launched to create a solidarités de fait , promote political stability and strengthen democracy and social model of the european union . europe wants to contribute positively to global development . this is not nostalgia for the glory of the past , but for the glory of the past . across europe , there is an unprecedented degree of solidarity , as it has been clear from collective sadness and a wave of sympathy for spain , and we must build on this huge potential to create a sense of solidarity in the world .
for starters , his answer to the famous question of queen elizabeth ii is : " why did n't anyone see it ? " the cheerful response of krugman is that the new keynesians have looked in the opposite direction . their failure was not a theory , but a " collection of data . " they " overlooked " fundamental institutional changes in the financial system that were not implemented . although it was regrettable , it did not raise any " deep conceptual " - that is , it did not require them to reconsider their theory .
the same is true of kaczyński.another significant difference is that eastern europe 's people tend to have more materialist attitudes than western citizens , who have overcome concerns about physical security , and they have accepted what sociologist ronald inglehart calls " post-materialist values . " this difference is one aspect of the fact that east europe 's eastern europe societies are more vulnerable to attacks on abstract liberal institutions such as freedom of speech and judicial independence . after all , liberalism in the eastern part of the eurozone is a major import . despite the fact that we and uk have overcome all the phenomena , we have deeply entrenched cultures of political and social liberalism . in eastern europe , civil society is not only weaker , but also more focused on areas such as charity , religion and leisure , and not on political issues.in the vast political environment of europe 's post-communist states , the left is either very weak or completely lacking in political mainstream .
but that 's a big " if " if it 's not for you . as far as the eurozone is concerned , we are too optimistic , although we have predicted a reduction in growth by 1.5 % . most forecasters have now put the region 's growth potential at around 1 % . if germany ca n't move to a domestic growth model , it 's likely to be correct . but while most press coverage focused on the decline in exports and production of germany , the country 's services sector remained strong .
however , the scope of these transfers would depend on financial policy at the time of the adoption , the outcome of the accession negotiations and the development of turkey economic development . in any event , the " capping " of the eu budget would prevent an explosion of financial costs associated with the accession of turkey . immigration should not be a reason for the lack of undue concern , but also for the issue of immigration . human mobility is limited , and turkey workers would probably be able to move freely within the framework of the term " free " within a long period of time , possibly before 2025 . given the expected increase in the turkey economy and the declining birthrate , experts estimate that about 2.7 million immigrants will be there .
more than most people know that gospels treat recalcitrant jews - those who refuse to accept jesus as their messiah - as perpetrators of a crime that is committed in all generations . anti-semites often call for a passage in the matthew , where a jewish crowd cheers for the execution of christ and willingly accept the blame : " his blood will be on us and on our children . " then matthew will tell the jews that the resurrection and disappearance of jesus ' body is repeated , and he will be taken away by his disciples at night . the later evangelist john concludes that , as the jews deny the christian messiah , they must be the " devil 's sons . " as white men attribute extraordinary sexual power to blacks , the christian west instinct is to treat jews as masters of extraordinary forces - including the ability to kill deities and control the world 's finances .
but with too much effort , politics and provincialism , reform has never happened . the idea that this country is different , that global financial rules have not been applied , has proved to be utterly absurd . at the time of the crisis , the disease looked like everyone else who was turning desperately toward the imf . the last decision of the thailand to cut interest rates has made it safe to bet on the bafe , the opening of the crisis . the thai central bank , supported by the illusion of a strong reserve position , took on speculators - and lost .
thanks to the effort of the protest movement , the france has now made concessions . but how can these concessions be secured under pressure , under pressure , under pressure ? this is a task that non-governmental organizations and protest movements are not well equipped : they can raise public conscience , but they can not formally commit to government . only other governments can do it , and they will be able to do it . so the effort to get rid of the concessions that protests have taken , the hour of government .
the task is to complicate the cohort of informed elites in russia . as the russian top russian propagandist dmitry kiselev recently admitted , " higher education in humanities ( and social sciences ) is causing social unrest . " he did n't surprisingly complain that " too many russian men study these subjects . most of the russian population will not be well informed overnight , and they will not be able to communicate with each other . but , since the regime is forced to devote more resources to the information , most of them will suffer from economic consequences .
london - officials at the chinese bank have long insisted that china will not be armed with the renminbi . and yet , given their promise of not manipulating the currency for strategic purposes , they can do it if they want . china 's monetary policy has now come to the point that president donald trump has imposed import tariffs on many chinese goods . many people wonder if china will respond to trump 's trade war by jeopardizing the currency war . if he does , the world should call it a bluff , and it 's not going to happen .
immigrants , apart from the contribution to the workforce 's size and productivity , often complement the skills of workers born in the native country and help them earn more . my professional focus is on economics , so i have emphasized the growth role . but this is not the only factor behind the rise in populist nationalism . the fact that developed countries are changing culturally is also important , perhaps even more . for example , foreign population shares in the population rose from 5 % in 1960 to 14 % in the same day .
this shift will clear the way for generational changes in leadership - and , above all , the transition to post-oslo politics . the old haplo guard - men like the yasser arafat and abbas , led the liberation organization from exile and returned home with the oslo harmonica - dominated the palestinian political landscape . when they leave the scene , the palestinian leaders , who were born under occupation and spent time in prison in iraeli , will likely fill the vacuum . the most important figure is marwan barghouti , the leading student movement at the university of birzeit in 1980 , and one of the main organisers of the first intifada , which led to the fact that israel had been deportation at the end of the 1980 " s. in 2002 , he was arrested and sentenced to a prison sentence for the charge he had taken two years ago .
these are the main ingredients of the nationalist stew that seem to be calling on russia . according to putin 's latest speech to parliament , his regime is fully aware of the danger posed by the nationalists of populist . it is likely that the regime will try to overcome this nationalism explosion while maintaining its strong rhetoric . but to defeat the right , putin 's regime will have to be forced to stand on more or less liberal ideological reasons . this will not be easy for a regime based on two pillars of bureaucracy and security equipment .
in taiwan , tsai is committed to the same thing as the two of us . last year , tsai promised to make a taiwan nuclear-free taiwan nuclear power out of 2025 . coal and natural gas are currently providing more than two-thirds of the needs of the country 's electricity , with renewable energy of 5 % . tsai called for a share of renewable energy to increase by 20 % over the next eight years , with the capacity of the wind from the sun and from the sea . this new charge would easily replace the power generated by six nuclear reactors .
as the production of these fuels grows , we will need policies , programs and capacities that will ensure that they are used in a sustainable way , without damaging food markets , or jeopardizing food security , which will always be the first priority . the pioneers of biofuels are likely to be surprised how little they contribute to today 's total supply of fuel . the first engine of rudolf , which was created at the end of the 19th century , was powered by fuel derived from peanut oil . henry ford once searched florida in the hope that he would buy the land 's trail of sugar cane , convinced that the united states would not tolerate the pollution of burning fossil fuels , or the reliance on oil imported from oil . only in recent decades have biofuels returned to the original appeal , as they have tried to secure affordable energy , generate income , and mitigate the dependence of ford .
many british people believe in a " free trade empire . " " " they do n't believe it . " others supported the flames of the anglo-german antagonism , the caricaturing protectionist germany , as well as the barbarian society , surviving on horses and dogs ; george , the future prime minister , told the audience that he was more afraid of german sausages than the german navy . one of the reasons for the free trade was that , a century ago , protectionism was defeated by its supporters , who were attracted to the emotions and identities of people , not just because of their rational interest in wealth and cheap food . liberals and radicals organised travel shows , posters of color and political entertainment . in cities , the display in shop windows was illustrated by the cost of tariffs for ordinary consumers .
the regulatory environment of the laws has proven to be deadly , and it has encouraged north europe 's banks to balance their balance sheets with the government and banks of southern europe . when the bubble burst , it left in a woefully expensive economy that lost its competitiveness . europe should now use the peace between the storm fronts to rethink the eurozone currency union . it is necessary to fail to create an equivalent euro for the dollar and to impose a fiscal union on it , even if there is no common european state . it will make member countries debtors and creditors more animosity .
indeed , the latter is now standing at a rate of 15 % of the percentage of the percentage of the percentage of the percentage of the percentage . exports of chinese are likely to result in currency depreciation in the region , but it is unlikely that they will feel immediately . rival asian economies will have to be stabilized before they can aggressively export . inflation in some countries may also increase in the coming rate of floating exchange . for this reason , the competitiveness of exports in terms of price competitiveness may be reduced .
moreover , there are real disagreements between us bureaucracy when it comes to assessing the threat that al qaeda poses in mali 's interests . therefore , the following values are operational and symbolic . the operation is limited to the island and does not involve ground troops . symbolically , it means supporting the initial and significant efforts of others . for europe , this situation is worrying about two things that are going to happen .
the private sector has a large foreign property , while the government has about the same amount of foreign commitments . even so , the argentina was bankrupt , as rich argentines were taking their assets out of the country , and thus they did not reach the government , while poor argentines refused to pay taxes that would be required to satisfy the claims of foreign creditors . however , if the foreign property of a given country is not owned by households , it is possible to identify them and tax them by institutions such as pension funds . this is mainly the case in the european union , which is why it is a case of european importance . this analysis suggests that " excessive imbalances " to be introduced under ongoing eurozone governance reform is in the right direction .
disappointed in political leaders , algerians are largely out of their shared love for football . the stars of barcelon , the real madrid , the chelsea and the milan are the names of the household . but the exposure to foreign television stations also means that many of the disillusioned algerians are seeking escape to italy , france , or germany , as their only hope of employment and decent life . will the next few months bring real changes to the algeria , which will be true ? will social and economic reforms be implemented in order to ensure a fair distribution of oil and gas wealth ?
lower interest rates have worked , but not so much , as they have increased investment , but as households have led to refinance mortgages and fuel bubbles in housing prices . in short , as the greenback is gradually fading , the us economy is burdened with high debt and debt from the state and fragile balance sheets - a legacy that has already contributed to global financial instability . it is still unclear what led to the greenback to support the reduction in taxes . was it a huge economic mistake or was he seeking a favor with the bush administration ? the most likely explanation is that the two of them , as they and the bush , are pursuing the same political strategy of " starve the animal , " which requires tax cuts to be used to reduce revenue , and thus reduce the size of the public sector .
the recent example of conflicts of land rights may be the stage of political and humanitarian crises . competition for arable land has contributed to the genocide of the rwandan in 1994 . a historical drought could have caused the conditions of the civil war in syria . and food insecurity , which is caused by land mismanagement , is an important factor in the transport of immigrants to europe . the problems related to the land will continue to threaten global stability , especially if climate change is exacerbated by the existing problems .
because they lead much more intensive lifestyles than others , they will contribute much more to the dividend of carbon . more importantly , they would pay more than they would have returned , while the poorest 60 % of americans would have returned more than they had been . in short , the dividend would be distributed from a largely rich polluters to a largely low-cost and middle-income polluters , while reducing emissions of coal 2 . he would personally represent a clever step in the right direction - a step that would not invite a " yellow vest " reaction . but do n't let anyone tell you it 's a silver bullet , and you 're not afraid of it .
another lesson for sarkozy from germany is that enlightened corporations need support for political leadership and trade unions . the german chancellor anela merkel does not make speeches that threaten the euro and the european central bank 's mandate for price stability . on the contrary , it supports an independent ecb and allows germany trade unions and businesses to know that they will have to live with strong currency and anti-inflation policy . this does n't mean merkel is a capitalist on the free market - there 's no evidence of it . rather , he understands that the euro and the ecb must remain competitive in an economy that must remain unprofitable , and they send bad signals .
thanks to its geopolitical importance , germany 's perspective is now synonymous with the perspective of the european union . and the view of the eu eu is not a hegemon , but it is more about the rule of law , integration and peaceful reconciliation of the interests of the member states . germany 's position is only a bad idea for nationalism , and its most important political and economic interests depend on strong and successful eu , especially in the age of decline . germany is on the same ship as all other europeans in the area of security . as well as without german security , no german security can be found without a poll .
the same is true of antidepressants , and the same is true of antidepressants . there is no doubt that ect can cause a loss of short term memory . critics , however , found it difficult to show memory or other cognitive problems that occurred for more than three months . the permanent autobiographical memory disorder and the inability to recall lists can not be easily attributed to the ect , since the ect is rarely given by itself . very few people who are receiving ect do not also receive benzodiazepines , which cause serious autobiographical memory problems only in the case of their own and antipsychotic drugs , which cause problems with the list of names and telephone numbers , and other comparable problems .
if so , it would not be necessary for national bankruptcy law to be defined as priority and fair treatment . but no government has yet found cacs that would be appropriate for the solution of the domestic restructuring . so why should we think they 're enough in a much more complex world of sovereign debt restructuring ? in particular , cacs suffer from the " aggregation problem " problem . if the cac is required , say 75 % of all bond holders , vultures can buy 26 % of bond classes and block restructuring .
instead , it should strengthen the issue of open dialogue and strict negotiations - exactly what has been lacking in western policy for the crisis of the kraine and the entire post-soviet eurasian region . we have reached this point precisely because russia and the west have spent more than a decade searching for unilateral benefits and chewing the agreed compromises . the constant talks in the current atmosphere of distrust , mutual recount , and fear will require a considerable investment in political capital . the transition to other adversarial approaches to the search for common ground will take time . it 's not going to be possible to make a quick deal , but it 's not possible .
but it also represents a global standard of gold , including technology , defense and research . unlike china 's historical experience , america 's historical experience has instilled citizens and leaders to freedom , including free markets and local autonomy . the size and strength of the federal government grew only very slowly by the 1930 " s , when a new agreement was introduced , which included federal programs , public works , and financial reforms and regulations . the federal government has expanded again during and after wwii , reflecting the new global hegemony and prosperity of its middle class ( which has not been created by the support of the new trade for unionization and ownership of the home economy ) . the government has taken a larger role in the area of defense and foreign policy to health and social security .
the exact number of european fighters who have been training from the island and returned home is still unknown . abdelhamid abaaoud , who led the attack on november 2015 , claimed he was one of 90 isis-trained terrorists in europe . the isis allegedly trained 400-600 fighters for " external operations " involving guerrilla warfare , improvised explosive equipment , surveillance , anti-security and forgery . the isis have so far been on france and the turkey is the hardest . the turkey suffered more than 230 deaths and about 700 injuries .
in order to take into account the learning crisis in many developing countries , governments and development agencies , it is necessary to consider more opportunities for strategic partnerships with providers who are not state . for example , in bangladesh schools run by brac , women 's teachers ( which are key to raising the number of girls ) and leading government-run schools to learn outcomes . fortunately , the afghan government has begun to open its doors to innovative models of new ngo , such as the " brac " educational program . but the lack of qualified teachers is making it difficult to overcome such efforts . women are only one-third of all teachers in primary and secondary schools in the afghan , partly because of the high number of women 's literacy .
these economic shocks have exposed the huge costs of political system based on individual countries . and demonstrators , driven by economic grievances , were encouraged to improve the security conditions , as a result of the defeat of the islamic state and the end of the war in syria . in all of these countries , the seriousness of economic mismanagement reflects the long-term use of state spending to finance the allies and clients of the regime , rather than the benefits of the entire population . these systems have dominated the private sector of each country by using cronyism , not only to extract and distribute rents to clients , but also to prevent autonomous entities from being funded by resistance movement . as a result of the misallocation of capital and skills , the business environment has deteriorated , competition , innovation and growth have been affected .
but the flexibility in response to economic shocks will certainly be tested by the commission . at the moment , it is clear that differences , even discordant , fiscal responses are now being debated by the european union 's union . this raises the old question of whether the monetary union can work without a fiscal union or at least strengthen and more binding fiscal rules ( the commitments to the main deficit are too easily breached ) . in order to achieve this , we must add coordinated financial regulation and financial bailout policies , as deposits are rapidly flowing across borders in response to national guarantees and insurance in the euro area . will the second decade of the euro be as successful as the first one ?
today , language barriers prevent immigrant parents from helping children with their homework , as the texts are only english . but imagine a world where textbooks are adapted to many styles of learning and translated into countless languages . today , pluto remains on the planet 's list of scientific textbooks , and who knows how long it will take to get rid of it . but imagine the world where textbooks are constantly updated and corrected by the legions of suppliers . the world was just a dream , and it was a decade ago , and i could n't believe it .
if only they could be in china , they would have taken part in the chinese . one strong thought school emerged from 1989 , and the more radical student leaders were reckless . it should have been clear to them that the violent intervention was inevitable , and that 's why it 's not going to happen . the students were encouraged by the regime , and they did not allow them to slow political reforms , which were carefully prepared by their moderate elders . indeed , china has not yet been prepared for democracy , so the advocates of this school have often added .
the delivery problems are in the war zone , but not everywhere , but in the entire world . yet international donors are already taking their feet in fulfilling existing commitments and in the implementation of new ones . and all the help in the world wo n't stop the killing , and i 'm not going to let you know . it is too late for non-military enforcement tools to have a great impact , although the security council is threatening to commit crimes in the criminal trial - including any use of chemical weapons - must remain on the table . but what about military responses that still strongly favored many politicians and pundits ?
for example , when trump calls for a reduction in the military involvement of the middle east , it 's just an echo of obama . but trump , who had restored nuclear weapons to iran , had already made a war in the region more likely . and by going out of the way , he had reinforced china 's position in east asia to alleviate north korea 's international isolation . trump 's global trade war is as self-defeating as it is now . by slapping rates on american allies , he practically leads them into china 's arms .
each country could create a board representing public authorities ( transport , construction , customs ) and large users ( exporters and logistics companies ) , which must work together to find a way to reduce the cost of logistics . communication between users and government services is essential to achieve any real improvement in the market . however , it is equally important that committees be developed in similar areas in the province of each country . goods do not need to pass through capital , as in most latin america and caribbean countries , and associated costs increase . the regions can then be converted into engines that will increase the growth of the population .
the ideas of the fda have broad support for germany and germany 's economy ( and many other economists share them ) . and they are consistent with the positions of the german ministry of finance , which was held by the previous government . but policies that could work in a perfect world of efficient and resilient financial markets could be dangerous if they were used in the most perfect real markets . as we have seen a decade ago , financial institutions operating in an uncertain environment may be unstable and collapsing , which will bring high costs to society . the idea of a temporary exit from the euro is particularly poorly advised by the euro .
will it come back to strong growth or will we have a recovery of anemic power in the 1990 " s. i have now voted for them , especially since the huge debt legacy is likely to dampen the enthusiasm for the great stimulus needed . without a sufficiently large stimulus ( more than 2 % of the total cost of the budget ) , we will have a negative spiral : a weak economy will mean more serious bankruptcy , which will lead to a reduction in stock prices , and interest rates will increase , thereby jeopardizing consumer confidence and weakening banks . further , consumption and investments will be reduced , and the return of the investment will be reduced . many street financiers who have received a large amount of money return to their tax religion for a small deficit .
the best opportunity for humanity to improve the welfare of humans for the next decade and half . it has helped to increase poverty by more than a billion people over the last quarter of the century . reducing trade barriers could also double the average income of the world 's poorest regions for 15 years . yes , free trade costs need to be addressed better , but their costs are significantly higher than benefits . but in rich countries today , the mood has turned against the free trade .
but muslim in sub-saharan africa , like most muslim men around the world , exhibit a mentality against them . when muslims form a minority , they tend to live in peace with other religions , but where their population is significant ( as in nigeria ) , they tend to claim themselves . whatever ethnic and other divisions are at stake , the " us and them " sentiments have played a great role in inciting religious conflicts in nigeria . however , nigeria ( and possibly zanzibar ) remains an exception to the islamic assertiveness of the sub-saharan africa , which is why the idea of an active " islamic world " includes only a relatively limited part of the sub-saharan african muslims . whether they like it or not , most of the sub-saharan african muslims are represented by states that are mostly secular , christians , or dominated by other religions .
indeed , the piketty argues that our " obsession with growth " merely serves as an excuse for not being healthy , education or redistribution . " and it 's an obsession that has roots in the present , and it 's a great obsession . " we forget that growth has been essentially zero for centuries , " he writes . " one percent of real growth means doubling the economy 's economy every 30 or 35 years . " piketty sees that as a reason , " being a little optimistic . "
for good reason , many europeans are sensitive to human rights issues in hong kong , xinjiang and others . the european parliament is also rightly concerned about economic issues , and it is not a problem . as the european commission has warned earlier this year ( under its previous leadership ) , china is an " economic competitor in the pursuit of technical leadership and systemic rival support for alternative governance models . " this language represents a sharp departure from the language of the previous official communiqués of eu . the next year , it will be critical to make a decision on the issue .
although democrats often criticize trump 's approach , they do not propose further liberalization of trade . the final question is to assess the presidential candidates , who will be appointed as the next chair of the federal reserve . trump - who has repeatedly criticized the current chair 's jerome reputation for pursuing too few easing monetary-policy - would likely choose a candidate for dovish . a leftwing democrat could do the same , given the fascination of the left with risky ideas that support a large amount of debt financed by the money . center-leftists - candidates , amy klobuchar , pete buttigieg - could reappoint powell , who did well , or choose a moderate democratic economist , such as a former vice-president of the vice president of alan blinder or former secretary of the treasurer of the summer .
for example , the boston globe was an article about a man - identified only by his first name , danny - who had been arrested three days after the attack . danny said the only word of the brothers ' conversation was that he understood that he was manhattan , and that the terrorists asked him if his car could leave the state - say , to go to new york . the one-source report on the planet has not proved anything - and has not been verified by other journalists or citizens - but it has suggested much , leading to the fact that the same unverifiable reports have been directed at new york . the other recent " horror " reports , which relate to them , are as thin as possible . in charles savage 's recent report on the guantánamo " uprising , " the new york times reported the arsenal that the gitmo officials were still showing in the video .
these gains were not evenly distributed , and sub-saharan africa was much less developed than in other areas . the second study , which was funded by the ifad and recently released by the institute for international food policy research , is examining the global economic downturn that began in 2012 in the context of the rural population . it is clear that 38 million people will remain in extreme poverty by 2030 , rather than likely , with families in the middle of the country in which the income is particularly high . this is a serious challenge for the poor people to end poverty " in all forms , " and strengthen the policy and investment of rural areas , which are needed to reduce poverty and have a greater impact . the progress of rural areas is still revealing the future potential of the future .
these policies could then be completely subordinate to the demand for the mobility of capital and gold . but once the political franchise was extended , the working class was organized , and mass politics became a norm , and domestic economic objectives began to compete with external rules and restrictions . the classic case is that brandon 's short-lived return to gold in the interwar period . the attempt to reconstruct the model of globalization before the world 's war in 1931 , when domestic politics forced the british government to choose domestic resistance over the gold market . the architects of the bretton forest regime have kept this lesson in mind when they have redesigned the world 's monetary system in 1944 .
washington , dc - more than 60 % of all women employed in the agricultural sector in sub-saharan africa . but women in the region often harvest a meager harvest , not because of bad weather or bad soil quality , but because of their gender - or , more specifically , because of a dense network of laws , policies , programs , and customs , which are at a disadvantage . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur .
the need to mitigate the human misery that fills the television screens and newspaper pages is not necessary to miss significant medium-term opportunities for migration . although europe 's unemployment pockets are now high , the ratio of workers to the elderly will be significantly reduced . and , as a result , flexibility in the labour market has already been undermined by structural inertia , including difficulties in retraining and retraining workers , especially long-term unemployed . as the german government and several leading companies , including the ceo of dairy benz , have already recognized an open approach to the absorption and integration of refugees , may help mitigate some of the european protracted structural problems . after all , it is said that a significant proportion of the refugees are educated , motivated and promised to build a better future in their new homes .
for example , if an independent worker takes an hour for the dog and takes the dog for an hour on the carriageway , each platform will be equal to its benefits . this would allow independent workers to collect and manage their benefits and eventually acquire a security network similar to that of a full-time employee . by 2030 , the chances of employment workers will increase by 80 million young africans . and if access to a range of valued benefits from health insurance to pension benefits is conditional upon the registration of their business and taxes , they will have a strong reason to formalize their activities . digitization could enable the industry to provide a range of benefits for workers and employers .
for example , it must take action to protect the rural environment , to ensure the welfare of animals , to improve education , transfer of knowledge and training for farmers and farmers . british politicians must also go beyond ad hoc responses to natural disasters and disasters caused by humans by building more effective and reliable protection systems . for example , they could facilitate farmers " insurance or create a system of mutual-aid . the implementation of these initiatives ( and financing ) will require a sustained political will . the uk must also ensure that new technologies can be used in the agricultural sector .
frankfurt - europe 's central bank is in the midst of a big risky experiment . the key interest rates have remained close to zero for six years , and the interest rate has not changed . financial markets are flooded with liquidity , and they have a great deal of money . the crisis management has caused serious market distortions , and some segments have no longer been explained by basic economic data . the unintended consequences of this policy are increasingly visible - and will be increasingly evident with the fact that the federal reserve will be released from the post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy .
it is easy to forget that telephones had no buttons or buttons years ago - you had to pick up the handset and ask the operator to connect . the phone number was only in 1919 , when the first group of " users interface scientists " in western electric power was considered to be the most intuitive form . the key is to improve the interface between the computer and the form of the form . we have seen hints of a new paradigm in the iphone of apples , which allows gestural movements of the finger , but in intelligence , the notion of concept can be so radical that ordinary users can hardly understand what it is . the design is inspired by scientific knowledge , art , and even science-fiction .
but it 's still not the whole story , and i 'm not gon na tell you . as plato says , the name of prometheus means " foresight , " since he has always looked ahead , unlike his carefree brother epimetheus , whose name means " hindsight . " as the more sensible and justifiably paranoid about them , prometheus tried to warn his brother not to accept zeus 's dangerous gift . but epimetheus was charmed by pandora , and he welcomed her silently in his life . only later did he realize that he had made a terrible mistake in his life .
it 's a chance they 'll do it again , and they 'll do it again . indeed , the gravity of the last crisis is easy : it is not really serious to argue that the immediate cause of the crisis , which is closely investigated , is not so serious . the problem is that the draft constitution would provide a new and simpler way to vote in ministers . according to the method adopted three years ago at a top of the eu eu eu eu , each member state has a certain number of votes , weighted according to the population , but small countries are protected by a corresponding vote than the large countries . this system is known as a qualified majority of votes , but it is also known that this system is a highly qualified vote .
rome - prices of many basic foods have increased dramatically during 2007-2008 , and many developing countries have caused a food crisis . international maize prices , rice and wheat have reached the highest levels in 30 years , causing political and economic instability - and leading to food unrest . the crisis has contributed several factors , including high oil prices , high demand for bio-fuel crops , a global supply of food commodities and a lower supply of cereals . strong economic growth and extensive monetary policies have further strengthened the development of protectionist measures such as export restrictions . although these factors undoubtedly increase food prices , they can not explain the steep increase .
the similarity with the views of the islamic state is glaring at the same time . in a video from the battle for the mosul dam in august , the group called for the end of the sykes-picot and declared that it was necessary to redraw the political map of the middle east , which was set up in the west . the erdoan 's efforts to restore the turkey 's primacy in the world of the sun are forcing him to deal with this challenge to the western region 's order . the turkey has provided logistical support to the islamic state , although it enabled the killing of the group to kill thousands of civilians in the syrian city of kobani on the doorstep of the turkey . this highlights another issue on which turkey and islamic state converge : kurds .
he has not yet claimed that these markets are acting as the most beautiful of the world 's jewry ( architects , many turkeys of the islamists believe , the young turk revolution in 1908 , and the secular republic , which arose after the war . but his main supporters have heard the dog whistle behind his condemnation of financial forces - forces that now seem to demand higher interest rates . but no current leader is more susceptible to scientific and half-baked conspiracy theories than us , president , and wannabe authoritarian , donald . it should never be forgotten that trump had gotten into politics by supporting the racist argument about " birther , " which claimed that this " birther " was not born in us , and thus did not qualify for the office he had in his hand . since the arrival of a white house , the madness has only grown in its own way .
we are also doing everything we can to attract the ukrainian population to foreign investors . in the energy sector , we privatize the distributors of the state 's energy market . western advisers are helping us to ensure complete transparency in the course of the tender and eliminate the problems we have experienced in the past . we are about to attract large western energy companies , who have experience in this area as a strategic investor . ten leading international energy companies will participate in privatization of the first group of companies .
but chinese policy decisions have a significant impact on other asian countries , and china 's " state capitalist " economic model is now being replaced elsewhere . of course , japan , korea and singapore had similar policy models in the past ( although they later adapted them to their growth in the gdp ) . but these countries are now once again calling on state capitalism and returning to industrial policy ( which , in 2008 , has been supported by global financial meltdown , which has given rise to a new reason for the return of government intervention ) . in japan , the privatization of postal services must be re-nationalised and strengthening the role of government finances . the japan air line , which was almost bankrupt , was saved by a government bailout , which seemed to be more common .
without the eb 's commitment since 2012 to prevent sovereign debt revenues from rising , the eurozone would be permanently threatened - and , indeed , the entire structure of the european union 's debt defaults . but at least the euro has benefited from the fact that commodity prices have fallen . many emerging economies , which are highly dependent on commodity exports , have been highlighted by the reset of commodore prices , slow growth in developed economies and slower growth in china . capital flights would significantly contribute to their plight - in some cases , in some cases , disastrous . since 2008 , the world has become accustomed to this connection and lovers .
let the world remember that gaza 's crisis is a disaster caused by a human being . and let the world realise that the conditions are worse today than ever since the start of the occupation . seventy-nine percent of the population of gaza is in poverty , eight out of ten depend on food help . nearly half of the workforce is unemployed , and the local industry has collapsed , and the number of workers has fallen . water and sewage systems are failing , and garbage is piling up on the streets .
the european union must accept responsibility for the lack of a common asylum policy that has changed the influx of refugees this year from manageable problems to another political crisis . each member state has selfishly concentrated on its own interests , and often acts against others . this led to panic among the asylum seekers , the public and the authorities responsible for the law and order . the main victims of asylum seekers were asylum seekers , but they were the victims of the asylum . instead , a comprehensive plan is needed to respond to the crisis , which will change effective governance over the flows of asylum seekers , so that they can be safely and orderly , and at a rate that reflects the european capacity to absorb them .
economists would concede that xi 's campaign had also taken many of his potential rivals . but he would argue that his strengthened position would allow him to replace a growth model based on debt financed by credit and something more sustainable . of course , if they 're right about it , we still have to see them . despite the success of xi 's consolidation of his power and its extension for an indefinite period of time , there is no doubt that he would be willing to risk a new economic model if sustainability is not compatible with the maintenance of rapid growth . here comes technologists , offering new ways of redress or avoiding potential mistakes .
american economist marshall feldstein wrote in 1997 that monetary union would create a conflict in europe . at the time , he was attacked and considered an uncompromising opponent of the european project . unfortunately , his opinion was correct : europe 's countries are now in a pile of ggerheads , not despite the common currency , but precisely because of that . history suggests that international disputes about debt and transfers are a serious threat to the public . in the 1920 " s and 1930 " s , representatives of the european states have devoted countless meetings to their solutions ( mainly german reparations ) .
while the main difference between nineteen eighty-four is between rulers and rulers , in a new brave world , people are divided into different social orders , according to different tastes and lifestyle . it is also possible to say that china is today , where the gaps between rich and poor people in the city and the countryside , as well as coastal and inland culture , are so large that people from different stages of life are much harder to feel that they have common lighting and objectives . of course , no novel offers a perfect lens to see every society . sometimes , as violence has been used to prevent the southern chinese peasants from protesting the official land , the ccp is still showing their willingness to use the " boot on their faces . " there have been more moments lately , which favor huxley 's vision of political order over the order of the orwell .
in many european countries , similar developments are also observed , especially in the southern part of europe . this suggests that progressive politicians , who plan to play an active government role in transforming economic opportunities , will face a battle for victory over voters . the fear of losing the battle may explain the timidity of the left . but the lessons of recent studies are that faith in what the government can do and what it should be done is not immutable . they are susceptible to persuasion , experience , and changes in circumstances that have been made .
copenen-in one of the first public statements , which was elected by the president of america , barack obama focused on climate change , and he clearly stated his priorities and facts that were the basis of these priorities . unfortunately , they 're both weak , or they 're even bad , and they 're not good . obama 's policy outline was presented via video to california governor arnold schwarzenegger 's global warming summit , and was once again shown in the poznan , poland , where the leaders were assembled to build a map of global warming . according to obama , " few challenges to america and the world are more urgent than the fight against climate change . " this statement is now common for most of the world 's political leaders , although it neglects the question of how much we can help america and the world through climate policy and other policies .
before he created an empire overseas - first in north america and in the caribbean , then in india and southeast asia - the english built the land empire by spreading from the southern islands to the northwest . thus , while the " outer empire " allowed the alignment of uk 's national identity with a common british identity , the " inner empire " was undoubtedly english . for centuries , the british empire was rich , supplied raw materials , and created a range of professional opportunities for all british islands . the mission of civilization created a sense of common sense , and a description of uninterrupted democratic and economic progress . but the combination of identity has always been incomplete , not least in ireland , where the decline of independence is still returning a century later , thanks to uncertainty caused by the northern " stop . "
freedom of expression and other fundamental rights are not elitist luxuries , as authoritarians claim . they are indispensable for the protection of free societies , and they are not in danger of security . moreover , a concerted campaign against corruption could serve as a unifying force in countries with deep political divisions . while the government 's leading majoritarian government can take a rough-ass stance on minorities ' interests , corrupt regimes will rob everyone . that 's why corruption provoked mass protests from bucharest to brasilia last year .
trump 's geopolitical and economic views should be assessed in this context , not by an ideal moral or economic standard . in other words , trumpism could be a solution to liberalism , not to interfere with it . this way , trump 's isolationism is a populist way to say that we need to withdraw from the commitments that we do not have the power or will to honor . the promise of russia 's end to a fierce conflict in syria is sensible , although it means victory in bashar al-assad 's regime . the biggest challenge will be to disengage peacefully from exposed global responsibilities .
madrid - in 1996 , binyamin netanyahu won the general election by mobilizing large constituencies against the prime minister against peres , who allegedly wanted to " divide jeranyahu . " nearly two decades later , the network remains committed to old , empty slogans about " united jerans " - a belief that could once again be unravel in the process of peace in the islands . as secretary of state john kerry prepares to present a framework agreement for a final round of negotiations on the peace of the israeli-palestinian , the net 's hardline position on jeris simply a non-starter . in the last desperate attempt to improve the chances of success in the proposal , president barack obama - who has largely avoided the proactive role of peace during the second term - has met with netanyahu in the white house to encourage him to moderate his position . but changing the mind of the network will not be easy - not least because he is facing domestic political pressure .
the new port - the last summer day - was the beginning of another series of unnecessary policymaking by two major central banks in the world - a federal reserve and a bank of japan . the food has n't done anything , which is exactly the problem for the rest of us . and alchemists at the boj have yet to reveal another weak non-conventional policy game . both the fed and boj are pursuing strategies that are woefully disconnected from the economy they have been entrusted to . moreover , their latest measures strengthen the commitment to a more insidious mechanism of transmission between monetary policy , financial markets and economies dependent on assets .
russia is a very important part of the solution in a strategic environment that is threatened by terrorism and the spread of mass destruction . if the summit of the shrimp does not show any new initiative , it is simply because we have already launched a new relationship between nature and russia , the last one of our special summit in rome . the new council of russia , created in rome , offers us an effective and flexible mechanism for joint analysis , joint decisions and even joint actions . over the last six months , much has been achieved to transform the policy report into practical cooperation . it was henry kissinger who argued after the terrorist attacks on new york and washington in 2001 that the tragedy could be an opportunity .
to the outside world , the suleimani was the head of a government terrorist activity outside ireland and a puppet master of his proxies across the region , not least in lbanon . but for the irish , he was a much more complex figure , and he was a very good man . while the regime hardliners regarded him as a hero , many irish people who had lost their loved ones in peaceful demonstrations , or who had objected to the attack on irish dissidents in the diaspora , had seen him differently . however , over the last few years , the regime has made a clever campaign to promote public relations to show the napolon or the caesarean poet . and as one of the few islamic revolutionary members of the guard corps ( irgc ) , who did not have a bad reputation for corruption , he was considered a candidate for the presidential election .
but he also wants to strengthen the economy by $ 50 billion ( $ 55 billion ) and extend the welfare policy . to straighten the circle , macron needs growth and rely on reforms to deliver it . it intends to reduce the corporation tax by 33 % to 25 % , and to eliminate the financial investment from property taxation . a vocal critic of protectionism will be pushed into the eucanada for a comprehensive economic and trade agreement , and transatlantic trade and investment cooperation with the united states . his support for the law of el khomri , which made it easier for the fire workers and resistance of 35-hour weeks , suggests that he intends to increase the flexibility of the french labor market .
praise : many americans seem to be overwhelmed by the sense that , as the soviet empire collapsed , the danger of war could be eliminated . america should pay attention to its problems and not engage in a world where its efforts to achieve good are rewarded with intransigence . isolationism has a long tradition in america , returning to its own , and in various ways . but in modern times , isolationism has never protected america from danger , and it is delayed by engagement when the flames are extinguished . eventually , america pays a thousand times more than it would have paid if it had started the crisis , or even better .
there is also a creative solution in the area of the market , which is why it is possible to find it . using a secure model supported by assets , we recently joined the green climate fund and china to build a $ 450 million green bond . this will allow pension funds and insurance companies to indirectly finance the necessary equipment in stores with mothers and pop and workshops from tijuana to ren del fuego . there are many other areas where people who are committed to climate change can follow our example . cities with closed traffic need to be better transported to the public and financing the expansion of the bus 's rapid transit system ( brt ) is proven to reduce congestion , emissions reduction and commuting costs .
europe 's ties , green cooperation with china and unity within europe could change anything . such an alliance would also allow for a new european policy , which would promote peace and sustainable development , which would be supported by new security measures that do not depend on us . europe , a magnet for hundreds of millions of people who would want economic immigrants , could , if i believe , regain control of their borders and allow them to strengthen and enforce the necessary migration limits . the political terms of the new coalition government are clear . the ministry should hold a statement for the leadership of the ministerial authorities in economic and financial policy , while the chancellor is in possession of a cduu / csu .
fortunately , that 's what abe is going to do , and that 's what he 's going to do . in any case , it is difficult to deny the success of monetary policy . but as the gap between the deflation is diminished , the overall impact of monetary policy will weaken , as prices are increasingly affected by price rather than output . that 's why it 's time for the leaders of japan to focus their attention on the first and second arrows of the demand-focused target to the third arrow , which is a new growth strategy . if there is sufficient excess supply in the economy , it is virtually useless to promote supply-side productivity without an effort to increase demand .
race is always provocative when science and statistics are intertwined with politics . this debate is now being reheated in france , as the planned introduction of ethnic statistics has caused a fierce dispute that is the center of french republicanism . according to the law , which dates back to the french revolution and has been confirmed in 1978 , the french government 's officials are not allowed to collect information about ethnic or racial origin , whether real or alleged , in the implementation of the census or in other attempts to collect statistical information about the population . there are two main reasons for this , and i do n't know why . the first is the republican principle , enshrined in the constitution , which recognizes only citizens , and does not recognize any difference between them because of their origin , race or religion .
no one wants to live in society where bribes are to be paid to secure basic public services such as health care or education . corruption will be possible only if there is an effective combination of smart prevention strategies and strong enforcement of the law , which is based on the belief that greed can be unlearned , the accountability can be taught , and the impunity can be terminated . the prevention should begin with education aimed at raising the expectations of its leaders in the area of citizens . in policy and business , integrity and accountability must be governed , not by an exception . knowledge sharing across countries could illuminate the most effective strategy for achieving this goal .
ministers must resign for minor offences that would seem trivial in other countries . convincing american , russian , nigerian or chinese citizens that corruption can be controlled could be futile . but the goal is certainly worth it , as the evidence is overwhelming : impunity is not just morally disgusting , but also economically costly and corrosive . recent studies have shown that , when " generalised trust " is high in society , economic results are improved , and life satisfaction is higher . among other reasons , trade agreements are more easily concluded and effective in terms of efficiency .
as they say , " the use of fiscal adrenaline can be limited only if necessary . " there is an urgent need to " restore the emergency arsenal , " especially if there is little room for monetary policy to be released . the meal started with normalizing monetary policy , but it did n't finish , and president donald trump did what he could to prevent them from doing it by throwing himself out of the way . the three musketeers are still positive about some of the elements of the post-crisis program . the bank 's capital has been significantly strengthened and the transparency of derivatives markets has significantly improved .
human rights do n't have to take a seat in the back to do business with china . many western observers have already thought that the norway 's trade relations with china will be undermined if they are invited to receive a nobel peace prize in oslo in december 2010 . china complained loudly , refusing to let liu collect the prize , and even threatened to take financial consequences . but the same month , one of the biggest chinese oil companies concluded a drilling agreement with the norway act , which clearly meant that diplomatic tensions would not end business . so western diplomats , who negotiate with china , should call for a lower level of officials , and focus on the signal and noise ratio , which , in the end , takes the decision quietly to a higher level by pragmatic leaders who are really susceptible to pressure .
this means that the focus of the system must be changed from speculative and proprietary trading to the creation of loans and jobs , which means reforms of financial regulation and anti-trust and corporate governance , as well as adequate enforcement of the law , so that markets do not become a fake casino . globalization has made all countries more dependent , and it is therefore necessary to strengthen global cooperation . we can hope that america will show greater leadership in the reform of the global financial system by promoting stronger international regulation , global reserve system , and better ways to restructure sovereign debt , addressing global warming , democratizing international economic institutions , and helping poor countries . americans should hope for all of this , though i 'm not sanguine , that they will get much of it . and more likely america will muddle with this program of struggling students and homeowners , the end of the tax cuts for millionaires is cut by the taxes on the bush , but no reform of wholesale taxes , serious cuts in defense spending , or significant progress in global warming . with the euro crisis that is likely to persist , america 's continued malaise is not well suited for global growth .
of course , the issue is completely out of control of the island 's control . the ongoing battle in the muslim world between sunnis and shia recalls the battle between protesters and catholics in the 17th century . it is no surprise that saudis , the jordanians , the egyptians and the gulf states are seeking to resist the ambition of the irish . however , the stakes are much higher than the 17th century , as ian poses a threat that combines fanatical religion with the intention of obtaining nuclear weapons . ian is the only country that openly declares his desire to destroy another member of the united states .
the strategic importance of dramatic heights , which is seen above the northern part of the island of the island of galilee , is clear . because syria , stripped of soviet support , is less of a threat to the island , the more flexible it is than ever , when the golan has been defending the israel not just against syria , but also against the bloc , which seems to extend to vladivostok . so , despite today 's interruption , there is a context for negotiations and political will . but the two parties " agendas are different : while syria focuses on the symbolic meaning of returning the gold , the israel wants a specific and entrenched guarantee of the security of the northeastern border , and the end of the syrian-supported hizbullah incursions from the lebanon - a country that is essentially a syrian protectorate . for israel , quid pro quo , when the golan returns , is not a piece of paper with the usual phrases about peace and coexistence .
in 1989 , east german troops joined their fellow citizens in protest that brought down the wall of the berlin . but in china , the protesters in beijing were crushed by soldiers from the interior of the mongolia , who did not understand mandarin , and they did not have the sympathy for the inhabitants of the city . while military units or riot troops are too disrespected by recent police and military reforms , they can take part in bloody bloody clampdown , special operations from the provinces , and they have been employed by veterans of the chechenhouse war , they might be able to satisfy the excitement of being held by the fat cats . the officers of the poorer regions are also grateful for the increase in salary , which putin 's united russian party announced with a great deal of fanfare shortly before the recent election . but while some parts of the security apparatus could support the initial crackdown , it would be difficult to maintain violence .
but it would also be a disaster , not a procedure , but a procedure . the 1992 crisis has shown that the existing system is unstable , and that it is not in control of the system . if we had n't moved to the euro , europe would have set up a more devastating crisis . that 's why europe 's leaders have taken the necessary steps they have done . if banks do not recapitalize , and government bonds will be purchased , it would also be a disaster .
of course , we claim that democracy knows everything . but its diplomatic cognitive dissonance - criticizing egyptian regime , while continuing to supply it with military hardware - can only threaten bilateral relations , as well as the american approach to the musharraf regime , which has completely eroded the relations between us and the pakistani . moreover , the consequences of such foreign-policy waffling are far beyond the middle east . when obama first visited japan as president in november 2009 , he emphasized that he was from korea and was proud to be the first president of the pacific . two years later , the secretary-general of the state hill clinton published " america 's pacional century , " which marked a shift in the global strategy of america .
mr bush 's international credibility should be underlined that he does not suffer from the war , but he will continue to control iraq 's secret military effort . to give their praise more credit , they should no doubt leave the point where the war will only be the only option for america . but they should also stress that the war is not the only one , and certainly not the " serious consequence " of iraq 's failure . of course , some of the allies of america are better suited than others to get these points across the audience to the atlantic . unfortunately , the german government , by its conduct in chancellor schroeder 's campaign for re-election last septum , has maneuvered itself in order to have no authority in this matter .
small family farmers in africa - already burdened with soil degradation , climate change , and competition for resources driven by the growing population - face even more challenging bureaucratic obstacles : there is no document to prove that the land they call home is theirs . the farmers " planning horizons will shrink , and they will not be able to control their farms for the next season . instead of investing in terraced fields , planting trees and buying high-quality fertilizer , farmers from africa are seeking to maximize short-term profits . this is especially true for women , who face a growing thicket of discriminatory land laws and customs . studies show that poverty can not be reduced , improved nutrition , and other key objectives of development , without strengthening the rights of the country , especially for women .
i think bacteria would be better off in a decade , under neo-liberal policies . but this does n't look like a german electorate wants , and this will make the skin of german politics four years old . in addition to all this , the euro is in the north of europe 's discontent with central bankers , especially with the euro . it is not that the end of the monetary union is on the agenda ; it is only that people have begun to think about the possible future of a weak probability in which the end of the agenda could be put into place . that 's enough to shake the price of assets around the world , but i 'm not sure .
of course , his organizers are willing to describe it as a party of the sunni . rather , it is described as a national party that calls for people to be involved . this vision is highly attractive to those who want to see less sectarian-based politics in iraq . but there are few people inside iraq - sunni or shia - who do not see iraq as a party dedicated to restoring the sun 's leadership . the outcome of the election in 2010 gave iraq 91 parliamentary seats , two more than the second finisher , the state of the coalition of law .
but many of them are " zombies , " too many branches , too few deposits , and financial costs that are much higher than those of their successful partners . according to the international monetary fund , about one-third of the eurozone 's banking sector , which represents assets of $ 8.5 billion , is still weak and can not generate sustainable profits . all of this threatens to reduce the economy for eu , and ultimately the entire european political experiment . the recovery of stability in the european banking system by its own estimates of the imf will require at least one-third of the euro 's banks to close or merge . for deutsche bank , speculators are already expecting a merger , such as in the case of another german institution .
in particular , they should be careful not to bubble real estate , since the real estate is a large share of the total wealth and key source of the collateral in the form of a financial instrument . but a significant increase in low-quality lending should also be a problem for the public . this will not be easy for governments , regulators or central banks , but for all of this . monetary tightening may slow growth temporarily ; it is difficult to prevent bubbles from being developed , and structural reforms needed to ensure that the transition from debt-driven growth is hardly popular . today 's febrile political environment will certainly not simplify the issue of the situation .
it might be a good idea to prepare a mechanism that would determine how debt can be cut . many economists have argued about this case based on calculations of the numbers of the numbers . but the european central bank , in particular , by members of the board of directors , lorenzo bini smaghi , elegantly described the case against debt reduction - a politically important and deeply moral case . indeed , the principle of non-renewing public debt is closely linked to the development of legal security , the representative government and modern democracy . as a result of a glorious 1688 revolution , when britain turned against the flourishing studios of the british government , it was a new approach to debt .
some conservative republicans have objected to the next meeting , a friend of the carnegie mellon university , who has been good at the university , and dared to suggest that the new approach to monetary policy ( negative interest rates ) is needed to face a serious recession or financial crisis . and although the meal will almost certainly be accepted by this advice ( i also published on the issue ) , the nomination of a good friend has barely survived the senate banking committee . but the senate gave up what he wanted , and many republicans would have accepted the disruptor - for example , a student of ron " end of the race " paul - or another conservative preaching the return of the pre-world war 's gold standard . unfortunately , the battle for independence of the food is far from over the past . trump may be drying up his dust until he 's really gon na have a real conflict .
but there are still many challenges : there are nearly 300 million people in poverty , spreading the naxalite insurgency , the danger of terrorist attacks , ala mumbai , and vast urban slums . moreover , how will it be possible to balance the trade between pro-market and poor policies ? how will he manage the growing expectations of a middle-class class improvement in infrastructure , an expanded access to health care and education , uninterrupted supply of electricity and water , and more efficient transport facilities ? these problems will not be solved overnight , and they will not be able to solve them . but the growing belief that tomorrow will be better will keep india 's polity stable .
empirically , few companies have rightly understood : america 's national radio and bc have recently been hacked into the sea , while the mobile and burger king of mcdonald have recently compromised their twitter accounts . the spread of security lapses means that people are more likely to shrug than throw the first stone into a society that has been breached . finally , it is unlikely that the ap will face financial penalties for such a mistake . the loss of a lawsuit resulting from a string of feet would have to be faced with almost insurmountable obstacles . since few mechanisms can prevent the spread of tweets , and given the strong response that successful hackers can expect , the twitter will remain a vicious hoaxes , even if technological barriers are more challenging .
the detection means that the extreme event is part of the usual weather fluctuations or symptoms of further long-term change . attribution means the ability to assign a possible cause of human activity or other factors . the new scientific knowledge of detection and attribution is exacerbating our knowledge - and it also gives us more reasons to worry . in several studies in recent years , scientists have shown that , in the long term , climate change can be detected in the growing frequency of extreme events - such as heat waves , heavy rains , serious drought , and strong storms . scientists use climate models with the highest edge , not only detect long-term climate change , but also provide at least some extreme human causes .
the mutual evaluation process for which the g-20 countries have agreed is a key part of the rebalancing programme , since it will be determined , evaluated and assembled , to identify the various parts of the cooperative strategy for growth . if it works , it will be a commitment from the g-20 countries to implement policies that are beneficial to the world - if others keep their commitments . we can reduce the deficit faster than the deficit in the case of non-cooperative countries , but only if countries seeking to reduce their surplus savings . the rebalancing is not the only necessary cooperative activity in the area of cooperation . the international system of exchange rate rates is at least partially broken down by the system .
given the power of major tech companies to stifle competition , the reverse of these trends will require intervention from the government . and , indeed , the taming of large tech has become a major issue before the presidential election in the united states in 2020 . senators bernie sanders and elizabeth corridor - i think the two strongest candidates who want to vote for the democratic party to challenge president donald trump - called for the destruction of major tech companies . but the proposed solutions , including legal scholars such as iina khan , tend to focus more on the better use of anti-trust laws . this approach is unlikely to work , as markets have changed dramatically since the creation of anti-trust laws .
during all my visits to the field , i was amazed at how these efforts affect women 's lives . on the last trip , i met a rasmata , a young mother who told me that , thanks to the safety of the rescue group , she managed to keep her family out of the way , despite the migration of her husband abroad , the recent death of her father , and the drought she had suffered . she diversified her income , managed to manage her finances , and even adopted a climate-smart farming technique . the best part was that she was a " hard-working , respectful , strict and ambitious woman . " they are the names that women everywhere , regardless of their financial situation or education , deserve to be judged by themselves .
if you 're a cautious and cautious investor , think about it for a second . the value of stocks in fossil fuels , which is based on the assumption that companies can extract and burn all known reserves , will fall . it turns out that investing in these companies is extremely risky , and that 's why we 're trying to get to the point . as anyone who receives an investment statement knows , " the past performance is not a guarantee of future performance . " this reality means another compelling case of divestment , which is why it is not possible to sell .
only in the late 1970 " s and 1980 " s , it was clear that the soviet system could not compete with capitalism . after the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 , and after the subsequent soviet collapse , the g2 world gave way to a g1 + n order , in which all other countries could not compete with america as the only superpower in the world . the following quarter-century was a period of liberal liberal rulings based on multilateralism . capitalism , based on democracy and market , seemed to win in what francis fukuyama called " the end of history . " the world championed this order - the 2003 iraq war was a clear exception - and , like most countries , globalization was a great advantage , and the creation of new complex chains of value .
instead , after four years of real income , the government announced that pension reforms were not popular , which included an increase in the age of retirement . it will not be easy to address the economic complaints of russia , but it will be difficult . russia 's economy is under strict pressure as a result of sanctions imposed on the west over crimea . more importantly , russia 's state capitalist model has led to a weak competition and a reduction in incentives for private investment and business . with few options to keep public opinion , putin might well have decided that it was time to " remind russians that they were attacked .
first , member states say they want to develop a common european policy . in 1991 , they set up new institutions for this purpose , and in amsterdam , they apparently strengthened them . however , in practice , there was no detectable progress in the course of the procedure . this is a stark contrast to other aspects of the european union 's agenda . the economic and monetary union target and the only currency adopted in 1991 is a bold and revolutionary program ; some critics claim it is reckless , but the only currency will be in fact in two months .
but there will be no broad international support if military operations are considered a form of western neo-imperialism . the last point is that iraq 's problems have been at the core of the problem . the strengthening of the british and other forces in the west would not change , especially at this late stage , the basic perception of this intervention , even in the arab world , and beyond . only explicit and upward approval of the reformed un security board may provide legitimacy and international support for military action , except for clear self-defense . this is true for actions taken by individual states , temporary alliances or permanent alliances , such as the nato .
this regional reunification does not necessarily need to be anti-western , but it will certainly be if the israel and / or the united states attack militarily . meanwhile , the civil war is raging in syria , accompanied by a humanitarian disaster . to be sure , president bashar al-assad 's regime will not survive , but he will be determined to fight until the end . the balkanization of syria between different ethnic and religious groups in the country is clearly predictable . indeed , the scenario of bosnia-type can not be excluded , while the prospect of a syrian government 's loss of control over chemical weapons threatens to immediately threaten the intervention of turkey , israel or us .
in the news rooms from the bia to south africa , funding is growing . unfortunately , even if the windfall could be more planned for the air , it would only deepen the industry 's suffering . governments have played a major role in the domestic media for decades , using the rules for the application of frequencies and licensing requirements to create a market . but governments have also increased the influence of the budget in recent years . today , the allocation of public budget is one of the main sources of revenue from the media .
the next big step was the concept of humanitarian intervention after genocide in rwanda and balkkan wars in the 1990 " s. thus , international law has recognized the " right of protection " against the government 's arbitrariness and crimes of states against their own people , although enforcement is not yet clear . the same development of politics and international law has finally led to the creation of an international court . with its establishment , which is due to a long and terrible experience , the basic concept of modernity - that the power of states and their rulers should be governed by higher law , thus giving rise to the right of individuals to state sovereignty - has taken a significant step forward . this development was anything other than an accident , but it was n't a coincidence .
axelrod held tournaments among the main theorists and political scientists to find the most effective approach in repeated games of prisoners ' dilemma . the winner - the most likely strategy of a cooperative - was anatol rapoport 's tit-for tat . according to the approach , bilateral games should begin to cooperate : if the other players behave in a cooperative manner , you should . only if other players ' defects - that is , they begin to show non-cooperative behavior - if you do the same . of course , when the other players cooperate , it might be tempting to make mistakes , so that you increase your own salary , and you can even secure a windfall .
as for the threat of right , everyone who hopes to keep peace in the country and reduce tensions between religious communities is relieved by the defeat of the nationalist bharatiya janata party . the bjp 's strategy of painting congress as soft as terror and demonizing muslim as a threat to india is a bad shot . unfortunately , the economic trajectory of congress , which is planning , although growth may well be improved in the short term , is ultimately at the same time in terms of equity and sustainability . despite rhetoric about " inclusive growth , " the gap in wealth in india has widened in extremely rapid economic growth . most of the malnourished children in the world live in india , and they are not in the world .
but it is clear that , even in the 1970 " s , there were not enough empirical evidence to support the idea of the friedman to justify their growing dominance . and , indeed , it is not possible to deny that the treatment of friedman was not adequately answered by the big recession - and it strongly suggests that , if the treatment had been tried in a large depression , it would have fallen as short as possible . the dominance of friedman 's ideas at the start of a great recession is less than evidence of their support than that of economic science , which is often tainted by politics . in this case , contamination was so bad that policymakers did not want to go beyond the fridge and apply policy to keynesian and minskyite so much that they could solve the problems that the big recession had caused . admitting that monetarist treatment is inadequate would require mainstream economists to swim against the neoliberal currents of our age .
the european union 's union has been in chaos since the global financial crisis began in september 2008 . on the one hand , the euro protected the eurozone , especially the germany export economy , from speculative attacks and chaos in currency fluctuations . on the other hand , the second phase of the crisis was mercilessly exposed to the euro 's heel : the eurozone 's economic and financial unification was lacking . the growing tension in the eu eu eu area was an inevitable result , and the result was the same . germany 's actions during the crisis have clearly been contradictory in the course of the crisis .
after all , the oppressive nature of the khartoum regime is the basis of many conflicts that have divided the country . if the government in khartoum is continuing to support the reform process and derail the referendum on self-determination promised for the south of january 2011 , the return to a full-scale civil war , which has disastrous consequences for the people of sudan and the entire region , is a real possibility . the commitment of sudan 's government to the cpa has always been strong . indeed , since 2005 , the civil war has often had to face militias who act as government proxies . moreover , the forces of the sudanese security forces are still holding the arab tribes , which are on the north-south border , and are about to destabilize the most southerly south .
( the production of hydroelectric power does not produce co2 , but only a few other places in the world where it can be expanded without significant environmental and social costs . ) the second solution is to capture co2 emissions for storage underground , which are not enough . but this technology , called capturing carbon and sequestration , is not yet proven in a large scale . one approach is to capture coal and gas . another is to capture it directly from the air , using specially designed chemical processes .
in the financial crisis , governments must take the role of monitoring and regulating the salary of financial firms , otherwise , it would be possible to easily recover the perverse incentives that contributed to the current crisis . it is important to distinguish between two sources of concern about the payment of financial firms . one of the concerns is raised in terms of shareholders " views on the issue . the figures recently released by the attorney-general of new york and rew cuomo indicate that nine large financial firms have paid their employees a total amount of more than $ 600 billion in 2003-2008 - a period in which their total capitalization of the market has declined significantly . these models may raise concerns about shareholders that pay structures that are not well designed to serve their interests .
such produced even-handedness is associated with " false news . " it is time to call a spade : the republicans are extremely responsible . consider the issue of " bump stocks , " the gun adjustment , which the perpetrator of the massacre at las vegas was able to shoot faster . some republicans have now praised the fact that they will support the ban on the device . but when democratic senator diane feinstein proposed a similar ban in 2013 , republicans strongly opposed her .
this share fell by 22 % by 2000 , and by 2010 , it was 11 % , with a total of 3 % of the population being rewritten . today 's chili is completely different from the ile of the last 20 years . 29 % of the population , which has left poverty behind , are now a middle-class class that has new ambitions and objectives . as a result , demand for more opportunities and better living conditions has increased . children are seeking adequate housing , access to better health services , a safer environment and access to higher education .
clinton is the only person who has ever started her campaign twice , and he 's not the only one who knows about it . ( the first attempt at iowa , where she spoke to eight people at closed meetings , did not work very well . ) this remarkable , intelligent woman does n't feel anything for politics that is required at the highest level . success in presidential politics requires great intuition , quick progress , and above all , a compelling reason for the process . clinton offers a lot of programs to push as president , but to borrow from churchill , she does n't have a problem with pudding .
only a year ago , at an annual meeting in washington , senior officials told anyone who would listen to the euro 's panic of debt as a tempest in teapot . using slick presentations with power points such as " default in today 's advanced economies : unnecessary , undesirable , and improbable , " the fund tried to convince investors that eurozone debt was solid as a rock . even for the greenback , the imf claimed that debt dynamics were not a serious concern , thanks to the expected growth and reforms . it is not clear from the logic of the fund , namely that countries such as greenery and portugal face political and implementation of the budget are more likely to be more likely to be emerging markets than to truly advanced economies such as germs and united states . as the situation worsened , it would be possible to assume that the imf would mark its belief in the market and adopt a more cautious tone .
another alternative , supported by a large and growing body of research into economics and psychology , is a direct measure of wellbeing and happiness . surveys of the reported level of wellbeing are now available to many countries , and the idea of reducing the chase is that the metric of prosperity is highly supported . but this option has several shortcomings , including indicators of wellbeing change in time . for example , surveys of happiness in rich countries show a score of six or seven points in 0 to 10 . one way to ensure that these indicators are more direct in terms of policy is to monitor how people use their time and to attach appropriate measures to each other .
if it 's a metric , then , despite her achievements , cherism has been a failure . the shift to finance , which this cher supported , increased inequality , and the economy was more volatile . her policy of " right to buy " triggered a spiral of house prices that encouraged households to keep their debts . the " big bang " of 1986 , which was cancelled by financial services , made risky behaviour in the city . these reforms have sobbed the seeds of the 2008 financial crisis , which has been the subject of the 2008 crisis .
yes , the imf has a remarkable analytical advantage because of its talented and dedicated staff , and its unique relationship with the country . yes , it has made significant progress in improving the understanding of the relationship between financial markets and the real economy . and , yes , it has taken place bravely in shining more light on the economic impact of inequality between men and men and climate change . but its future analysis has often shown that it is looking back , and its quantitative forecasts have consistently been subject to significant changes . worse , the policy recommendations of the fund - especially those concerning advanced economies - have little impact ( politely ) .
this is especially necessary , since women 's situation is one of the main criteria for assessing the world of arab in the external world , especially in the west . and unfortunately , these assessments tend to focus on the supposed immobilization , which is derived from the islamic standards that obscure the knowledge of real changes that occur . indeed , the prevailing view of the arab society is often stifling the ability of foreigners to extricate themselves from the belief that the island limits all women to the same extent , even if they actually experience very different conditions . this prevents many people from seeing , much less assessing , deep changes in the arab society - and how women are pushing for these changes . the west is risking getting rid of the key to today 's understanding of the ab world , and that will be tomorrow .
in the lonely crowd , american sociologist david riesman identified three broad cultural types : tradition-focused cultures that look at inherited rituals , morals and values for leadership , and culture directed by the people , in which people behave according to their own values , and other cultures that respond largely to external norms and mutual influences . today 's framework has a great resonance in the world of arab , where the growing literacy rate and rapid development of communication technologies has created a strom of competing cultural narratives , and three types of rival rival races in the region 's future . ironically , it is a combination of higher literacy and modern technology that fanfies the flames of conflict between two types of reformers - religious revival and modernizers with western focus . they are using their ability to produce mass and immediately spread ancient religious texts and literature from the west , both camps are fought for the heart and minds of other traditional societies . however , according to the lebanese publisher , the samar abou-zeid is among the most rewritten works of literature in the world of arabababou-zeid .
until recently , there was no reason to ask such a question , and i did n't know why . china 's economy grew by an astonishing average annual rate of 10 % , or more than 3 decades . china has overtaken japan as the second largest economy in the world , and has been able to control it . hundreds of millions of chinese have entered the middle class , and they have n't been able to get a chance . china 's model of authoritarian efficiency seems attractive to many other developing countries , especially after the global financial crisis in 2008 , which began in the united states , and thus seemed to be discredited by liberal capitalism in the us .
then we established a regular trade relationship with china and refused to sign a government manipulator . the reason why this story is wrong is that it 's easy to tell you . there are good reasons why we have adopted policies that have encouraged poor countries to grow rapidly through industrial development with export control . in helping mexico , china and other developing countries , we are becoming richer trading partners . moreover , it is clear that national security will be improved if the school children around the world in 50 years learn how america helped their country to prosper , instead of trying to keep them as poor as possible .
but it is undisputed whether the highly fragmented digitised digital payment sector will help customers more than businesses that offer payment solutions . there is one more big problem with arguments for a society without a coffin : most people , at least in the eurozone , do n't want it . according to the european-free survey of 65,000 eurozone residents , nearly 80 % of all transactions are carried out in cash , and more than half of the payments are made in cash . as in the case of euro , differences between member states are often pronounced : the share of cash transactions is 42 % in the area of cash to 92 % in the area of the country . but overall , the public 's commitment to cash remains strong - and is becoming stronger .
tel aviv - the crisis in the sinai peninsula seems to be a little overblown by the drama of the sunday in cairo . but the egyptian president , who was mohamed by the morsi coup , dismissed general mohamed hussein tantawi , the commander of the highest military command , did not diminish the importance of the problem . jihadi terrorists attacked the eegyptian military base in sinai and killed 16 egyptian soldiers . then they took two armored personnel carriers and hurried to the border with the island . one vehicle did not cross the border , the other penetrated the island 's territory before stopping the defense forces .
but as countries that rely largely on active diplomatic and weak power , they have everything to lose in the long and escalating conflict of geopolitical politics , which would be under pressure to choose sides . in order to protect their interests , they must ensure that global trade is subject to objective mechanisms for dealing with disputes . the commitment to multilateralism is not a confirmation of the status quo . cptpp and ceta member state that the global trade system has problems , including incomplete or outdated rules that do not take into account problems such as subsidies for soes . but they also know that bilateralism - small countries seeking to negotiate with superpowers - is not an option .
the assessment of progress in these indicators is to complement the reporting mechanism under the leadership of the government . finally , some of the african " sdg 16 " champions make the target of national planning , budget and reporting . in kenya , all public officials in the 16-member ministries , departments and agencies are required to sign up to the central government 's performance contracts , in which they determine the objectives and indicators relevant to their mandate , and explain how they are incorporated into the policy plans and development plans . the ghana and benin , meanwhile , point to budgetary expenditure , which has a high impact on the impact of 16 , and the ghana government also publicly discloses how close financial priorities are in line with the commitments set out in this objective . in addition , some countries have found innovative ways to ensure that governments use new national data to 16 in their day-to-day decision-making .
at a global level , it is difficult to argue that inequality is one of the main political problems in the world . it is difficult to imagine alternative policy arrangements or economic policies in the last 50 years , which would transfer much of the wealth of rich nations to poor countries . i can easily imagine alternatives such as communist victories in post-world war ii elections in italy and in france , which would now have impoverished nations in the north . i can also imagine alternatives that would enriched poor nations : a deng xiaoping would be the leader of china in 1956 , rather than 1976 . but the alternatives that would make the south richer at the cost of reducing the wealth of northern regions would require a wholesale revolution in psychology .
repayment on griesa 's terms would have devastate argentina 's economy . the capital of nml and other vultures is only 1 % of creditors , but it will receive a total of 1.5 billion . the total amount of creditors would be $ 15 billion . and since the restructuring of debt has established that all creditors who have accepted it can demand the same conditions as those in the holdouts , it may be possible that the debt will be paid for by 140 billion . each argentine would thus owe more than $ 3,500 - more than one-third of the average annual income per capita .
it will be essential to take into account the following stages of wto and its role in the international trade system . the biggest international financial institutions - international monetary funds , world banks , european banks for reconstruction and development and regional development banks - must be difficult to get into the twenty-first century . the authority of the united states has been frayed , and the united states has not yet taken advantage of it . until we reverse the trend of declining multilateralism , the ability of governments to respond to global challenges will not improve . business can moan and the media can cut , but the answer to many of the world 's biggest problems is more - or better - government .
economists and moralists believe you should spend less than you earn - to save for proverbial rainy days or old age . getting into debt has been associated with profligacy or lack of interest for a long time . and if a person is to be indebted , it is an honor to repay the obligation to repay the debt due to the sale of assets , to reduce consumption , to work harder or to some of the three combined . indeed , it was more than a matter of honor : the debtor was in prison on time to repay the debt . the same approach was governed by the institutional debt , which is why it is not possible to accept it .
in 1989 , the emblematic defeat of marxism allowed asian countries , including china and india , to pursue a more sophisticated policy of capitalists . although china 's economic renaissance has already begun to act under the influence of deng xiaoping , the chinese communist party , after 1989 , has been able to subordinate ideology to wealth creation . this example had constructive influence on the surviving communist parties in asia and beyond . geopolitical , the increase in post-1989 , which was spread far beyond the west . the sudden collapse of the soviet union was a strategic boost to asia , and the destruction of a menacing empire , and the opening of china 's path , which quickly began to pursue its interests around the world .
similarly , the taliban have not condemned the adoption of terrorist tactics in afghanistan , the boko haram in nigeria and al-shabaab in somalia , and the destruction of the sufi shrines in mali by the ansar dine , the radical islamist sect , the muslim leaders have remained largely silent . although none of these groups is a majority of views , they have a significant influence , and they do not seem to believe they act in the interests of most . developments in the wake of the arab spring could indicate the prospects for tolerance for religion . in egypt , with 10 % of the orthodox christians minority , the muslim brothers ' muslim brothers won the presidency in a free and fair election , and then morsi resigned from the party and said it would allow him to represent all egyptians more effectively , and promised to respect the minority 's rights . but subsequent actions , designed to give him unprecedented executive power , raise concerns about these first positive steps .
this group will unite with democratization at home and abroad , and create a truly democratic system . fourth , the reverse sentence for the fourth of july is a historical inevitability , and most chinese people want it . the fourth is weighing on the spirits of all chinese patriots , and almost every chinese man knows that official reassessment is just a matter of time . indeed , the party 's leading leadership has been divided into events since it happened . today , many of the people responsible for the decision to withdraw - especially deng xiaoping and others of the party 's older - died .
mattarella 's opponents claim he has overcome his authority and has allowed financial markets to veto the minister 's choice of the elected government . by joining the euro , it gave rise to monetary sovereignty to an independent decision-making body , a central bank of europe . it also undertook specific commitments in the area of fiscal policy , although these restrictions are not as difficult as those of monetary policy . these commitments are in fact limited to the choice of macroeconomic policy by the italian authorities . in particular , the absence of a national currency means that the italian currency can not choose its own inflation target or to devalue its currency against foreign currency .
we can see again how bad western national priorities can be destroyed by a non-western nation . in any case of ideas , extreme wins over moderate ones , and that 's what it means . extremist extremist in pakistan now wears an islamic garment and stands for creator , faith and theocratic order . what , by contrast , would a pakistani liberal stance be called liberal democratic countries ? in the dark , crowded alleyways of the coastline , karachi , peshawar , or quetta , the desire for democratic liberalism is not for the believers to be united for the only true faith .
there are strong reasons to believe they should be able to do so . the japan has a relatively strict law that protects the animal 's welfare . for example , most mammals must be slaughtered by a method that minimises their pain and suffering as much as possible . these laws are similar to the regulations that most slaughterhouses in the industrial world have taken , which require stunned animals to be unconscious by gas and are not sensitive to pain - when they cut their throats and " bled out . " of course , there are circumstances in which stunning stunning fails , and animals are killed in full awareness , but when stunning works properly , it reduces the suffering of animals .
the cambridge - critics of the donald trump have consistently underestimated his political skills in communicating with the people , perhaps because he is so different from those of his predecessors , such as fanklin d. in the end , both fdr and reagan were known as " great communicators . " although the large parts of the american population hated them , fdr and reagan addressed americans as a whole , and they tried to call for their center . by contrast , trump appealed primarily to a minority that had chosen him . his inaugural speech sounded like a speech in the campaign , and after he took office , a series of false declarations and provocative orders of the executive officer underscored his credibility in the center , but he reinforced it with his base .
the importance of price stability is the progress of a modern independent central bank , which has significantly reduced inflation worldwide . yes , there are still three times higher prices in some places , such as venezuela , but they are now a rarity . it is highly likely that , instead of joining the euro , italy and spain would simply give their central banks greater autonomy , and today they would have low inflation . but given that many poor countries have managed to maintain inflation in a single digit , it is possible to assume that the ece would be able to do it . if south european countries kept their own currencies , they would never be able to dig up a debt hole , and they would have had a partial default in inflation .
cohn 's sin was to be publicly known that he had nearly resigned last month in charlottesville , when trump was in charge of white protesters and neo-nazi , many armed , and others who stood up against them . in fact , you can sympathize with the president with an aide who wants to have both of them , as cohn did - to let his apparent suffering be known without acting on them . but when the president chooses to ignore his main economic adviser , there may be problems . cohn was considered one of the most moderate voices of the government , and janet yellen wanted to succeed as chairman of the federal reserve . speculation about the possibility of a " new ump " has reached its peak in the early septum , when the president has suddenly made a deal with the democratic leaders of congress .
but the risks are as real as possible , and they have a potential reward . the resources industry is a permanent source of corruption , conflict and degradation of the population . mineral and hydrocarbon deposits are often found in less developed countries , which are exposed to pre-existing restrictions on governance , political instability and major challenges in developing and environmental protection . transparency - full disclosure of all contracts for the management of revenue and environmental commitments - is crucial to the economic potential of the sector and to avoid conflicts and their collapse . on may 17 , the advocacy organization oxfam america sued the securities and commission to issue a final rule for the implementation of section 1504 of the 2010 dodd-frank wall reform and the protection of consumers .
the link to west africa is close and is continuing over the last century , with nearly 50,000 indians or indians from india . indeed , there are many people flying among the accra , the lagos , the city of freezers , monrovia , or abidjan , and the new delhi , the mumbai , the calcutta , or the chennai daily , and they pass through the middle east or europe . while the controls are carried out in all international airports in the affected regions , the incubation period ( which averages the current disease for eight days , but it may be up to 21 days ) , means that anyone who has no symptoms of recent infections could go to india without warning . recent personal experience at the new airport in delhi has shown that the official arrival checks , as required by the government , have been performed freely , and several passengers have been leaving the terminal holding the completed ebola information card , which should have been handed to the immigration authorities . it seems unlikely that india 's government will be able to keep tabs on all flights from west africa .
the british prime minister david cameron 's government announced that some draconian public sector had cut all developed countries ' governments . indeed , his education minister recently declared that the funding for british universities would be cut by up to 40 % . but the most shocking aspect of the move is that the arts and humanities will be more focused on the industry than science and engineering , which is probably better for business . the war against art and humanities is nothing new - though this time , the fight was first migrated directly to britain . ronald reagan pioneered a wave of politics and propaganda in the united states in the 1980 " s , which demonstrated the national subsidy for art .
when i was on the march in 2010 , i visited tripoli for a conference of " national reconciliation , " the conflicting declarations of al-islam and security officials surprised me . the head of the internal security forces , colonel al-tuhami , was arrested , another main suspect in the crime currently committed against the libyans , refused to call it " reconciliation . " for him , it was " a penance from heresy , " and he was a heresy . given the recent wave of insurgency , it is more evident that any " reform " initiatives that were previously carried out in the ab world were only aimed at maintaining oppressive dictatorships and escaping punishment for abuse of power . reform of " debate " within these schemes was a struggle between different parts of the security apparatus in the best way to preserve the present state .
if credit is growing too quickly , the amount of the feed may increase the interest rate paid by the deposit . a sufficiently high rate will lead commercial banks to prioritise the combination of liquidity , security and return on the increase in private lending . that 's , in any case , a theory ; no one knows how it works . how high would a fed or ecb have to raise interest in deposits to prevent excessive bank lending growth ? what if the interest rate is 4 % or 6 % ?
policymakers at nanotechnology have promised to solve this problem , and they will be able to solve it . they asked the g-20 to create a set of indicators that would signal when any country , including china , was in danger of a crisis . they called for the process to ensure that , when the warning lights are yellow , the relevant country will have to correct its policy . unfortunately , these warning indicators are better reflected in the last crisis than in the next crisis . the nature of financial risk is constantly changing in ways that are difficult to predict using future indicators such as those created by g-20 .
besides , obama tried to suppress hundreds of photos showing sexual assault in prison and did n't do anything to reverse the patriot act . why should obama , a constitutional scholar , be able to follow this path ? first of all , he does n't dare look like he 's " soft on terror . " second , he might have to try the detainees in a pre-arranged environment , or even prevent them from being judged forever : the lawyers claim that torture , including sexual torture , was so endemic in the cia , and that the obama could hold dozens of prisoners whose bodies were crime scenes . according to wells , a lawyer at the centre of constitutional rights , representing some detainees , can not risk calling torture practices , so they call them " secret sources and methods , " which can not be found in court .
if the authorities - specifically federal reserves and fdies - determine that this is not possible , they have the power to force banks to change their activities , including reducing their scope and scope . but the current reality is that no megabank could go bankrupt without causing another " lehman moment " - that was the kind of global panic that resulted in the days after the failure of brothers from lafman in septum 2008 . especially experts such as hoenig , who think of cross-border bankruptcy dimensions , emphasize that it would not work for a firm as a jpmorgan hunt ( $ 3.7 billion in assets ) , a bank of american ( $ 3 trillion ) , or a citizen ( $ 2.7 billion ) . " panic is about panic , " hoenig says , " and people and nations usually protect themselves and their wealth before others . moreover , international bankruptcy law does not regulate such matters and does not prevent the acquisition of assets . "
paris - the french politics paradox has been confirmed on the march 27 . the main national front gained 11 % of the votes , but only 0.1 % of the places were secured . this difference between the popular strength of the national front and its actual representation is a permanent feature of french politics since the year when jean-marie le le 's pen was established 40 years ago . but le pen was replaced by a sea of sea daughter , no less charismatic . and with this change , the front of the front can also change .
with such technical support , the indonesia government will create an affordable and sustainable national health-care system , which will be fully funded by domestic resources by 2019 . i believe that the global fund is one of the most intelligent investments we can make - as many governments have already understood . the united states were the biggest supporter of the global fund , but many others did their part . for example , australia has provided us with $ 410 million from 2002 , which enabled nearly 200,000 people to receive treatment for their lives , 80,000 people to receive treatment , seven million people to be cured of malaria , and 14 million to be delivered to families who need to be delivered to them . the global fund has brightened hundreds of thousands of children in africa and asia - a heroic achievement that would make donor countries proud of .
new york - everyone - from elected officials and bureaucrats to voters and taxpayers - can learn from the world 's most charitable foundation about effective spending on development . and these lessons are particularly important at the time , when 56 % of the euro 's governments believe that their governments should focus exclusively on domestic issues and leave the beneficiary countries to deal with the problems as best they can ( the opposition to aid is even higher in mutual respect , potholes , italy , hungary and greenback ) . the european union 's largest circulation sunday newspaper recently launched a petition that called for an end to spending on supported aid ( for 0.7 % of national income ) . before the election , president donald trump was attacked by " sending foreign support to the countries we hate , " and he thought we should cut the idea of aid . the united states is less than 1 % of the federal budget , but the average american believes it is thirty-one times higher .
but the first victim was a long occupation , and the other was facing a top-rate oil export embargo , designed to speed up the engine 's financial leverage . as a result , america 's efforts to bring international effect to its new irish sanctions act constitute a double blow to india . first , it threatens to sabotage the diversification of energy imports from india , and it is too dependent on the islamist-bankrolling oil monarchies - including the saudi arabia , the united arabia , and the qatar - who managed to escape the arab spring . second , further isolation of iran will make it difficult for india to play a more active role in the fight against the military and seek to close the agreement with the taliban . india , one of the biggest donors in the area of afghec.europa.eu , has no adequate access to this country and must rely on an iran approach .
the main obstacle to this proposal is the requirement for approval of congress in order to increase the quota of americans . this opens the possibility that the voting power of the two of us could temporarily fall below the 15 % threshold required to veto decisions that require 85 % of the votes of the members of the group . in order to ensure support , the board of directors could not consider any draft decision requiring 85 % of the aid without the approval of the us . this guarantee could be included in a resolution that would divide the package of reforms into two parts . it will remain valid until we are able to increase the quota and recover the voting share .
but nearly six months on the north african mainland , the number of flights on the southern island of lampedusa reached about 30,000 . compared to the sixth population , asylum seekers were recruited in 2009 . italian officials in private confirm that the present figures can not be managed by the authorities . the problem for italian officials , as well as other governments involved in recent migration flows , is the pressure of the right populist parties , which is no longer needed to defend themselves . the openness , inclusion and diversity of europe 's societies is becoming increasingly difficult .
this certainly prevents long-term economic growth and causes significant structural problems , but it also means that the state is highly counter-cyclically reactive , and that the economy is largely stabilizing , which is beneficial to the world . the german state recorded a budget deficit of just 0.1 % of the gross domestic product in 2008 , according to the latest forecast forecast , by 4.5 % of the gross domestic product in 2009 . therefore , the economic stimulus provided by the german state budget will be 4.4 % of the total amount of the gross domestic product in 2009 . in the united states , the 2008 budget deficit was 5.8 % of the gross domestic product , and according to the same forecast , the gdp was 10.2 % , which is reflected in exactly the same economic stimulus as in the germany 4.4 % of the percentage of the gdp . moreover , germany has much more internal stability than we do , as it is not a problem of highly indebted households that are now limited to loans .
but catchy ideas are dying , and russia has moved to reconstruct the current concept of brics . the ossification of brics in a de facto global institution is moving dramatically forward in the jungle , when the leaders of the four countries met ( of course russia ) for the first " bric summit . " this meeting was a remarkable broadside against the united states , as each member declared his wish to release the dollar as a global currency for the reserves . a few months ago , they were moved to issue a joint agreement before the summit in april , which was held in april , and they were determined to change the rules of the global economic system . in the private sector , the bric index funds have spread , although the goldman has significantly secured his own bric bet by introducing a second term - " the next 11 , " or n-11 - to the debate .
he supported the economy of supply to white labor , convinced millions of " lower government , " which meant cutting federal programs , including education , would bring " the morning in america . " with his well-rehearsed sunny mood , reagan expertly played his role as president , but certainly with a hollywood flair . his strategic defense initiative , aimed at ending the nuclear deterrence strategy known as " mutual assured destruction , " was nicknamed " star wars . " the enduring status of reagan as a republican icon is largely related to the ability to stifle cowboy cruelty with the charm of the film star , although luck has also played a role . after all , the victory in the cold war was largely supported by mikhail gorbachev , who , in an effort to reform the soviet union , accelerated the collapse .
the war saw - if the 1991 putsch were not broken by mikhail gorbachev , the riots and death that had recently been seen in xinjiang could be held in russia . instead of hearing about the crackdown in urumqi , the capital of xinjiang , we could read about a hundred people on the streets of almaty , and the column would compare the bloody crushing of the self-proclaimed demonstrations of the ukrainian independence in iraq last year . as with china , there would be some weak international condemnation , and there would be speculation about any link between the kazakh militants and the exile groups , or the islamic fundamentalists . experts remind us that kazakhstan has never been a country , and that the claim of independence in the country is historically dubious . replace xinjiang for kazakhstan and tibet for kraine .
so why did he throw the imf into the ball , what do you think ? the answer is clear : porcelain has been placed on a court press to change minds . in august , the currency exchange rate regime was a little loose in the currency . in london , government bonds were issued with renminbi-denominated bonds , and plans were set up to create new trading platforms for currency in several european financial centers . and chinese politicians have clearly shown how unhappy they will be if they decide otherwise .
however , the trade deficit is not a reason for the import barriers and subsidies . the real reason is that americans spend more than they do . the overall deficit of trade is due to decisions about savings and investments in households and businesses . foreign governments " policies only affect how this deficit is divided between american trading partners . the reason why us rescue decisions and investment decisions lead to a clear trade deficit is that if a country saves more of the total production than in business facilities and structures , it has an extra output to sell to the rest of the world .
many modi supporters claim that demonetization policy problems are due to incompetent implementation . but the truth is , the design of the system was , in principle , flawed . there was no " policy skeleton , " no analysis of costs and no evidence of considering alternative policy options . judging by the storm of policy tweaks , it seems clear that no impact assessment has been performed . but instead of recognizing the growing risks of a non-transparent policy environment , modi is talking about moving india to a completely " cashless society . "
washington , dc - terrorism on the scale of the witness to the paris last month is nothing new in africa . in nigeria , cameroon , chad and niger , extremist group boko haram , known for kidnapping 276 girls from school in 2014 , caused thousands of victims of suicide bombings and attacks on civilians . in kenya , the somali group al-shabaab carried out two major attacks on the westgate shopping mall in 2013 and garissa in 2015 , and many smaller acts of terror . meanwhile , in tunisia , the islamic state has been targeted by tourists - organizing attacks on the museum and the beach resort . and in mali , shortly after the attack on paris , the gunmen , who belonged to al kaeda , invaded the radisson blu hotel in bamako and killed 22 people .
that 's not true of thousands of princes who have come from here . when older generations die , a new generation will be fighting in front of their customers . indeed , the ratio of royalty to ordinary people is now reaching a thousand ( compared to one to five million in the united kingdom ) , and the challenge of managing the necessary rights , wages , and demand for employment has never been more intense . the royal perks include lifetime sinecures and domination of public service , which allows the princes to conclude contracts and receive commissions on the basis of their salary . so the saudi regime is divided , the legitimacy of the regime is questioned and the tensions between sectarian parties are growing .
london - julius nyerere , the first president of tanzania , once asked his creditors a question : " do we have to starve our children to pay their debts ? " this was 1986 before public campaigns and initiatives that removed much of the burden of debt on africa . but nyerere 's question is still hanging over somalia like a dark cloud . over the past year , the unprecedented humanitarian effort has brought somalia back from the famine . as the worst drought in memory destroyed the harvest and destroyed the cattle , nearly $ 1 billion was mobilized for nutrition , health and clean water .
the brazil and other countries that complained about " hot money " inflows and " currency wars , " they suddenly got what they wanted : a likely early end to the food qe . the consequences - sharp reversals in capital-flow , which are now hitting all risky emerging-market assets - are not quite nice . whether the correction of risky assets is temporary or the start of the bear market depends on several factors . one is whether the feed actually ends up from the qe as quickly as it 's signaled . it is highly likely that growth will weaken and lower inflation will slow down the pace of liquidity support .
berkeley - since late 2014 , we have supported the model of our governance based on the tenth amendment of our constitution , claiming that " the powers that have not been delegated to the united states by the constitution , nor are they prohibited by the states , are reserved to the states or to the people . " in the context of these constitutional rights , california is increasingly exercised by california . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur .
europe is beginning to retreat into recession , just as the recovery in the united states is finally getting stronger . but i 've taken a different conclusion from my father 's side , and i 've done it differently . i have limited the session of " new context in east asia , " which has been addressed by a panel of senior representatives from the thailand , south korea , malaysia , singapore and japan . except for the japanese participation , they all had a first-hand experience with the devastating financial crisis of the late 1990 " s. i could not resist the temptation to bring asia into a debate between europe and us .
in many decades , great scientific minds have learned to read the history of the earth to understand how climate is working . they have deployed brilliant physics , biology and instrumentation ( such as satellites reading detailed features of earth 's systems ) , so that we can understand them . and it is clear : the use of oil , coal and gas is a threat to biology and chemistry on the planet . we are creating dangerous climate and chemical changes in the ocean , causing extreme storms , drought and other risks to damage food and planet life . ipcc and climate scientists are telling us a key message , and they 're trying to get a message from them .
some advocates of integration see a united europe as a strong partner for us . others are motivated by the desire to set up a rival power center , but it seems unrealistic . some commentators have begun to point to different views on the role of international law and the use of force in dealing with disputes . since europe is militarily irrelevant , it is not surprising that europe 's diplomacy is underlined by diplomacy , not military , and it is necessary to resolve disputes . on the contrary , no one should be surprised that americans are being chafe with restrictions on their ability to use military hegemony .
moscow - the crisis in george 's last gust of wind has tested the european security system , and the system has failed to meet its main task of ensuring the common security of the continent . as a result , the euro must re-examine its existing security measures , analyse what happened , and take into account this analysis in the recovery of these measures . russia has already seen that russia must re-examine the european security mechanisms , including international and regional authorities and their functions before the crisis . we have proposed a new legally binding system of mutual security guarantees to ensure equal security throughout the european union . the european union believes russia 's initiative is well founded and has shown interest in the launch of the project .
princeton - should we meet the neo-nazis and white supremacists of violence ? the question was raised by tragic events in charlottesville , virginia , on august 12 . the white supremacists have held a gathering to protest the planned departure from the public park of the statue of robert elee , the leader of the federal army during the civil war . there was a protest , and the street fight broke out , and the fight was over . a woman with a heather heyer was killed , and 19 people were injured when james field , a white nationalist , drove his car into a crowd of protesters .
and wen has indicated that village elections may be extended to the next highest levels of government - the government of the city - for the next few years . china 's modest attempts at local elections have been supplemented by exercises in " deliberative democracy . " these are taking on the form of a technical gathering of the city hall . chinese officials hired professor james fishkin at stanford university to present a representative sample of citizens from zeguo to the assembly using a keypad polling device and manual computer to decide how the city should spend $ 6 million in public finances . zeguo exercise was considered to be a great success and was replicated elsewhere in china .
the european regulatory authorities have already introduced sophisticated monitoring and surveillance programs , blocking access to the market to countries that have recorded illegal fishing , penalised euro operators , and have helped support for " yellow or red " countries to reform their fisheries legislation . instead , the japan and the two of us would be even more effective if they had agreed to prevent criminals from accessing their markets and allowed legitimate operators to benefit from the " overloaded " approach . cooperation could enable the use of modern and affordable technologies for the traceability of seafood - data and gathering of intelligence , which would accurately determine the place of the sea food comes from , and when and when they caught it . such efforts - such as electronic documentation for tuna fishing in tuna fishing - represent one of the most effective tools for the elimination of illegal fishing . the removal of unscrupulous fishing will help to replenish the life of the sea and secure the lives of billions of people .
but the poor city , facing bad housing , limited infrastructure and eager services , is vulnerable to disease , malnutrition , disease , hivity , and aids , malaria , tuberculosis , and mental disorders . it is also likely that natural disasters will be most difficult , such as floods and mudslides that have destroyed parts of the city of janeiro in januiro . the second general feature of emerging cities in the market is that the strong concentration of poverty is helping to create a fragile environment that causes death and injuries to the population . but the recent symposium at the university of oxford has concluded that emerging cities can improve and maintain the city 's health by taking advantage of the benefits of concentration , coordination of health policy and health programs , and the adoption of successful innovation , improving education and education , and the development of better planning processes . many of the possible solutions are based on the opportunities for innovation , which have been created by physical concentration of people and economic activities .
the june 2001 court decided to set a deadline for the trial , which enabled the evidence to be presented to those individuals . the actions of the courts represent the first attempt of guatemala to bring a high military officer to trial . unfortunately , the trial was postponed indefinitely , as lawyers appealed against the case . our successes in my work are remarkable , but it turned out that the police investigator was murdered , the judge was threatened , and witnesses fled to exile . i have been harassed and campaigns have been made to discredit me for organizing .
the right thing is to proponents of geotech : we are facing an emergency climate that requires radical and urgent action . the intergovernmental climate change panel ( ipcc ) has clearly demonstrated in the ococtane 2018 and has reinforced the report on climate change and land . some major economies - including canada , ireland , united kingdom - and regions and cities - have officially recognized the extent of the crisis . the question is whether this will translate into a commitment to take the necessary measures . this certainly did n't happen last year 's climate change conference in katowice , the country .
meanwhile , germany , europe 's most important and cultural relations with russia , are at the end of a political cycle . it is dangerous and unfair to underestimate the german chancellor anela merkel , but he is no longer able to influence or lead europe in dealing with the outside world , nor to bring europe to the world . with uk and germany , which are currently unable to play a major diplomatic role , and it is a national , national , and poland , which can not be the main players , the conclusion is simple : in part , thanks to the sheer energy and imagination of the young president , this is the moment of the party . finally , macron 's attempt to restore relations with russia is perfectly consistent with france 's tradition . the natural instinct of charles de gaulle was to mediate between different systems and look beyond the current incarnation of other countries .
democratic countries need the space to act on their own , monetary and fiscal policy . so they only considered " weak " globalization , with capital flows largely limited to long-term loans and loans . john maynard keynes , who wrote the rules and rules along with harry dexter white , did not consider capital controls as a temporary tool , but as a permanent feature of the world economy . the bretton forest regime collapsed in the 1970 " s because of the failure or lack of willingness - it is not entirely clear which - leading governments to a growing tide of capital flows . the third path , which is determined by the trilemma , is to completely eliminate the state 's sovereignty .
however , if it makes it impossible to verify traditional arms control contracts , it may be possible to set limits on certain types of civilian targets ( not on weapons ) and negotiate difficult rules for road traffic , which would limit the conflict . in any event , it will be difficult to maintain a strategic stability in cyberspace . because technological innovation is faster than in the nuclear realm , cyberwar is characterized by a growing fear of surprise . however , in time , the better attribution of forensic medicine may increase the role of punishment , and better defense of defense through encryption or machine learning may increase the role of prevention and denial . moreover , as states and organizations understand better the restrictions and uncertainties about cyber attacks , and the growing importance of internet entanglement to economic wellbeing , cost-benefit calculations can be changed .
the decision to recognise the independence of kosovo was also made only after russia made clear that the agreement proposed by the special ambassador of the secretary-general of the un , former finnish president martii ahtisaari , would be veto . even then , we agreed to discuss eu-russia for four months , so that there was no stone left in the search for mutually acceptable compromise . russia , on the other hand , moved from support to territorial integrity to break the country within three weeks , and relied entirely on the military force . russia must now ask for a relationship between short-term military victories and long-term economic prosperity . the conflict in george followed a sharp fall in investor confidence .
this strategy could also begin to close the deepening transatlantic divide that trump 's presidency has opened . the fracturing of the west is a welcome development in the eyes of russian president vincent krashenko and illiberal regimes . authoritarians and populists would like nothing more than to raise chaos and lose confidence in the postwar rules . democracies that built these values of the order are antithetical to authoritarians . finally , trump 's decision confirms that europe is too much for security and prosperity .
knowledge-based organizations are creating a broad range of contacts with the media and are an important role in influencing public opinion and diplomatic relations . many international negotiations on issues such as bio-security and environmental pollutants are beneficial to these alliances . knowledge institutions are also equipped with better means of using expanding global information infrastructure to influence diplomatic relations . modern international diplomacy is increasingly dependent on groups that make rules , regulations , and collect technical data . in the area of the environment , new institutions are emerging , focusing on harmonising criteria and indicators , in particular on programs that confirm sustainable use of resources , such as forests and fisheries .
in this month 's election , populist parties did not show much about this month , where the party to the anti-immigration league and the five anti-establishment movement of five stars together secured about 50 % of the vote . even bacteria have fallen victim to populist forces in some way . of course , the new coalition government , which includes chancellor anela merkel 's democratic union , her bavarian party , the christian social union and the social party , were formed . but the parties agreed for more than five months , and the biggest opposition party is now the right option for germany . in a country that seemed to be vaccinated against populism by its nazi history , this is a particularly difficult development .
restrictions and ambiguities are also constantly spreading institutional arrangements that are needed to cover political reforms and electoral reforms . the re-election is only allowed for candidates who were initially selected by the same party , and for the legislation to be adopted for independent candidates , for the initiative to vote , and for the referendums , the referendums are unclear . the government seems to be following a commitment to allow binding references to the opening of oil and other issues of transcendent . this reluctance is understandable , as voters are evenly divided into this matter , and no one will invest in the oil and gas of mexico , if the constitutional amendment of pemex may be reversed in 2015 , since the objections will be raised . but curating democracy to modernize the energy sector is not a good idea .
regardless of the form , several years ago , she began to receive several heavy wounds ( similar to the crisis that struck the target of exchange-rate values in the 1990 " s ) . perhaps the biggest failure in septum 2008 , when it became clear that the central banks , who relied on it , did not pay enough attention to bubbles in asset-price . central bankers have said they have paid all attention to the asset market , and they have indicated that housing prices and equity prices can be taken into account if they have indicated information about inflation in goods . but this escape clause proved insufficient : when the global financial crisis struck ( which , at the very least , suggests that monetary policy was too loose in 2002-2006 ) , there was no prior or subsequent increase in inflation . that the boom-bust cycle could occur without inflation , it should not be a surprise .
employers can avoid a mandate by reducing the number of workers " working week to less than 30 hours ( which is defined by the law as a full-time job ) . but even for full-time workers , businesses can choose to pay relatively small amounts rather than insurance . this fine is $ 2,000 per employee , much less than the current average premium for the family policy provided by the employee . the fact that the undertaking does not provide insurance and the amount of the fine is particularly attractive if its employees have a pension which is entitled to government subsidies ( which is currently available to those who have less than four times the amount of income in poverty ) . the smart employer may , instead of paying the premium for approved insurance , pay the fine for the non-payment of insurance and increase the salary of employees in a sufficient amount , so that it can obtain more cash after the acquisition of subsidized insurance .
the two cabinet ministers who have resigned from the affair , the robin chef and the clare , want revenge , and continue to attack blair for his " lies . " so far , blair has proven herself to be able to withstand such charges . indeed , he continued the counter-attack , especially against the bbk , which did not support the war with enthusiasm . but is the uncertainty that revolves around blair like vulture now feel the taste of a lie ? or is it more about a prime minister losing confidence in his people , including his former friends and allies ?
america has been increasingly obsessed with the prospect of its own citizens and practices in international surveillance , which has contributed to the general erosion of the system of human rights monitoring . it adamantly contradicts several important and promising new initiatives in the area of human rights , in particular international criminal law , and a new anti-torture mechanism . in the context of the anti-torture protocol , we have tried to derail the creation of a universal system of visits to the site of detention under the optional protocol of the convention on torture . america has found itself in a relationship with some strange people who normally buy it as chronic human rights violators - cuba , china , china , ireland , and libya , sudan or winter babwe . but without our support , the initiative was largely supported by the united nations economic and social council at the end of the day .
nor will it be enough to recall the historical benefits of engagement and britain 's famous centuries-old role , in order to ensure that no country has ever gained a single european mastery . we have to say that britain is best when he sees himself as a leader in europe . as britain once led the euro to fight fascism , to promote democratic ambitions , and to promote the continent 's response to the global crisis in 2008 , it should be in the eurozone that leads from the first ranks . the british , who always fought for freedom , tolerance and social responsibility , should be prepared to lead the progressive movement , the fight against climate change , resist protectionism , and support sustainable growth . it must lead to mobilising europe to work for people in a global economy , to protect them from injustice and injustice .
but the expectation of adequate consumer protection is based on our economy 's economy . if the company sells you a car that is not adequately tested , it will cost you a price . the same is true of virtually all other consumers , from airlines to food suppliers . the restaurant can not avoid the responsibility for serving expired food by simply posting a sign saying " customers are wary . " in addition , users are not passive consumers in terms of trading on their own data .
the implicit model is the model of " guest workers " who come and go ; in practice , a large proportion of economic immigrants from the poorer parts of europe remain in the target country , which is fueling an increase in support of the anti-immigrant parties . the asylum system is not entirely prepared to address the new generation of refugees who are not eligible for the existing framework , since they do not escape specific acts of persecution , but to disintegrate their states . they may be provided " humanitarian protection " or " leave leave for a short period of time " ; however , they can be declared illegal immigrants . so what do you want to do , what do you want to do ? the temporary residence in europe or beyond would be appropriate if the return to normal life in the country of origin of refugees was realistic .
in other words , mrs. obama is in charge of preparing herself as the first lady of the people . she studied not only jackie kennedy - a comparison of the obvious obvious features of her dress , collars , and hairstyle of the page-boy - but also triumphs and failures of the other lovely , but also underestimated stealth radical princess diana . princess di 's legacy in creating iconography , which has opened the way to huge social change , is greatly undervalued . in short life , she was often lauded by the qualities ( beauty and style ) , which were secondary to her work , and she was involved in other aspects of her character ( her emotional and chaotic personal life ) , which were the same . as a result , few people noticed how she had actually , and how she had tried to handle it .
instead , they are both busy developing a new round of stimulus that will also bring political and political risks . the other risks are already causing headaches to central bankers , but they do n't know what else . the long-term process of brexit is a barrier to the long-term strategy of the european gland , while the short-term impact on global growth in government arms arms arms is complicating the task of both feeding and ecb . some pro-growth policies , which are currently being mooted , could , if not well designed , increase the risk of financial instability , and thus complicate the task of central bankers . the idea of " people 's qe " - that is , more direct direct direct direct routing of central-bank funding to the population - is increasingly focused on both sides of the political spectrum .
he himself has overcome many offences , which the oscars have observed in 1999 . he resigned only after the election , which he received from the parliament , and he did not attend . ak zhol clearly used the allegations of impropriety as a weapon against government parties . indeed , many opposition groups have been involved in the dirty tricks of the united states . however , the election was a major step forward , and the election was still a major step away .
the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur . after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . china 's economic performance in the last four decades has been truly impressive in the past .
over the short term , it seems like a crab - two steps forward , one step back and one step away . but the long-term progress of aean is not known to be possible , and it is not possible . the gdp increased by 95 billion in 1970 to 2.5 billion in 2014 . and it is the only reliable platform for geopolitical engagement in the pacific region , which is unique in its ability to meet all the world 's great powers , from the united states and the european union to china and russia . the ascendancy is still facing serious challenges , but it is not a problem .
much of the modern economic theory and financial theory are based on the assumption that people are rational , and thus systematically maximize their own happiness , or as economists call it , " their benefits . " when samuelson took the subject into his 1947 book , he did n't look into his brain , but he relied on " revealing his preference . " the objectives of the people are only revealed by the observation of their economic activities . according to samuelson 's leadership , generations of economists have not built their research on any physical structure based on ideas and behavior , but only on the assumption of rationality . the glimmers are therefore skeptical about the prevailing economic theory and seek out a physical basis for the brain .
central-bank balance sheets have increased , and the policy rates have reached their " close to zero " limits . it seems there 's a lot of cheap water , but the horse refuses to drink . without any sign of inflation , growth is still tepid and fragile , many expect chronic slow growth , and others fear a global recession . but politicians have one more option : a shift to " cleaner " fiscal policy , in which they directly finance government spending by printing money - a so-called " drop in helicopters . " the new money would be bypassed by financial and corporate sectors and would be directly heading for the thirteenth horse : middle and lower income consumers .
the case was taken to the court , where the judge ruled it as a " random traffic disruption " and handed the driver a two-year sentence . the judge 's decision was encouraging her to be easy , as her husband was in association with the provincial officials . it quickly became a story about " rich and poor , " which was widely regarded as an example of corruption at a high level . over the next few months , the newspaper and television stations were running with stories that were beginning to fall into national obsession . the judge ordered the case to be re-opened , only to confirm the suspended sentence when the case was closed .
repeated military interventions in large muslim countries - egypt , indonesia , pakistan and turkey - have impeded orderly political development . but these countries " growing middle classes have begun to move their political systems in a different direction - a testament to the power they now rule . this power has increased for several reasons , which is of the greatest importance of demographic importance . most large muslim countries have very young populations , with a mid-20s medium to mid-20s . more than half of the population of these countries under 30 years , political development can move forward , despite recalcitrance entrenched elites .
although latin america 's economy is doing well now thanks to reforms and high commodity prices , there are problems . the aim is to introduce a comprehensive set of fiscal liability legislation that would limit the legislative and ministers " ability to relentlessly increase spending . rules must limit deficits , spending and debt and require transparency so that the public can know what is happening . if countries are to be able to develop a real commitment to fiscal credibility , they could significantly increase their economic growth . third , the commission 's list of investments in building and maintenance of infrastructure is increasing .
second , countries must focus on building the digital infrastructure needed to be successful and avoid any mention of the latest shiny innovation . developing countries have often seized new technologies - " distribute tablets to schoolchildren ! " - without even considering how they will be used in specific national contexts . this led to many disappointing pilot projects , which failed to achieve a sustainable impact . a new report from the commission 's progress on technology and inclusive development , based on the high school of oxford 's blavatnik , suggests how countries can solve this problem . the report calls on them to set up a " digital building block " - including basic infrastructure and skills - to use positive disruption to education and health services .
but overall , it is difficult to deny that the global economy is not in full momentum . this is partly because trees can not grow forever : china 's economy could not increase by 10 % each year . and partly because growth is not unconditionally desirable : citizens can be better off with less and clean air . but many countries are still poor enough to have strong growth potential , and many others , though rich , have not yet recovered from the global financial crisis . so there 's got to be something else to hold back to growth , and i 'm sure it 's going to happen .
in april 2009 , and in april-may 2010 , the red-faced red shirts were camped on the streets of bangkok , where they wanted to demand a new election , but the army had scattered 91 deaths . despite the failure and lost credibility of bangkok 's central business district , red shirts have grown in their numbers and show monthly evidence of abhisit 's government . and after two years , yellow shirts were also returned to the streets to show their disillusion . the leaders of the government now consider all politicians corrupt and extol the virtues of monarchy . using weapons of anti-corruption and rising nationalism ( resulting from a regular violent conflict with cambodia ) , the conservative movement of royalist-conservative movement implicitly points to a constitutional solution to the political standoff of thailand .
analysts estimate that in the next few years , growth will be driven by growth . gartner , research and advisory firm , estimates that the instruments allowed by the ai-enabled instrument will create $ 2.9 billion in the business value by 2021 , while predicting that by 2030 , the global economy could contribute by 2030 to a maximum of 15.7 billion . some estimates show that companies can save up to $ 4 billion a year with automation . and businesses " benefits will go much further than savings , as automation will encourage innovation , improve forecasting , optimize operations , and lead to better customer service . in any technological transition , the leaders of the change will not lose sight of the human element ; some things will never be done by the smartest machines .
because they ca n't be good at everything , they have to focus on what they 're best at - that 's their advantage . they should do a lot of good things and exchange them for other products that are better elsewhere , so they can use trade gains . but while some ideas are intuitive or clear , they can be dangerous . as it is often , you do n't know what you 're doing , but you mistakenly think it hurts you . and the idea that cities and countries are actually specialised , and that they should specialize in them , is one of the most dangerous ideas .
the problem is that germany was not forced to choose from the election , but from the beginning . it can only continue to maintain the euro at a minimum . this is clearly the choice of merkel , at least until the next election . europe would be much better off if germany had decided to choose between the eurozone and the eurozone 's exit , no matter the outcome ; indeed , germany would be better off . the situation deteriorates , and in the long term it will be unsustainable .
but the bilateral relationship has recently deepened considerably , which has been exemplified by the forum of the last week , which has resulted in more than 25 trade agreements and other agreements concerning areas ranging from agriculture to technology . the two leaders have agreed that their countries are now in better terms than ever . for russia , there are no doubt that china is more attractive to china than to russia . after five years of international sanctions , imposed on russia after the annexation of crimea , the xi 's criticism is seemingly welcome . but before vomiting , he would have remembered the soviet dissident song of the 1960s , " people are brothers , i will hug the chinese , " which was ridiculed by an early attempt at a russian union .
warsaw - the term of the president of the european council of europe will end on 30 november , which is the perfect timing for the opposition to polish . after the parliamentary election , the polish election will be held in april 2020 , and the opposition voters will see tusks as the only candidate . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur .
and if you want him to pay , it 'll help you pick it up without feeling like a cheap skate . or you can have a set of underused dining rooms with a lower number of chairs . you do n't want to lend it to him every day , but if anyone is willing to pay for $ 200 for dinner , it 's worth it . so you can set a high price for the inconvenience and make money . and you can give me different prices : $ 20,000 to rent a house in london during olympics , 10,000 for christmas , or 1,000 .
fifth , both sides should consider the new 144th and pacific economic cooperation summit in santiago as the last chance to sign a deal . following the high-level negotiations between chinese prime minister lu , he and us , representatives of the trade union of robert lighthizer , we should agree to outstanding problems in early november . getting a deal before thanksgiving is crucial to supporting us in business and consumer confidence for christmas season . i 'm one of the few commentators who argued all year that despite political fireworks , trump and xi 's basic interests are more likely than not . but the recently announced indictment procedure against trump could bring a key to this process .
europe 's union institutions and germany prefer " strategic autonomy , " while france favors the concept of " euro sovereignty . " but these two concepts are often used interchangeably , and they are rarely defined . in an effort to clarify the issue , my colleagues and i have recently proposed an operationalised definition of " european 's strategic autonomy . " we also analyzed the likely obstacles , difficulties and conflicts that would be a german and european policy makers who would choose to pursue this goal . we understand the strategic autonomy of the ability to set priorities and decide on foreign policy and security , as well as institutional , political , and essential means of implementing these decisions , whether in cooperation with third parties or only in the event of need .
the eradication of poppy crops is not only damaging local communities , but also undermines the objectives of the international community , but also the fact that opium production has been in place for the whole time being . in septum , the united states department for drug crime announced that the cultivation of poppy products increased by 60 % . the eradication will never be successful in afghanistan , as it will destroy a single crop that will grow in a harsh climate in the south - and thus serve as a main source of income for millions of people . it is therefore urgently necessary to find a new and long-term sustainable solution - which is directly involved in communities that suffer most - in order to support the poor people in the country . the senate council proposes to carry out scientific pilot projects in order to examine the opium licensing system for afghaghadic , which would be a key part of the economic recovery process .
we 're afraid of the bush administration , but we 're afraid of the bush . the concept of preventative war is to bring about the collision of civilisations that were predicted a decade ago , and which must be avoided . the muslim faith counts for millions of men and women around the world . five percent of them have declared war on our civilization and are ready to commit murder to end western domination . ninety-five percent of muslims , including most religious leaders , want peace and end the long humiliation of the islam , which can only be achieved by democracy and development in the muslim world .
but blindly sticking to principle would be a highly risky option for the ecb . it would mean that in 2012 , the so-called " redenomination risk " was adopted - an economic newtalk for the eurozone breakup . however , the ecb has committed a german ( and other taxpayers from the north of europe ) without approval of their parliaments to a potential obligation to bail out - who , exactly ? indeed , it seems that the typical north europe taxpayer is supporting the typical stakeholders in the north europe banks , which are too exposed to debtors in southern europe . german legal experts also interpret the activities of the european ecb as incompatible with the provisions of the european treaty , which prohibit bailout and financial financing of eurozone members .
by comparing the fight with the islands with the soviet union , the trump is raising the terrorist organization to the status of a great force . this contributes to the perception that isis is much more powerful than it is , and that it is once again being played in the hands of the isis recruiters . trump also expressed his interest in cooperation with russia in the fight against russia , and he did not seem to notice that russia 's involvement in syria was aimed at supporting assad 's regime . such a partnership could lead to an agreement with iran , which is more than willing to fight the iraqi radicals and syria . the irish now allow russian long-range bombers to use one of their air bases to strike syria , which complicates obama 's efforts to understand russian president vladimir 's efforts to end the civil war .
in fact , the recent mckinsey survey revealed that europe 's peans are seeking a more vibrant economy , higher incomes , and better public services ( especially health care and education ) , but they are prepared to take off the tradeoff , including the number of hours and restrictions on social protection , so that they can be achieved . 91 % of respondents said they would favor changes to the status quo , even if they needed a certain sacrifice . the current situation and the current state of affairs are urgently needed to change the situation . as it stands , the economic output of the euro per capita remains significantly below the level of 2008 . in most euro countries , gross sovereign debt exceeds the threshold ( 60 % of the gross debt ) , which is set out in the stability and growth pact .
colombo - sri lanka was praised for the process he had made since 2009 at the end of the war with separatist tigers . the economy is growing by 6.7 % annually , and statistics on education and health are impressive . all developing countries face countless challenges , but this is especially the case for countries that have suffered a 30-year civil war . the government will have to set priorities , but success will require a comprehensive approach . the war , such as the fight against the tamil tigers , is usually a social and economic grievance , such as discrimination , or perceived , and the lack of government power to address the differences in wealth and income .
western democracies , as most historians now acknowledge , played a relatively minor role in the great military battle . the pope believed he could either condemn both totalitarian forces and condemn them . but any condemnation of communism would be used by nazi propaganda as support for hitler 's war effort . and condemnation of nazism could be misinterpreted as an attack not against nazism , but against germany in the battle for life and death with stalin 's communist regime . few people in the vatican - indeed , in europe - knew the real thing in those days of the vast industrial power of the united states .
the data , which are immediately travelling around the world , are not relevant to the national border . i believe that the economic and social impact of such data will be contrary to the role of oil and internal combustion engines in the twentieth century . by its nature , the data is easily overcome by physical obstacles , and the data is difficult to overcome . the net , its effects and benefits are multiplied and then multiplied by the number of others . on the contrary , if the same is the same as a closed room , the resulting losses will be extended to the entire network .
meanwhile , serious trade reforms have started until 1991-93 , but the commission has not implemented any significant changes to trade . governments in both countries focused on their limited political capital and administrative resources in other areas than liberalization of trade . since both india and china have significantly increased trade , they are considered global banks " criteria . but as their experience reveals - along with the experience of many others , such as south korea , taiwan and vietnam - deep trade liberalization is hardly a factor in supporting higher growth and expansion of trade . it 's good to see how the world bank is trying to catch up with this simple reality .
i felt a terrible , restless energy that i suspected he would not be able to turn away if he wanted to . i felt the request was a test - the one i was prepared to take , as i carried out maps with me in the front air control planes . he seemed deeply involved , but he did not comment , and he did not ask me if i had anything to do with it . i said i did , but it was in the dark and in the dark . he suggested i make a typed copy and he gave me the general 's office .
these innovation types are not at the moment significantly represented in most of the hunter-alleviation strategies . but this is slowly changing , especially when more emerging economies connect to mobile networks and applications designed to collect and share agricultural information are increasingly available . for example , in egypt , sudan and ethiopia , local expansion services provide real-time weather data to farmers via sms . private companies such as ignitia in west africa are expanding the accuracy and accuracy of weather warnings to remote farmers . in mongolia , the inhabitants of the village receive information about the disease outbreaks , which will help them maintain the health of their cattle .
brussels - as the world 's financial elite converges on washington , the dc , at the annual meeting of the international monetary fund and the world bank , can not escape another clarion call for a reverse response to globalization . it is assumed that faltering trade must be an adverse trend . but the assumption is simple , at best , it 's a little easier . the problem is that in recent decades , trade growth has not been understood . of course , the effort has been made to catch the current slowdown .
finally , a policy of renminbi-depreciation would lead to a sharp increase in currency war . in a period of unprecedented quantitative easing , the development of competitive currency has become a norm for world major exporters - first of all , then japan and now the euro . if china had joined this race , others would have been tempted to strengthen their actions , and the world 's financial markets would be exposed to a new source of serious instability . china , as china , resisted the temptation to renminbi depreciation during the 1997-98 asian financial crisis - a decision that could play a key role in the arrest of regional contagion - must remain in the course of today 's course . this is the most important thing in the orderly climate of the qe , where china 's role as a currency anchor may be even more important than in the late 1990 " s .
and even if fiscal policy makers were more responsive , they would begin to act in a relatively high deficit and debt . the extension of the current expansion will require great care , and the situation will be very important . politicians , especially congress , must avoid big mistakes and limit the risk of market accidents , while promoting growth . we need a well-targeted approach to modernizing and modernizing infrastructure , which is a prerequisite for its implementation . politicians and leading economists must also be more sensitive to the sharing of economic growth , and in particular , better protections should be provided for the most vulnerable parts of society and the strongest automatic stabilization .
for many years , the imf has taken part in a process called " surveillance , " which monitors , analyzes and consults on economic policy of each country - both for exchange rates and for relevant domestic policies . these regular controls help to identify possible weaknesses and maintain economic stability . but the increasingly complex challenges of the global economy require a new look at this process . this une , the imf 's executive board , has just done it , and has reached a broad consensus on the update of surveillance so that it can be more focused and effective . this is one of the most important reforms to the fund 's activities in 30 years following the creation of the surveillance process .
in order to achieve this , it is necessary to adopt four measures . first , debt conference is needed , and creditors from southern europe and banks will be forced to pay their debts . creditors who have rejected part of their claims must include public entities , in particular the ecb , which has now largely replaced private creditors . second , eurozone members , whose path to competitiveness through price reduction and wage reduction is too long and exhaustive , and the companies that risk renounce the necessary austerity , must temporarily leave the monetary union . the pain of exiting should be supplemented by a community financial assistance that will not be needed for long , as the devaluation of a new currency will restore competitiveness .
this is important because ukraine only partially fulfilled the imf agreements signed in 1994 and 2010 . finally , instead , the ukrainian authorities should insist that all politically motivated criminal cases be halted and released by those who are imprisoned for political crimes . selective use of justice has severely damaged the reputation of the administration of yanukovych . the measures in this direction would greatly improve the relations of the ukrainian government with the eu and the two of us . these three steps will not solve all the difficulties associated with the ukrainian relationship .
he claimed his efforts to improve relations with russia were in the interest of america , and that shortly after the summit , he had invited putin to visit the white house . putin just reciprocated with an invitation to jump on the kremlin . but trump 's enthusiasm ( and desire to resist critics ) is not a substitute for mutual beneficial cooperation , as mentioned in 1959 , when dwight eisenhower invited nikki khrushchev to visit us and 1986 , when mikhail gorbachev and ronald reagan met in reykavík . instead , trump 's actions look more like a kowtowing man , raising the other leaders ' heads . for many members of the security facility , putin 's apparent influence on trump poses a threat to us democracy , as well as soviet union at the peak of the cold war .
washington , dc - this month , europe 's citizens will be elected to select 751 members of the european parliament to represent 507 million people . the way the election campaign is developing is a small but significant step towards the emergence of the first international political space in europe - indeed , in the world . the european parliament 's election in 2009 brought smaller votes : 43 % compared to 60 % in 1978-1994 . however , the rate of participation in the last decade is comparable to the average turnout in the election in the us congress . given the importance of the european parliament and the general frustration of the bureaucracy of the european union , the participation and movement of transnational politics are remarkable .
but the bomb was not locked up , and the terrorist was the only one who was killed . the episode looks like a huge failure to secure security , as if the head of the fbi personally welcomed one of bin laden 's aides at the garden party . but it is only a highly personalised political form that the saudi royal family has adopted with the defection of al-qaeda 's members . this policy , even with its risks , partly explains al-qaeda 's defeat in the saudi arabia . a highly personalised political part of what can be called the theatre of the state of the saudi arabia , which is firmly held by the royal family .
they said he had spoken seven languages of prime minister levi eshkol . he could say he spoke ten languages and all had an oxfordfordshire or cambridge accent . yet what was called upon by the outside world was not always an asset in the tumble and tumble of the island 's politics . perhaps eban was too bane , too much scholar and gentleman , so that he could not do it - in the words of the eli - to the top of a greasy pole . together with the golda meir and the moshe day - he had to leave the government in 1974 , following the war with kippur .
but whether europe is a whole avoiding a decade of economic growth , it is still in balance , and it depends on whether the southern eurozone 's governments can rapidly restore competitiveness . the process of becoming uncompetitive in southern europe was primarily driven by market price signals - incentives that created signals for entrepreneurs , and how entrepreneurs " rational responses were conducted in macroeconomic terms . the north europeans , who wanted to invest in the money , were willing to provide them with extremely easy conditions for those who wanted to spend , and in the pre-2007 period , employers were willing to raise wages quickly . as a result , the southern euro was adopted by an economic arrangement in which its wage , price and productivity levels were meaningful only if it had spent eur 13 for each of the 12 euro , which it had received , and the euro was lost in the north . meanwhile , the northern euro was adopted by wage and productivity levels , which made sense only if it had spent less than one euro for each euro he had earned .
the global economic downturn is the last thing the world needs when it is already in danger , including any disruption to the market and the gains of populist in the election of the european parliament in the eurozone . of course , while trump does not save his allies , china remains the main target . after all , the competition between us and china is far beyond the limits of trade . although we maintain military , technological , financial , and subtle superiority , china is constantly gaining support for bipartisan in the fight against the odds . last octane , vice-president of china has accused china of stealing technology , predatory economic expansion and military aggression .
they can be answered regularly and regularly only through a iterative process of strategic interaction between public authorities and private businesses . the common issue , which is based on studies of so-called policies based on placements , such as regional subsidies for employment and investment in infrastructure , is a highly contingent success . few policies work on the shelf and reliably in different settings , but they do n't work much . competitions between states and locations , which attract large employers with taxes and other subsidies , are particularly difficult . recently , a major deal with foxconn and amaon in wisconsin and new york exploded .
shanghai - china is facing a difficult task of managing a soft economic landing after decades of spectacular expansion . the naysayers are abound , but they do n't mind . china has an advantage that other countries in today 's troubled global economy are lacking : a clear path forward . if china is to carry out a sustained and comprehensive effort to increase productivity , it can solve its growth problems , reduce the risk of financial crisis , and complete its transition to a consumer economy with a high income economy , with a large and rich middle class . if so , it would be possible that its annual gdp would be an estimated $ 5 billion by 2030 , which would be more likely if policymakers continued to pursue growth in the unit in which they invested .
the long - as governments across the western eurozone began to rob banks and depositors , the eastern europeans watched anxiously , and they did n't know what the global financial storm would mean for them . now that the storm has struck , the weak bond of solidarity in europe is being tested . two countries - hungary and ukraine - have already asked for a large number of support packages . a few more could happen next month if the frozen credit markets had n't changed . if the situation continues until the end of the year , which can not be ruled out , many countries could face serious banking problems .
but the main question for health professionals is whether the food is worth it or not . this is a significant difference , since the quantity is determined by the user , while the quality of the product is determined by the industry . some health experts argue that the specific ingredients of processed foods - especially sugar - are addictive to cocaine and heroin . sugar is , for example , the most important ingredient in terms of food addiction , which is measured by human food desires . the processed food industry says , " you need sugar to survive , you have to be able to live . "
a coordinated effort between private and public partners in order to deliver oral polio vaccine to each child under five years was a key factor in success . international donors and agencies have worked closely with the national governments , and they have spoken of the need for massive political immunization campaigns aimed at reaching hundreds of millions of children . only last year , the global initiative for eradication of polio has delivered nearly two billion doses of polio to 575 million children in 94 countries . in each country , partner institutions , including the health minister , the world health organization , the unicef , the other non-volunteer organizations , the service groups , the same as the rotary international , the representatives of the donor governments , the private sector and the non-governmental organisations , together and carefully planned all the immunization campaign . all details of the number of bicycles and boats needed to deliver the vaccine to the other places that were not accessible , refrigerators and cold boxes needed to protect the vaccine , even batteries needed to be used to drive them , were counted and budgeted .
in a increasingly large trading world , a new g6 could provide a defense of the system based on rules . still , one wonders if the eu can create a united front . with the impact of the bloc on different political tribes , other powers are easier to pursue a strategy of divides and conquers . this strategy has long been adopted by china and us . for example , in 2016 , member states in the south and eastern part of the eu , for example , rely on chinese investments managed to reduce the joint statement on china 's territorial intervention in the southern chinese sea .
corruption is one of the main problems of africa 's disease , and it is not a problem of africa . indeed , it is a key issue in the upcoming presidential election of nigeria , given that president obasanjo has a strong mind , but he has not fought to suppress it . but globalization 's winds should have blown away the web of bribery and efficiency . harvard 's political scientist has devesh kapur , and he 's suggesting why it 's not happening . avoid direct economic activity , limit its discretion , and improve economic efficiency and governance .
rence - europe 's peans , who want to revive the process of unification on the continent , have recently focused their attention on the creation of the united states . many of us , however , reject the precedent for reasons that are too different from those who have been present . others who accept that federalist principles could be appropriate for addressing europe 's common market problems , and they desperately hope that europe 's people , who could bring about this new political structure , are lacking . but there are , among other things , a striking parallel between the founding years of america and the ongoing political and economic crisis of the european union . the creation of a constitution and the emergence of american people offers reasons to hope that one day it will be possible to solve some of the most difficult challenges facing europe .
moscow - the ongoing protests on the streets in hong kong and moscow have undoubtedly caused the authoritarian duo of president xi 's chatter and russian president vladimir putin . moscow 's protests , the largest in many years , must be held up at night , or they will not be dispersed with such an unspeakable brutality . instead of talking to people , putin proved he was in control , even preening for pictures in a tight leather suit with his favourite motorcycle gang . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries .
the next year , the emperor of the persians , the yazdegerd , fled to the border province of khorasan , and began to abate persia , and the persistence of the fact that he had taken the names of the arababababababababi and turned to the island . 651 , nearly all major urban centers in sia were controlled by the arab and added momentum to the process . the first step toward establishing the first caliphate was the conversion of mass to the island , which was a political religious state , which was composed of all muslim countries . in many times , caliphates have expanded into asia , africa and europe . the effort of various forces seeking to control or restore caliphate is repeated throughout the history of islam .
the russian government 's reluctance to fight corruption and strengthen the legal institutions of the country reflects a perverse , but stable political equilibrium . in 2010 , the tsyvinski and i predicted a scenario of 70-80 in russia : the oil price , which fell to 40 barrels , returned to the barrel of the barrel , and surpassed the $ 70-80 barrel , russia returned to the stagnation of the 1970 " s and 1980 " s. the growth of gdp in 2010 to 2012 , although average 4 % , proved to be due to the post-crisis crisis crisis recovery , and further increased oil prices for $ 100 / barrel . all of these short-term factors have been exhausted and the rest of the stagnation has begun . russia 's political elite understands that the economy is capable of annual growth 5-6 % .
the left-wing advocates of modern monetary theory claim that a larger permanent fiscal deficit is sustainable in the period of economic unemployment , as inflation is not at risk . according to this logic , the labor force proposed a " qe " to the group , whereby the central bank would print money to finance direct tax transfers to households - instead of bankers and investors . others , including mainstream economists , such as the leading turner , the former chairman of the financial services company uk , called for " helicopter reduction " : direct cash transfers to consumers via central-banking fiscal deficits financed by the central banks . others , like former vice president stanley fischer and his colleagues in the black rock , proposed a " permanent emergency fiscal facility , " which would allow the central bank to finance a large tax deficit in the event of a deep recession . despite the terminology , all of these proposals are different : in the case of the next fall , large fiscal deficits should be used by central banks .
most developing countries are too small to spend money on devising good projects . when it comes to the private sector , it is often very difficult to transform ideas into projects that can be financed , since many decisions or actions are involved in the coordination of public sector decisions . let 's assume that the toll project is approved , the concession contract is ready and the company offers it . candidates must plan two phases : engineering , procurement and construction , and a longer period of operation in respect of the collection of charges for reimbursement of costs and expected revenue . both phases are uncertain , but especially during the epc , which may last for 3-7 years , depending on the project .
in addition , there is a clear business justification for prioritising green finance . investors and rating agencies are increasingly examining the investment portfolio for potential " stranded assets , " such as projects in the field of oil and gas , which will become obsolete , as the more energy-efficient technologies will be commercially viable . many existing fossil projects already have shorter life expectancy than previously assumed , and financial portfolios , which are heavily dependent on these assets , will be more likely to be at risk of devaluation . if some governments have abandoned their previous commitments to reduce emissions , it might be possible to assume that global efforts to combat climate change are losing steam . but we should not underestimate the financial pressure that will lead to changes , nor should we ignore the determination of local and private governments to act in a situation where the government is not in place . however , in order to get all governments on board , the transition to low-carbon must be included .
i 'm defending the family values , whatever it means , it 's not going to happen . recently , a group of members of the parliament ( quite a large group of 30 representatives ) left the party after solidarity and created a new party for " polish family " with slogan that the ruling coalition is in the " service of brussels . " a less aggressive anti-euro policy is a tendency that is struggling with old values such as honor and virtue . in practice , this movement is motivated by little more than fear of change . but here , people who have been active in the movement of solidarity in the past - for them , the movement of society and not individuals , the movement of citizens and private freedom - is a new element of euro-antagonists .
this may be part of the case , but competition for talent and customers seems to be a strong one between investment banks and others , but they have been rewarded with a great deal of reward for these customers . another hypothesis , which seems to be consistent with the facts , was recently found in the woolley center for the study of the decline in capital markets in london 's economic school . scientists argue that in the most fragile speculative industry ( and finance has certainly been in this category for the last few years ) , investors are difficult to monitor those who manage their money . they see short-term returns , but they do n't understand how they come back . managers can demand higher and higher returns in the context of a higher return on the rise .
the united states are consistently among the world 's top ten countries for innovation , including the global index of innovation in insead . but on the global index of peace , 88th of 153 countries are ranked . the united kingdom and the underworld are also in fifth and sixth place on the index of innovation , but only 28 and 29 on the index of peace . on the contrary , bhutan is among the top 20 most peaceful nations , but it does not even come to innovation indices . crime , terrorism , conflict and political instability are so serious that they are completely broken by law , and they are significantly impeded by creativity and innovation .
but merkel is still defending us , and , apart from macron and dutch prime minister , rutte is most likely to stand up to the european parliament in the area of spitzenkandidate . this may shorten the chances of margrethe vestager - who is not from the epp , but who , in a way , is a liberal spitzenkanat - and extending them to the michel barnier , which is from the epp , but not from the spitzenkanat . if the council succeeds in the ruling out weber and his supporters of the populist , macron will claim it as a success . finally , the election will provide a more general check on german hegemony . germany 's christian democratic union has weakened , and green countries have grown stronger .
on january 1 , 2007 , the ban on ki-moon , former foreign minister of south korea , will become a united nation , the general secretary-general , following the ten-year tenure of kofi annan . the world was inspired by diplomacy and leadership in reducing poverty and human rights , but the iraq war split the world , drawing attention to the crisis regions , and financial resources , and the critical long-term problems such as climate change , disease control , and access to water . with recent elections in the united states and the rise of global influence in asia , we have the opportunity to focus the world 's attention on the world 's most critical challenges facing our planet . iraq , iraq , iraq , iraq , iraq , iraq , iraq , palestine , lebanon , somalia , myanmar , sudan , north korea , and others . recent attempts to influence the development of these countries through threats and penalties and sometimes wars have failed .
that 's why the disastrous free-for-all trade policy in the 1930 " s has worsened significantly . many people complain that something similar is happening today , if not so much . the clothing called a global trade alert ( gta ) was in the lead , raising alarm bells about what he called " protectionist juggernaut . " the latest report of the gta identifies at least 192 separate protectionist measures since november 2008 , and china is the most common target . this number has been widely listed in the press , which is why it is not a financial press .
if people come to a country where they earn higher wages , the pie is growing , but if they come to social benefits , the pie will be smaller . in light of this , why do not have a system in which the costs of social benefits for immigrants are shared by the host countries and countries of origin ? the host countries could take responsibility for the management of benefits such as unemployment , sickness and pensions . and countries of origin could continue to provide benefits that are not related to employment , such as allowances for children who stay at home and are provided by migrants who are too old or are sick to work when they arrive . such a change would create a win-win situation for the eu , as it would reduce the destructive appeal of magnetism for social welfare and would give british reasons to reconsider their decision to leave the market with their heads held high .
what needs to be done is clear for a long time , and it is clear . the price of the survival of the monetary union and thus the euro 's project is more of a community : banking union , fiscal union and political union . those who oppose this , for they fear common responsibility , the transfer of rich to poor , and the loss of sovereignty of the state must be accepted by the euro 's re-nationalization - and thus its exit from the world . no alternative - and certainly not the status quo - will work out . in europe , it is widely known that the ongoing crisis will either destroy the euro , or that it will bring about the political union , and that the euro can not be saved without a solidarity solution to existing debt and partial changes in debt .
instead , the so-called " structural funds " are not deprived of tools that finance investment in poorer regions , but they do not have a strategy to use them . the outcome of the discussion may be better described as " emu 1.7.3 " than " emu 2.0 . " there will be more bugs to be repaired , including new bugs found in the fixes . for investors , it may seem impossibly long and hesitant to be a reform process . but , under international negotiations and governance , the european union was extremely quick .
although education and structures are gradually diversified , the main shortfalls of most european education systems remain : the students have too few choice , and teachers , if they want to stay in their profession , must be subject to a highly fragmented teaching system . as with the monopolies of businesses , consumers ( students ) are often regarded as homogenous , and all students can be educated according to the same teaching methods . but schools must be able to meet the needs and skills of individual children , so that they can learn to stimulate adventure . other countries could find that sweden 's system is worth studying , and that 's why it 's worth it . schools are funded by local communities and work in national curriculum , designed by parliament and government .
from now on , they are in prison and out of prison , and they have no chance of getting a job to do with the law that will allow them to escape poverty . their children grow up without parents at home - and without hope and support . drug users often become drug users . it 's crazy that we missed the point - and we missed it for 40 years . in order to prevent poverty , the country must invest in the future of its children , not in prison for 2.3 million people , many of which are not violent acts of poverty .
the construction boom , which was not based on residential construction , helped not only absorb the workforce that had left rural areas , but also to achieve a significant reduction in inequality . in this strategy of growth , which has been driven by the export , the lack of qualifications has not become a major problem , thanks to the relatively open immigration policy , which has enabled the country to use the talent that colombia has not been maintained among other countries . the comparison of these two approaches is clear , and the two approaches are not clear . colombia 's politicians hoped that if they adopt the best practice and regulations , someone will come . and if they do n't , they can still rely on international accolades they receive from foreign entities .
moreover , the public sector is now largely relegating in advanced economies , with huge budget deficits and accumulation of public debt caused by automatic stabilizers , anti-cyclical fiscal stimulus , and huge costs for the socialization of financial systems . at best , we will face a protracted period of anemic growth , which will be below-trend in advanced economies , as household , financial institutions , and governments will begin to feed for consumption and investment . at a global level , countries that have spent too much - united states , united kingdom , country , and elsewhere - now need to be deleveraging , consuming , and importing less . but countries that saved too much - china , emerging asia , germany , and japan - do not spend much more to offset the fall in spending by deleveraging countries . thus , global aggregate demand will be inadequate and global growth will be significantly reduced .
the current crisis , the fall of the wall street , is neo-liberalism , which was the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 for communism . the global dimension of the crisis is surprisingly positive , but it is also a positive side . the international community is now in charge of thinking about how to reorganize the financial sector and reduce the risk of a similar disaster . until now , the main problem was the unwillingness of countries to cooperate . the previous requirements for stricter regulations have not been achieved since the financial sector has been opposed .
the liberal state should be neutral in this matter , and every citizen should decide whether to provide financial support to the roman church or bayreuth . unlike the militant liberal french tradition , the neutralist liberal philosophy is seeking to prevent any side of the ongoing culture war from using the government 's coercive power to tax as a weapon against the souls of the people . in the context of the advocating disintroduction of religious and secular orthodoxies , i do not want to trivialize the importance of their ongoing competition in terms of life . thanks to the infinite importance of this debate , the state should seek to be neutral . after all , if the state is ostentatiously taking part in this conversation , it can not prevent the denial of the ultimate conviction of many of its dissenting citizens .
the world is facing another fundamental choice between two fundamentally different forms of organization : international capitalism and capitalism . the first represented by the united states has been shattered and the chinese state is on top . the gradual disintegration of international financial systems will lead to a minimum resistance . a new multi-party system should be created , based on the principles of the ounder . international cooperation in reform of legislation is difficult to achieve in part , but it may be possible to make a big deal of reorganization of the entire financial order .
mario monti , commissioner for the european union for competition policy , is often the focus , usually to be popular . over the years , he has won an important victory in limiting state aid to businesses , one of the most pernicious economic maldies in europe . but today , however , the benefits of his achievements are threatened by a series of stunning courtroom defeats . commissioner monti , with a case of competition against software giant microsoft , will have to find his footing quickly . within a few weeks , the european court of justice ( for which private parties can appeal to the commission ) has declared three monti decisions rejecting the proposed merger of companies .
so many proud and dignified people have lost their lives and must rely on one tiny meal for the day . worse , these tragedies were prevented ; we knew that the crisis would come . drought and hunger are a slow disaster that can be averted with appropriate planning and sufficient resources . but it is time and time again that humanitarian assistance in africa has been short , as in 2011 and 2012 , in niger in 2005 and in ethiopia in the 1980 " s. as now , food uncertainty was predicted long before the first hunger attack .
the bottom board includes transnational relations that exceed the limits of government control - all drugs from drugs to infectious diseases to climate change to international terrorism . on this board , power is distributed chaotically among non-state actors , and the power is divided into two parts . without the cooperation of others , the government can not control the results of the negotiations . here we need the help of the europeans , and it is no point to call this world uni-polar . at the bottom of this table , it is also important to close cooperation between civilians , which is affected by the attractiveness of the country or the soft power of the country .
translation : the orderly solution to global megabanks is the illusion of the illusion . if we allow cross-border banks to reach their current level or close it , our political leaders will not be able to accept their failure . and since these big financial institutions are " too big to fail , " they can borrow more cheaply than otherwise . worse , they have a motive and an opportunity to grow even more and more . this form of government support is a large implicit subsidy for large banks .
and by increasing the cost of extracting fossil fuels , it would contribute to the phasing out of the sector , which is not in a safe climate . fortunately , the world will not have to wait for a moral rise to take the day . fossil fuels and governments are already facing greater pressure from the legal point of view . typhoon , who survived in philippines , filed a complaint against the state 's commission for human rights , and called for an investigation into the responsibility of large fossil fuels companies for climate change . the dutch urgenda group and nearly 900 plaintiffs successfully sued the dutch government and forced it to adopt more stringent climate policy .
several years ago , the national semiconductor was able to manage a complex supply system linking three factories and three sub-contractors to its global network of customers . he decided to cancel this operation to the federal express , using a sophisticated online system for the management of global supply and sales . as a result , the national semiconductor has seen its supply cycle to customers who have been reduced from four weeks to one week , and sales costs have been reduced from 2.9 % to 1.2 % . several steps need to be taken to support the huge increase in the use of the internet in other places : * liberalization of telecommunications , including the introduction of new providers of private services , is essential to reduce costs and increase benefits .
if governments do a larger tax deficit and finance it not with interest-bearing debt , but with central-bank money , nominal demand will undoubtedly increase , and there will be a mixture of higher inflation and higher real power . the possibility of so-called " money for helicopters " is therefore increasingly discussed in the future . but the debate about it is mixed with a mixture of confusions , and it 's not true . it is often claimed that the etizing tax deficit would lead central banks to keep interest rates low for an eternity , and that would mean excessive inflation . at the same time , it is argued ( sometimes the same people ) that cash financing would not encourage demand , as people fear a " inflation tax . "
geneva - when the lehman brothers declared bankruptcy a decade ago , it was suddenly unclear who owed what he owed , who could not repay his debts and who would go down the stairs . the result was that interbank credit markets were frozen , the wall street was panicking , and businesses were not just in the united states , but in the world . politicians who had tried to respond to the crisis had left economic pundits to wonder if the " great moderation " of the low volatility of the business cycle since the 1980s had turned into a new major crisis . in hindsight , it was clear that the complacency of the implementation of the crisis was not conscientious . and yet there has been little change in the aftermath of the incident , and it has n't changed much .
the coalition partners do n't agree on how urgent it is to solve this problem . however , they agreed that , within one year , the commission would provide various options and models to protect the rights of the german parliament , while providing guarantees to the german partners that the country would be a reliable contributor to the deployment of troops . if the split , which will be decided on a coalition agreement in early december , would block the formation of a new government ( a highly improbable development , but not entirely out of the question ) , there would be no dispute about security and defense . in addition to several minor details , the consensus is prevented from doing so . for some , that 's a reason for the ambivalence of the atmosphere .
for example , there has been a delay in the necessary biosecurity legislation in nigeria and uganda . most of the problem is a small group of activists who protest against technology for " moral " reasons . they usually claim that the gm crops are not safe - the scientific community has rejected them in the last two decades . the world health organization also confirmed that " no effect on human health has been shown as a result of food consumption . " each new variety of gm must meet stringent standards of health , environment and efficiency .
regulatory authorities may find that regulated provisions must be required . however , this solution will not be complete , since all derivatives traders are not regulated by financial institutions , and many creditors would find a way to circumvent the contract and demand . if the coverage is not complete , it is possible to expect a regulated complaint that they have been disadvantaged in terms of competition . regulators may need to turn to bankruptcy law and solve the problem . the call of regulators to the island for voluntary action is not much if it is only a request for derivatives to act against its financial interests .
the result was section 124a of the criminal code , according to which anyone who used " words , signs or visible representation ... to expel disaffection for the government " could be accused of sedition and , where appropriate , sentenced to life imprisonment . in other words , he did not speak for the indians for the freedom of expression . but even this was not enough for british leaders , who , in 1898 , tightened the law and made it even harder than the legislation of the session in england . the british have concluded that , in the words of the british governor of the british government , " the law of the state , which is appropriate for the government 's own nationality and belief , may be inadequate or , in some respects , inappropriate for the country under foreign law . " the condition was thus explicitly designed as a tool to intimidate indian nationalists ; indeed , mahatma gandhi was among its main victims , though far from the last .
oul - china - the world 's largest exporter , manufacturer and owner of international-reserve assets - is prepared to take the united states this year as the world 's largest economy ( measured according to purchasing power parity ) . now , it is using its growing influence to reshape global economic governance . indeed , the days of the country following the death order for denise xiaoping to " hide the brightness and cherish darkness " are long gone . after decades of active involvement in international economic institutions - including g-20 , international monetary fund , world bank and world trade organization - china has begun to resemble a revision of the power of a revision that seeks to create a new world order . last month , china and other 20 asian countries signed a memorandum to establish a new multi-multilateral development bank , a bank of investment in infrastructure .
progress in the single market has helped to increase competitiveness , which is why it is not necessary to ensure that the market is well founded . the new free-trade agreements allow europe 's economy to access the world 's most important markets . the achievement of a global climate agreement is promising not only to protect the environment , but also to strengthen the role of the european union as a leading factor in sustainability . the european union 's security has significantly improved and has significantly expanded the expansion of the euro . these results are , in all reasonable standards , remarkable results in the area of high quality .
a special report on semiconductors - which is essential for the national security and economic competitiveness of the president barack 's board of advisers to science and technology ( hereinafter referred to as " pcast " ) provides some answers . the report , which was written by a group of non-partisan businessmen and academics ( i was a member ) , proposed that we cooperate with its allies to enforce international law , to impose china on its world trade organisation , strengthen export controls and restrictions on investment . the european union , japan , south korea and taiwan all have a major role in the global supply chain for semiconductors , and some have already tightened security measures in the semiconductor ip and in the acquisition of semiconductor companies by chinese investors . the report recommends that we adopt similar tactics , calibrate export controls and limit investments within the country according to china 's behaviour . this recommendation is consistent with the proposed bipartisan legislation , which will extend the jurisdiction of the committee on foreign investments in us ( which will review the merger and acquisition of foreign companies ) for a wider range of investments ( including equity in chinese businesses and private equity investments in our start-ups ) .
innovation based on business and market solutions can lead to a decisive change in the world from crippling fossil fuels to more efficient renewable energy systems . the reinventive fire analysis of rock mountains shows that such a future can be achieved , and that it offers a market-driven strategy to boost the economy by 158 % by 2050 - without oil , coal , or nuclear energy . the rapid and determined measures to increase the efficiency of buildings , design cars , which require small fossil fuels , and the increase in the share of renewable energy in the supply of electricity , could ensure that the ipcc warns against the ipcc are significantly warmer and less pleasant by 2050 . our lives , not to mention the lives of future generations , should not be held hostage by the fact that fossil fuels are still dependent on us . four decades ago , countries did not only have an immediate economic impact on the embargo on the ec , but also contributed to the potential for the lack of oil to stimulate innovation .
the uranium captured was not a weapon grade ; international inspectors removed all sensitive materials from iraq after the gulf war 1991 ( which is why it was not present in 2003 when the united states invaded the united states ) . but what international response would be if the cache was fortified ? on the same day , hamas detonated three powerful iranian-designed rockets from gaza to the dimona reactor . fortunately , two missed the target , and israel managed to catch the third . but this episode was a serious escalation of hostilities , and it was an important reminder of the vulnerability of nuclear reactors in the war zone .
although the dollar appreciation has taken a certain pressure from non-us economies , which depend on exports or foreign capital , the risk of open currency war has increased . at the same time , all indicators are not grim , and they do n't know what to do . labor markets remain largely healthy , even in the rest of the world 's anemic economies , such as germs , and household consumption is still strong in most of the major economies . moreover , the increase in oil prices has also caused further negative growth problems . the economy of the two of us reflects this dichotomy , and this is what it is .
in a personal computer business - which moved from a bulky apple to an elegant and intelligent iphone 4s ( announced the day before steve 's death ) - steve was the only real showman of what is now one of the world 's biggest industry . he inspired the public enthusiasm for the quality of his products and his charisma . ( others have become leaders of " business , " but only steve has become someone who has been famous and admired by millions - including a romantic waiter in a british airway lounge , where i 'm now sitting . ) i met steve in 1979 or 1980 . for some reason , he was held in a playboy resort in lake geneva ( never again ! ) .
the growth rate of the " gdp " of cambridge - america 's real growth rate of 3.2 % in the first quarter of the year is impressive , as well as 3 % of the average growth in 2018 ( measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 ) . since the end of a major recession - from 2011 to 2017 - the economic situation has grown by 2.1 % per year . what do you think is the cause of recent acceleration ? - yes , the last step . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries .
in closed systems , candidates should be zippered : men , women , men , women , or vice versa . in open systems , 50 % of the quota should be adopted , according to the commission . it is not possible to estimate with precision the impact of an increase in the percentage of quotas in open systems , which currently have effective quota rules . but if these countries replace the open lists , the percentage of women should increase by about 10 % . the impact would be the biggest ( which would result in an increase in the number of women selected in the system , which currently do not have effective quota rules , approximately 20 % .
trump systematically denied the division of power at the core of our constitutional system . for example , he was frustrated that congress had denied him all the money he wanted for his fantastic fantastic wall along the border with mexico , and he had just taken the money from the funds that congress had provided to the defense department . he also rejected the constitutional ban on accepting emoluments - money or personal benefits from foreign governments , who carry out business , sometimes even excessive participation in hotels and golf clubs - and found other ways to get rid of the presidency . moreover , trump tried to steer government contracts for companies he did n't like , or for those he did n't like - for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example and , according to a special adviser , robert mueller tried to prevent an investigation into the negotiations with russia in 2016 .
if debt is not sustainable , there may be a number of possible outcomes in the negotiations . payments to debt services are sometimes postponed and may be extended for a long period of time , so the debtor country will have time to recover the payment . creditors sometimes agree to exchange old bonds for new ones , which have a lower face value or lower interest . few governments refuse to pay for it , in any way , in any way . argentina did not pay the debt in 2001 , and she did not pay the debt .
this strategy of " pping the tip " is highly cost-effective , and it is not a good way to go . " however , the strategy can only be " cost-effective " if it is possible . although the ring prophylaxis can work in minneapolis , toron or zurich in the world , where flu pandemics begin , the probability of success is zero . in places such as vietnam , indonesia and china , where pandemic pressure is likely to come from , there is no experience , coordination , discipline , and infrastructure . the turkey response - where 50 cases were found in the eastern part of the country - is instructive .
it remains a vital place for global supply chains for many manufactured goods such as computers and mobile phones , which allow for lower prices for consumers in the world . china has created a major trade partner for the united states , most of the eurozone 's countries , and many other economies , as well as its creation in the middle of internal asian trade and supply-chain dynamics . china , moreover , is roughly $ 3.3 billion in foreign-exchange reserves - much of which are in dollars , but also in other major currencies - owing to a large trade surplus in recent decades . it helps finance the deficit of trade in other countries and domestic investments ( many of the beneficiaries have a large budget deficit that reduces national savings below the domestic investment level ) . deng xiaoping reforms have triggered the most rapid economic improvement in human history , and with it the emergence of a large and growing middle class .
for the government of ukraine , the angst is real , and it is not a good thing . even the ukrainians , born in 1986 , understand what kind of disaster the chernobyl disaster caused by the battle could look like . history offers little advice about whether countries should prevent nuclear damage to nuclear power stations . with the exception of the balkans in the 1990 " s , wars have not been fought against nuclear reactors or in the countries in which it was located . in the case of balkans , serbian military jets overflew the nuclear power plant of slovenia in a menacing gesture at the start of the conflict , while radical nationalists called for an attack to release radioactive material .
china has taken full advantage of the desperation of kremlin and secured the lowest rate of russian energy . but as soon as the door of asia opened , russian companies took advantage of the opportunity to enter the indian and indonesia markets - two countries that are critical to the saudis strategy . over the last two years , saudi arabia clearly clearly clearly clearly clearly showed that it would not give up on anyone 's market share . it has taken a campaign to restore its original position not only in crude oil , but also in oil products , gas and petrochemical . to that end , the price war was supported by a boost in production , aimed at pushing weaker competitors .
indeed , maintaining , prospering and flourishing all of them are related to experience , not money . what kind of economy would it be if it were to live in this good life ? history suggests that business people would be one of them ( they would be wary of the possibility of unnoticed , and they would use their initiative to try new things ) and innovative people ( they would have imagined new things , they would develop new concepts in trade products and in ways , and their marketing would be possible . participants in such a good economy would be able to extend from the social roots to the most advantageous . this is the kind of economy i hope that china will develop , and that 's why it is not .
( although this may not be a automation - the supermarket has just moved a little bit of shopping to the customer . ) for those who fear the threat of automation , they are prepared to train people for better jobs . but technological progress is now being made to get better jobs , and that 's why we 're doing it . many jobs , which we now consider to be skilled , safe and irreduced , may be another loss of technological change . as the recent article in the financial period points out , in two areas , which are now widely immune to productivity growth , education and health care , technology is already reducing demand for skilled labor .
in an august , the gunmen invaded the house of the impoverished widow maria balogh , shot her to death and wounded her 13-year-old daughter . in april , the killers shot a roma factory worker when he was on his way to work . in febbbbbbbbbest , a father of roma and his five-year-old son were killed before the house . the house was burned to the ground , and the fire was on the ground . last november , a couple of roma was killed in the northeast hunting grounds .
a more rational approach would be to accept the reality of the 21st century . the information revolution has changed the world so that rates do n't change much . with us , workers are already competing with robots at home , and against workers with low salaries abroad , the import will only create more jobs for robots . trump should be protected by individual workers , not by individual jobs , but by themselves . globalization 's twenty-first century processes are too sudden , unpredictable and uncontrollable , and they can not rely on such static measures as tariffs .
he probably means what he 's saying about jews and islands , but is he a hitler who is late and today is not the same as bacteria in the 1930 " s. hitler was close to developing a nuclear bomb , but he never had it , while ian could do it . but hitler 's power over germany was much more absolute than ahmadinejad 's power over iran . the results of recent municipal elections in ireland were humiliating for aahmadinejad and his supporters . these elections would be unthinkable in the german german german state , and they would not be able to make a decision .
but this requires a rich range of ideas , not just one single and single approach . the second principle is subsidiarity , which is believed to be devolved whenever possible . this ensures that the local and regional preferences are assessed , together with the effects of harmonization and economies of scale throughout the euro . the last principle is consistent with ensuring that the decision is responsible for the outcome of the decision . this means that , if europe is elected , it will be a dream of maintaining sovereignty over fiscal and economic policy .
george w. the economic policy of the bush was based on an extremely reckless gamble , which reflects the political coalition of two main forces : the super-rich and devilish christians . as these policies fail , global financial markets are negatively responding , creating uncertainty for the world economy , and america is not relieved because it is taking a long period of political infighting and stalemate . the super-rich had one main goal : to join the coalition of the bush : the tax cuts , which largely benefited the wealthiest families . evangelicals have been created under the so-called " family values , " meaning that they have been opposed to abortion and gay marriage , and they have promised active government support for religious activities , including direct payments to religious groups of social services provided locally and internationally . the bush team believed that the tax cuts would eventually balance the rich by reducing government spending , but they did not explain it to the public .
some countries with a great eu are on the verge of a recession , but they are not in the world . in the early 1990 " s , japan waited too long , and he missed the right opportunity to act against the countermeasures , so japan has not yet recovered from his stagnation . public investments in infrastructure ( such as the massive expansion of the european rail network ) and climate protection and environmental protection will be needed . in order to strengthen the purchasing power and support for consumption , it is essential to reduce the tax burden on low-income households . member states should , of course , determine the specific form of stabilization programmes for themselves .
for europe , the economic potential of africa remains far from being tapped . the cost of households and businesses estimated at $ 4 billion in 2015 is estimated to be 5.6 billion by 2025 , which is 3.5 % annual growth . moreover , investments in demand for infrastructure in africa will amount to at least $ 150 billion a year over the next decade . africa is also a source of strategic natural resources for emerging low-carbon sectors , and is also a major role in renewable energy . the value of africa as a trading partner and investment partners is not a message for the euro .
a much more competent place holder would be sergei ivanov , a former general of the kgb . but ivanov is much taller than vomiting , which in any case only achieved colonel 's rank . the apparent potential threat to the putin 's power was passed by ivanov , and has since been relegated to the role of russian " main botanist , " which has been supervised by the environment and transport . earlier this month , putin was re-elected - or , rather , crowned - in a spectacular way , with medvedev again , assuming the role of a leading prime minister . although he has worked in office for years , medvedev is still known more for his fancy ties and expensive watches than for his actions .
cambridge - government programs to support retirees are in trouble in all countries , owing to an increase in the hope of life and rising the ratio of retirees to taxpayers . the problem will deteriorate in the coming years , as the negative demographic trend will increase the financial burden of pensions and health care . the problem is very different in the united states , as the " trust fund " system of america , which is funded by social security , will cause a crisis in the exhausted funds . although the options will be different from the choice of other governments , the policy to prevent the crisis is important for other countries facing aging . here 's how the system works : according to the law , the payroll tax is exclusively designed to finance pension benefits .
although scandals have shaken the government , lula has been re-elected last year , and investors are still pouring money into the stock market . one reason is that corruption scandals have given investors the opportunity to see the freedom of speech and democracy in the fight . newspapers and television commentators have been constantly reporting scandals , helping to prove that the political system is sufficiently stable to withstand open criticism . lula is still popular with brazilians , as his populist rhetoric is showing real sympathy for less affluent people and foreign investors , as he has always alleviated radicalism to accommodate economic reality . he recently criticized bolivian president evo morales 's threats to seize foreign assets for his failure : " radicalism is incompatible with the common sense of what he needs from the people who rule . "
the two american electoral missions , which he himself invited and whose terms he had accepted , had not confirmed the outcome . the bolivian army has not arrested anyone , and they have not been able to defend themselves . true , morales have resigned when the military has told him , and after he has agreed to the demands of demonstrators for a new vote . subsequently , however , the constitutional provisions were respected , but the provisions of the constitution were respected . the constitutional court , which allowed the morals to run , considered the presidential succession law , promised an early election , and the military did not take power .
and they do n't like it - to mobilize the streets - any hint that the clique on top is sticking out of their way . this is a kind of democratic spirit that operates outside the convention , and the election is decided by the government . the company 's social media is very much fuel ( it is a revolutionary phenomenon ) . it is moving very quickly , and it is causing a crisis that will cause it . it 's not always consistent or rational , but it 's not always going to be different .
countries have only had a limited freedom of trade , with a number of exceptions to socially sensitive sectors ( agriculture , textiles , services ) . they could build their own versions of capitalism if they had managed to comply with several simple international rules . the current crisis is showing how far we have come from the model , and how far we have come from it . in particular , financial globalization has played a major role in the context of the old rules . capitalism , when capitalism met us capitalism , with few backup valves in place , gave rise to an explosive mixture .
even if america had no other interest in the middle east , such as israel or nuclear non-proliferation , the balance between imports and exports would not be possible to free us from military spending , which , according to some experts , would amount to $ 50 billion a year - to protect oil routes in the region . at the same time , it is necessary to strengthen america 's negotiating position in world policy . the power stems from asymmetries in interdependence , and the result is that they are not dependent . you and i depend on each other , but if i do n't depend on you , my negotiating power is growing . for decades , we and the saudi arabia have balanced asymmetries , which we have depended on as oil producers , and they have been dependent on us for the ultimate security of the military .
for example , the european commission 's president jean-claude , for example , is openly concerned about the deep differences between members of eu , and asks if " hungarians and rods want the same thing as german and french . " at national level , the lack of political will led to the ven use of referendums such as the french and dutch plebiscites in the treaty establishing a constitution for the euro in 2005 , the electoral vote of the netherlands on the association agreement between eu-ukraine and the referendum to brexit in the last three months . in any case , voters said , " no , " - the results that can be blamed , especially in uk , on the habit of national leaders to blame instead of domestic problems . indeed , the parochialism of europe 's leaders is a major reason why the eu eu eu eu is not in the possession of broad public support . the lack of historical vision among the current generation of political leadership undermines the common sense of common sense of purpose , which is why citizens feel like they belong to the same community , regardless of their national identity .
rence - british politics is always a kind of experimental lab for industrial world . in the 1970 " s , britain was in a place where a leading post-war model of how to manage the economy collapsed . this model was based on a political basis on the creation of consensus and the economic management of key nesian demand . today , the equivalent collapse of the regulation , in which the party , which was styled as a " new job , " has taken a significant role in the markets - especially in the case of largely deregulated financial markets . in 1960 , key policies brought the illusion that everyone was using , with high employment and high wage growth .
the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur . after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . the religious monuments of palestine attract ever more religious tourists from around the world .
as french cities burned , other countries were very strict in judging the country . the bassies have warned tourists and their citizens who live in france ; television programs show hours of footage of burning cars . it seems that governments in other countries have tried to keep themselves away from the problem and fear that the disease they know will spread . but the mayors across europe have responded slightly , feeling and showing solidarity with french colleagues . they know that cities are also vulnerable to violence in cities , if they have social inequality , including marginalised and excluded young people .
the supply of most commodities is expected to increase by more than 2 % annually . otherwise , if china 's commodity intensity is not defined as a commodity consumption , it will fall dramatically , and its demand for commodities will be higher this year than the last year . as long as china 's commodity demand is growing , prices will increase . and the rapid economic growth that china 's leaders must have in order to lift the huge number of people out of poverty - and thus prevent the crisis of legitimacy - is the basis for global food , energy , and mineral prices . for some commodities , such as gold and nuclear energy , the intensity of use has fallen , but for others such as aluminium and coal has increased since 2000 , or as in the case of copper and oil , declines have slowed significantly or stopped at large .
he was diagnosed with cancer this year , and he had to start a campaign to promote social media to find the necessary drugs . the lack of drugs to save lives in venezuela is due to the failure of the government to pay $ 3.5 billion for pharmaceutical imports . the same situation is preceded by the rest of the economy , and it is not possible to act in a similar way . the arrears on imports of food are up to $ 2.4 billion , leading to a significant shortage of basic goods . the default amount of $ 3 billion in the car industry is higher than that , leading to a collapse in transport services due to a lack of spare parts .
and if you want to get the bomb , it 's gon na have to be . while egypt is also in the midst of a disorderly revolution , and it must be a priority for internal change , it is also seeking to gain a more visible and more influential role in the movement of palestine nationals and in the entire region . the " middle east " empire will no longer be a sleeping giant . of course , turkey is less stable than its competitors and partners in the revolutionary process , which does not directly challenge it . after all , the turkey is already a functioning democracy , and it 's not a good thing .
if they are constitutionalised , they will simply implant the idea that the constitution is a declaration of ambition , not a set of enforceable legal rights . it is possible to understand the desire to limit or protect certain forms of human activity from the free market , especially in countries such as the free market , where the animal is still unknown . but in a situation where social life is often - for example , education , health and social services - it is necessary to rapidly change the free market and to make the work of the single possible way to change . state health insurance companies , state guarantees of retirement , etc. are not only uncertain and ineffective , but also contrary to the idea of political reform . these state benefits have little to do with the justice , which their socialist promoters supposedly want , but everything about rent-seeking and corruption .
the films of bolyina , which bring its glittering entertainment far beyond the indian diaspora in the united states and the united kingdom , offer another example . a friend of senegalese told me about his illiterate mother , who takes the bus to david every month to watch the film about the bolycles - she does n't understand the dialogue between the hindi and ca n't read the french subtitles , but she still sees the spirit of the film and understands the story , and people like her look at the indian with the stars in their eyes . a few years ago , a diplomat from the interior of damascus told me that the only public portrait of the portrait , as large as the portraits of president hafez al-assad , was the only one of the bolsuperstar amitabh bachchan . the same effect is on the art of indian music , classical music , and dance . so does the work of indian fashion designers who are now walking around the runways of the world .
the new delhi - barack obama , the sixth american president , who came to india after independence , will arrive at the same time as in the united states and india . some of obama 's closest advisers have resigned and opened an awkward gap in national security and economy - the focus of his meetings with the indian government . the issues of obama 's visit to india are huge and complex , and their solutions are very limited . those related to security in afghanistan and pakistan are treacherous as ever . bilateral economic , trade and currency disagreements may not be as bitter as between china and ours , but they are thorny , and their resolution is not so intractable .
moreover , the use of knowledge technologies is a network effect that is beneficial to the winner-market , so hubs have access to knowledge and power , and less privileged groups , classes , sectors and regions that are struggling to compete with . thanks to social media , the resulting discontent is now spreading faster than ever , and it leads to a devastating policy . this can lead to geopolitical interference , which quickly worsen the scenario of loss , such as the situation already evident in countries affected by water and conflict , where governments are weak or failing . the combination of bad policy and economy in one country can easily cause contagion , as migration is growing in political stress and instability in other countries . last year , 65 million refugees were deployed in the united states , compared to 1.6 million refugees .
many of them have cited the decision of the former british prime minister david cameron to allow scotland 's independence to be referendum in 2014 . however , this process is illegal under the spanish constitution of 1978 , which is based on the principle of law . this constitution marked the passage of dictatorship to democracy and provides a framework for the spain system of law . and , as he specifically states , " it is based on the insoluble unity of the spanish nation , " with sovereignty belonging to " spanish people . " in short , it is a nation of the same origin , indivisible , and one nation is visible .
geneva - the world must stop looking back , and it is not clear . since 2008 , we have lost too much energy to return to the days of rapid economic expansion . the incorrect assumption that the world 's problems after the crisis were only temporary was supported by policies that only brought about the recovery of the workforce , but they did not address key problems such as high unemployment and inequality . the post-crisis period is over , and the " post-crisis world " is coming to us . it is time to adopt a new realistic framework for solutions that will support shared wellbeing in today 's global economy and in the future .
it is notable that , while obama 's condition for the union address was mentioned at least in january 2010 , the address was not mentioned in january 2011 . obama has limited itself to supporting bilateral agreements with colombia and other emerging countries . the regrettable retreat of obama from support for the doha round is due to many factors and fallacies . they highlighted the " open letter to obama , " which i organised and released , as the signature of nearly 50 of today 's most influential experts on trade in the world , urging a presidential shift to doha . the president of america is a prisoner of the labor union of the country , who buys a false story that trade with poor countries is increasing the number of poor people by reducing wages .
some people even predict a double recession , but they do n't know what to do with it . if that happens , the chances of a real failure would be much higher than today . these new concerns are triggered by alarm bells in china , and they do n't know what else . diversification from the dollar 's assets is a recommendation of the day 's day . but this is not an easy task , especially in the short term , but it is not easy to do .
berkeley - investors around the world are increasingly seeking investment opportunities that promise to bring benefits to the environment and social benefits , and also to the return rate on the market . if this trend continues , as environmental or social objectives increase the value of investments , it will strengthen the sustainability of sustainability , which is already gaining momentum among businesses around the world . last year , one of the six dollars of the assets , which was managed by the united states for professional purposes - total of $ 6.6 billion - was allocated to some sustainable investment , especially public funds . some 1,260 companies , which manage assets worth $ 45 billion , are signatories of the " responsible investment principles " of the united states , which recognize factors of environmental , social and governance - and thus long-term health and stability of businesses and markets - as important for investors . one of the signatories , calpers , one of the world 's biggest institutional investors , has taken a step further : it will require all its investment managers to identify and incorporate the factors of the esg into their decisions - a bold move that could change capital markets .
in international politics , the perception of the matter - sometimes even more than reality . today , america 's unipolar moment is over , europe is about to fall , and a new set of powers is rising , bringing its unique views on global affairs . in a way , it might seem like it 's a good thing to do . more diverse perspectives could be a source of multilateral processes , and more comprehensive solutions to global problems could be developed . but this dynamic multi-polar dynamic also causes instability , and it is not a problem .
some of the supermarket chains have even stopped carrying eggs from the hen 's battery . in britain and in some european countries , animal welfare has become politically salient , and pressure has been placed on parliamentary officials . the european union has established a scientific committee for the examination of animal welfare issues in the agricultural holdings , and the committee recommended that the battery cage be banned , as well as other forms of strict detention of pigs and calves . in 1999 , the ban on battery cages was adopted , but in order to ensure that producers had enough time to shut down the equipment they invested in , their implementation was postponed until 1 january 2012 . the british egg industry has accepted this situation and has developed new and less cruel methods of breeding hens .
finally , the same accounts could serve as a vehicle for public policy , but also for public policy . for example , early school leaving could be provided with points for later use in professional training . more broadly , public policy could support individuals throughout their working lives , and instead of helping people to help them with social risks , they could adopt a more effective approach that would suit people 's needs better than the common systems . it may sound like a utopian , but it 's in a way . but when all digital services are increasingly personalised , why should social policy remain limited to philosophy and solutions for the twentieth century ?
it was once said that even mention corruption in some official circles was considered taboo . but corruption is the biggest obstacle to growth and development in many countries , especially when it is a source of resources from the poor . the world bank has insisted that corruption be regarded as cancer and that the fight is synonymous with the fight against poverty . indeed , the outspokenness was a sign of wolfensohn 's tenure . many government ministers , bank officials and representatives of the ngo have heard their blunt criticism and praise .
for example , the creation of g-20 was an impromptu instrument designed to defer real financial reform . in fact , modest measures have been taken to ensure that the global power change is limited to an economic realm , with a difficult core of international relations - peace and security - and only a handful of countries are retained . china is not on the same page as other countries in the area of global institutional reforms . it is a revision of the power of the world 's financial architecture , which seeks to reorganize the forest system of bretton . but it is a status quo in the context of the united nations " system , and it is consistently opposes the expansion of permanent membership of the security council .
it can lead to a crisis , conflict , or a lack of policy decisions . the evidence is based on the fact that the systematic exclusion of sub-groups ( such as ethnicity , race or religion ) is particularly detrimental in this respect . intergenerational mobility is a key indicator of the level of equality between opportunities . increasing inequality in outcomes does not need to lead to a reduction in mobility between generations . whether that is a major factor in whether important tools that support equality in the field of opportunity , especially education and health care , are widely accessible .
the dissemination of information technology and social media means that small investors can use a large range of funds - not mention contacts and expertise . of the roughly 500 crowdfunding platforms that are now being developed , several of them are specifically targeted at clean technologies . finally , eureeca.com took the concept of crowdfunding further than ever , and created the first real global market for crowdinvesting , which offers capital to funded companies . if these platforms were used wisely , they could take advantage of the lack of funds that governments would create by fiscal constraints to facilitate business innovation needed to build a blue economy . other increasingly significant trends - such as co-consumer consumption , wage for use , sharing and leasing - could also bring about the same strong impetus .
bangladesh knows that cholera is too good for the war . in 1971 , the fight broke out when bangladesh , then known as east pakistan , declared independence in pakistan . in the ensuing conflict , refugees ran across the border into neighbouring camps , creating conditions that inevitably caused the outbreak of cholera . the standard of care was inadequate , and the dearth of intravenous drips meant that the solution for rehydration could not be administered in general . as many people lay dying , a pioneering doctor named dilip mahalanabis took a chance in a desperate situation .
madrid - april 22 , 2017 - international earth day - marks a year after the signing of a climate agreement on paris , which entered into force last november 2017 , and has 195 signatories . this multilateral treaty on land marks is still the most important step forward in the global fight against climate change . but the first anniversary of the day has darkened our president 's energy policy . in 2016 , the best year in the world , average temperatures were 0.9 ° c above the average in the twentieth century . the main aim of the agreement is to prevent the average temperature of the world from increasing by 2100 ° c above the level of pre-industrial activity .
the atheistic nature of today 's civilization ( our first atheistic civilization in human history , and the first civilization that embraces the entire planet ) , is deeply consistent with the hypertrophic pursuit of individual interests and individual responsibilities , together with the crisis of global responsibility . could it be that humanity is thinking only of what is in its field of view , and it is not possible to recall what is behind it , not just because of the loss of metaphysical certitude , the loss of god ? and , more importantly , could n't today 's crisis of responsibility and accountability for the world as a whole , and for the future , it would be logical for the modern concept of a world controlled by scientifically identifiable laws , designed for god knows what purpose - that is , a concept that does not challenge the deeper meaning of life and does not give up any metaphysics ? but how to restore a common attitude to what is above us when people across the globe have a different image of what is above , if people everywhere feel the need to stress their " otherness . " is there any point in trying to turn the human mind into the sky when such a turnaround would only exacerbate conflicts on earth among followers of our deities ?
he dropped the glove into the world 's main economies : tell us when coal is released , the subsidies for fossil fuels will be damaged , and the tax will be transferred from income to pollution . these are decisions that will bring the transformation that the world needs , and they will be able to change . at the core of this transformation is an energy transition that has been suspended or suspended in many parts of the world , although it is still underway . it is essential to make more ambitious efforts by providers of energy and major end users , as well as to extend the available and reliable services of clean energy to all who need them . there is also a need to reform the way in which the transition is financed .
the new port - central bank has not seen the current financial crisis since 2007 . in 2007 , the martin čihák reported that 47 central banks " reports on financial stability ( " almost all " ) gave " a positive overall assessment of their financial system . " and yet , although the central banks failed before the crisis , they should play a leading role in preventing the crisis . this conclusion may be contrary to the presumption that the group of squamlakegroup.orgorg [ http : / / squamlakegroup.org ] , a tank of 15 academic financial economists , which i have recently published , has reached , which has set up a financial system . macro-prudential regulators ( government officials , who do not focus on the unity of individual financial institutions , but on the stability of the entire financial system ) , are therefore needed , and central bankers are logical to play this role .
while he was voting during the presidential campaign to end daca , he also admitted that the moral case was to be maintained , and he said he would face a " very difficult " decision . and even after the announcement of the repeal , he declared that he wanted to " resolve the problem with the heart and compassion of the aca . " yet , apparently , he was convinced that the beneficiaries of daca had taken jobs from citizens , and he concluded that the same heart and compassion needed " for unemployed , struggling , and forgotten americans . " unfortunately , the president decided to turn away from the classic american vision , engraved on the pedestal of a statue of liberty in new york harbor , expressed in emma lazarus 's poem , which begins : that credo benefited tens of millions of new recruits , and america has significantly strengthened .
they want to allocated oil and mining concessions effectively and maximize government revenues . trying to do valuable tasks while paying for lower market salaries is wise , but a pound of stupidity . tax collectors , regulators and prosecutors need enough resources to win the battle . amlo 's decision to reduce public servants " salaries has already led many high-ranking officials to seek employment elsewhere . those who have the right to retire are taking it , not waiting for an amlo cut .
in addition , global emissions of co2 in 2012 have reached a record of high emissions . the international energy agency is reporting that global temperatures are on the road to an increase in cellophane ( 6.5-9.5 ° fahrenheit ) above the pre-industrial level - which is far more than two degrees higher than those of scientists who have identified the threshold for which the most disastrous climate change could occur . it is clear that the third industrial revolution is needed to help the world 's most important forces . in order to accelerate energy innovation , creative coalitions between governments , private businesses and civil society groups should be set up in three main areas . the first coalition , which includes a group of governments committed , would seek to reduce renewable energy costs within a decade to fossil fuels .
sao paulo - as well-intentioned gestures go , it is difficult to beat the earth hour . on saturday , 27 , nearly a billion people were shown to be interested in global warming by shutting down the lights for an hour . in a demonstration of official solidarity , the lights were also reflected in many of the world 's most iconic monuments , from the opera house in sydney to the great pyramid in giza , and there was no mention of the forbidden city of beijing , the new york empire building , london 's great ben , the tower of paris , the tower of the iffel tower , and the mound of hong kong and las vegas . what else could be , the hour of the earth is certainly one of the most successful publicity stunts ever dreamed of . first , sydney , australia , in 2007 , was organized by a local chapter of the world fund for wildlife , its popularity and participation ( both individuals and officials ) , which produced an explosion in recent years - so there was barely a single corner of the world that the campaign did not affect .
the british opinion is essentially that the free association of states cooperating in trade is as much of a euro as needs for uk . but britain joined the european community , not just a free-trade area that cameron now seems to want . but the undertow of european skepticism in british politics has never diminished , and cameron 's speech has been obvious . even the superiority of the european union 's law in defined areas has only been accepted by britain , and many others have done so long . cameron , in his speech , could not resist the possibility of a pass in the european court of justice .
the coal is also the main source of carbon dioxide , the main source of climate change , which causes 150,000 premature deaths a year , and threatens to spread the danger of the entire century . coal industry has certainly helped billions of people escape poverty , not least china , where coal production has supported nearly 700 % of the rise in capita income since 1990 . but the health of humans is more threatened in countries where coal is burning . research into the global commission for the economy and climate of last year was calculated that only a particle particle was caused by an early death of 1.23 million premature deaths in china - the world 's highest cost economy - in 2010 . according to estimates for 2012 , 88 % of the deaths related to air pollution are caused by low-income countries , representing 82 % of the population in the world .
but sometimes , this desire seems to be overwhelming in post-modern democracies , all over the world . democracy is now taking on a pop culture of rapid passage of fads ; today 's hysteria-generating pop group is forgotten , and there will be more waiting for them in the wings . in politics , it may be dangerous , because it encourages the decision-making of the base , regardless of the seriousness of the decision , regardless of the circumstances of the public opinion . the challenge for more referenda is reflected in this trend and also fuel it . the referenda is for the most part of the photo , which is the most important .
she might as well say " report for president obama " if she had an open letter , but otherwise ... the best subject line says what the message is about , and signals the desired response : " call for a speech in paris on july 14 . " or , " an investment proposal for your consideration , " or " serve as a reference ? " unfortunately , i have a lot of messages on my head , " update . " if i do n't know the name of the person , i do n't know what society he 's doing .
and yet the changes that are happening at the moment could only turn things around . the octogenarian prime minister , manmohan singh , recently awakened to the desperate need for renewed momentum . economists around the world have noticed that raghuram rajan is the main economist of the ministry of finance . rajan is a great scientist at the academy , a great writer of politics and a former economist in the west . but it is far from clear that son of gandhi , president of the indian national congress and the country 's most powerful politician , shares a single reform agenda .
we have to abandon the popper 's silent assumption that political discourse is aimed at better understanding of reality and rewriting it as a clear requirement . the separation of powers , freedom of speech and free elections can not only guarantee an open society ; it is also necessary to commit a strong commitment to truth . we need to introduce new rules for the area of political discourse , which will be the subject of the new rules . these methods can not be identified by scientific methods , but they should be of a similar nature and must also be based on the fact that the criteria for which political views are assessed are respected . politicians will respect the truth and punish politicians when they catch them in the process of deception .
why do indian athletes do so much in the performance of such a bad performance ? the explanation is from anthropological to racist borderline : indians do n't have genes , build , stamina , climate , whatever . structural and infrastructure explanations : insufficient training facilities , gymnasium , running tracks , equipment , financial resources . we are a developing country , as we say , but it is not just your eyes on him , but also your feet against her , but what you can do with her coach , her running boot , her ergodynamic costume , her titan bow . but these reasons do not want to be done : other developing countries , from jamaica to ethiopia , are regularly taking medals .
as soon as january 1998 , the conservative project of the new american century ( pnac ) sent a letter to president clinton , who urged him to topple saddam hussein . and after the victory of the presidency in 2000 , iraq declared one of the main security priorities . by contrast , the administrative authorities of the bush included ten of the 25 signatories to the founding of the pnac convention , including president bush and donald rumsfeld , as secretary of defense . soon the bush administration became obsessed with supporting the idea that iraq had weapons of mass destruction , though there was no evidence of evidence . in septum 2002 , rumours have received a declassified report on intelligence , saying : " we do n't know exactly how much we do n't know about wmd programs . "
the biggest difference between 2009 and 1979 was created by the revolution itself , and the government was the one who had chosen to make the difference . revolution has brought a new political class into the world , and ireland 's islamic revolution has not been an exception . the irish leadership was formed after the revolution , and there was a narrow ruling layer , and a much wider support group that was entrusted with the administration and political mobilization . in 20 years after khomeini 's death , the composition of this class changed drastically . the clerical elite gradually lost its power to the military-security groups , whose ranks were emerging from president ahmadinejad .
the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur . after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . but we should n't exaggerate the importance of this matter , and we do n't have to .
research shows that many girls around the world - and especially global southern - are simply not prepared for menarche . finally , we need to solve the solutions that are based on facts , but we do n't know what 's going on . too often , biased assumptions lead to policymaking , and they do n't know what to do . the effect of these programs can be dramatic when they develop in a consistent research . for example , a joint study on the menstruation of soas-oxford in uganda found that young girls had often missed school because they did n't have access to clean sanitary products .
economists have long understood that banks are vulnerable to self-fulfilling confidence crises . that lender can be a financial or fiscal one , and both types of green have doubts . if greece 's agreement with eu and imf unravels , the central bank of europe will no longer accept the grey bonds as collateral . and the greek state does not have the right to stand behind the banks . in these circumstances , it would be more surprising if depositors did not rush to collect their funds from the greek banks .
russia , which is almost entirely dependent on energy resources , is a " single crop economy " with corrupt institutions and demographic problems and health problems . president vincent putin 's intervention in neighbouring countries and the middle east and cyber attacks on us and others , although russia is about to make it look great , only to make it worse for the country 's long-term prospects . but in short order , countries that have fallen in the country are more likely to risk and are more dangerous - they are witnessed by the austro-hungarian empire in 1914 . this has created a political problem , and it is a problem for us to understand . first , it is important to resist putin 's challenge to change the game-changing effect of the liberal order after 1945 , which is to be banned from using the force of states to seize territory from neighbors .
the prevention of the collapse of the market will require a strategic solution to the crisis . green needs both money and reforms - quickly and quickly within the eurozone and beyond . governments in athens , brussels and even berlin can not live with a green robe as a failed state and economy . the ongoing poker game between the greek government and the troika ( the euro commission , the central bank of the euro and the international monetary fund ) is a major concern to all sides - and most of the euro is in euro . in the end , it can only end with a renewed bailout of ece or the euro 's fall in disaster .
china 's rise has provided new orbit for many countries around the world - especially developing and emerging economies . china 's exceptional diplomatic skills on the african continent ( and , more and more and more , southeast asia ) have become an alternative hegemonic force - one that does not carry the west 's colonial luggage or moralize democracy and human rights . the president of trump provides china with new opportunities to strengthen its role as a provider of investments , infrastructure and assistance to a range of countries that want to develop . his approach to the ateralists is likely to force us to play catch-up with china , which has remained almost unfettered in its continued efforts to gain the heart and minds of those whose countries are regarded as important , economically and politically important . as a trump of isolationism , other so-called brics - brazil , russia , india and south africa - are also preparing to fill the vacuum .
austin - if you live in the city , you will be a cannibal . that is , at the very least , the metaphor that jean-jacques rousseau preferred , and which cities regarded as a pit of human corruption . rousseau was so convinced that the signs of urbanization were so bad that " he would rather see men grazing on grass on meadow than eating in cities . " urbanization brings people to suffering in the countryside and the people of the city together , their sympathy for others is atrophy . urbanites become the kind of people who are willing to sacrifice themselves to satisfy their appetites : cannibals .
by 2030 , the annual increase in consumption by 20 to 2030 would be 8 % ( compared to 10 % of the last decade ) , and by 2030 , the gradual increase in consumption by 50 % of the percentage of the percentage of the percentage of the percentage of the percentage of the percentage of the percentage of the percentage of the percentage of the percentage of the percentage of the percentage of the percentage of the percentage of the gross domestic product would be transferred to 18 billion dollars per year . in this scenario , chinese consumption would exceed the consumption of the dollar . the question referred at the start of 2019 is what will mean for the global economy if this scenario fails . if the latest guidance of apple points to an across-board reduction in chinese consumption , will american consumers be able to serve as the only engine of the global economy for another decade ? if not , would anyone else be able to fill this role in part ?
at least four " matches " are the basis for the recent global financial crisis , and three of them today are plague porcelain . first , china ( along with europe and many emerging economies ) is suffering from a mismatch of maturity , owing to short-term loans and long-term loans . unlike many emerging economies , china is not fighting a currency currency currency imbalance , thanks to its large foreign-exchange reserves and persistent surplus of current accounts , which make it a net creditor for the rest of the world . china , however , has not avoided a third error between debt and equity : the share of credit to the gdp has doubled over the past decade , from 110 % to 220 % in 2008 , highlighting china 's long-term capital and equity markets . policymakers can not afford to ignore the fourth mismatch - between ultra-low nominal interest rates and a relatively higher return on equity adjusted to risk ( roe ) for investors - which contributed to speculative investments and expansion of wealth and income inequality .
by 2020 , investments in india could be rapidly increased . the events of the last 15 months - starting with a deep flow of oil on the horizon in the gulf of mexico , followed by violence in north africa and tragedy in japan - face the world with a clear choice between costs and risks of traditional energy sources , and the promise and progress of clean energy . in recent decades , europe has been a driving force for modernization of energy . in the coming years , this leadership will need to be helped to capture the benefits of renewable energy from both economic and environmental protection . the european union will continue to benefit from one of the most important new market opportunities in the area of living memory .
even if there is no rate and quotas , trade may be impeded by subsidies , taxes , anti-dumping legislation , restrictions on direct investment and manipulation of exchange rates . protectionism is often disguised as labor , food , environmental , phytosanitary standards , or arguments concerning local requirements , children 's industry , protection of intellectual property , climate policy , dispute resolution , or human rights . human ingenuity does n't seem to know the limits when it comes to the creation of protective barriers . in october 1982 , the french government requested that all japanese vcr imports be imported from the country via itiers , a city of hundreds of miles from the nearest port . this non-tariff barrier to trade remained in force until april 1983 , the effect of which was not achieved .
washington , dc - to defeat populism requires a fundamental reality : the bad economic policy is no longer necessarily a consequence of the government 's loss of power . in fact , it is now entirely possible that irresponsible populists can actually strengthen their chances of re-elected by making wilder and more impossible promises - and causing economic damage . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur .
since then , the financial sector has sought to design instruments that protect against fluctuations in prices , to transform private debt into marketable financial securities and gain access to speculative markets . but these efforts were beneficial for fraud and fraud , and thus supported a wave of new financial crises - in 1992 in the euro , in 1997 , in russia , in 1998 - and in the aftermath of the recession in europe and in the united states in the early 2000 " s. in the last quarter of the 20th century , two other destabilizing developments have emerged : a strong incentive to use debt to boost demand and to move to public debt through private institutions at market prices under the pretext of inflation . these trends have increased the public debt burden , while flooding the global financial system with liquidity , which has been linked to the real economy 's transactions . as a result , global liquidity was twice as valuable as global liquidity .
similarly , the united kingdom has set up a cost-review programme , which has identified 40 major projects for prioritisation , reformed the overall planning processes , and then created a sub-committee for the government to provide a faster supply of projects , thereby reducing infrastructure spending by 15 % . the national public investment system of chuck assesses all public projects proposed by standard forms , procedures and metrics , and rejects them by 35 % . the additional savings opportunities - for 400 billion dollars per year - are more effective in the implementation of infrastructure projects . there is a huge scope for speeding up approval and land acquisition , building contracts to promote innovation and savings and better co-operation with suppliers . in australia , the approval of the new south wales was reduced by 11 % over a year .
you 'll be able to do it soon , and you 'll be able to do it . other categories include business ( for example , employers , industry , and employees ) , biology , space flights , and many others , and they include representations such as graphs , timelines and tables , as well as their link . most things do n't exist in isolation , and they do n't exist in the middle of the world . they have complex relationships with other things , and by representing this information using verbs - for example , " the company that google acquired " against " the company that google competes with " - we can express the world more accurately . and that means better , more meaningful responses , if we 're looking for them .
the european union is now considering legislation that will force the company 's board to maintain a certain proportion of women - up to 60 % . this proposed mandate was born of frustration , and it was not only a matter of fact . last year , the european commission , vice-president of the european parliament , renewed the decision to call for voluntary action . the reding has called on corporations to sign up to 40 % of the women 's board members . the foundation in america has now followed the suit with its own list of " prepared women . "
cambridge - every autumn i teach my students the following question : would it be better to be poor in rich countries or rich in poor countries ? the question is usually called upon by a considerable and inconclusive debate , which is why it is not possible to discuss it . but we can find a more structured and limited solution for which the final answer is . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries .
she saved it because she wanted to have enough money to go to the hospital . given the terrible savings savings since 2007 , the prospect of continuing to low interest rates could also make it even more difficult . in the alternative , low interest rates could be pushed by the fund ( or pension fund ) to buy risky long-term bonds . since these bonds are already aggressively priced , such a move could cause a fall in interest rates . america can also be involved in adding a pension crisis to unemployment problems .
the zambians " success can not compete with the intervention of libya or the drama of the spring of the arab . and yet , what happened in zambia is related to this development - and thus relevant everywhere . what made zambia 's election so important is that the opponent won the competition . indeed , he defeated the incumbent who wanted to keep his job , and who might have been tempted to follow the leadership of the other african leaders in the vote , and simply refused to accept the result . after all , it is not necessary to adopt a smooth transition to power .
russia 's diplomatic weaknesses have been clearly evident in syria , and they have been able to detect them . his use of tough power has won the civil war for president bashar al-assad 's dictatorship , which has shown how the strategic deployment of unrestrained military forces - witness the complete destruction of aleppo - can be a game-changer . but russian is now being put into the local rivalry between syria and turkey , saudi arabia and iran , turkey and kurds , israel and iran . while russia 's neutrality policy enabled russia to maintain dialogue with different parties , it will not do anything to create a new regional order . as it is , syria is the only client in the middle east .
foreign capital was once again flowing with external debt , cut by the repayment schedule . investors were willing to buy even a 100-year bond from a country with eight sovereign defaults over the last two centuries . the enthusiasm of investors and the domestic political honeymoon lasted until the international environment was benign . but when the flood fell in 2018 , the imf had to come back and close the gap in external financing with a stunning $ 50 billion loan program ( which was later raised to 57 billion dollars ) . but the problem of external financing was not temporary , and the electorate of the ard soon began to bristle with reforms that the imf requested .
moreover , alternative approaches to stimulate private demand could have less adverse distributive effects , as mgi has already said . advocates of money from helicopters - directly to the crediting of central banks " funds , or to entrust national treasury institutions to finance infrastructure and other activities related to demand - rightly claim that they have the advantage of direct transfer of money to those who spend them . the appropriate amount of helicopter money program could also increase inflation in a measured way , which would result in a deflationary trap in a similar style . indeed , the increase in demand could lead central banks to open interest rates to historical norms . this could be the result of bubbles of emerging assets that could create and mitigate the pressure of institutional investors who are struggling to find a profit that is needed to meet their pension commitments .
he had visited the haiti for two more months , and he had contributed to a donor conference in april , who had sought to raise the aid and investment of 300 million . in recent times , ban has taken an active role in the crisis in the area of gaz . he regularly defended the rights of the palestinians to the state , but he also condemned the hamas ' rocket attacks on the southern island . during the fight in gaza , he publicly demanded that the war be halted and asked the island to open the border of gaza to help . he also visited the un compound in the middle of gaza to express his serious concern about the explosion .
according to the current economic outlook of the international monetary fund for 2011 , although fluctuations in capital flows worldwide are growing , emerging economies are higher than in developed economies . financial cycles of boom-bust are mainly caused by shocks in developed economies , but they are crucial to emerging markets " economic cycles . moreover , the side-effects of advanced economies " monetary policies are beyond financial shocks . emerging economies also suffer from the effects of external imbalances developed by developed countries - especially the eurozone 's emerging surplus . in recent years , economies of deficit on the eurozone periphery - and recently - have undergone massive external adjustments , while bacteria and netherlands have suffered large surpluses .
first , the unrivalled dominance of egypt 's military and the likelihood of a division of leadership is an untenable violence , especially since the egyptian state is facing terrorism in the 1980 " s and 1990 " s , significantly weakened by the jihadist group 's operational assets . second , the powerful political forces can now be carried out by passion , anger and a sense of victimization , but they will inevitably choose to take part in domestic politics through organized structures and processes . in a country where less than 45 million people are less than 35 years old , no political player can afford a longer impasse . finally , despite significant demographic and economic changes in the egypt , egyptian society is still in the hands of its agrarian character , which favors conciliation and compromise . but even in a political transition to inclusive , whether short or medium term , the egyptians will have to answer the question of whether they have failed for six decades : what is the point ?
the fact that contributed to their demise was a shift in the idea that changed the conflict between the east and west , and thus emphasized the economic system . the transition to more racial democracy in early 1990 to south africa was a more significant step ahead of the rights . but the last decade of the twentieth century has been indelibly tarnished by ethnic cleansing in the past and genocide of rwanda . strong states such as china or russia do not limit themselves to authoritarian rules at home , but also support countries that act in similar ways . the same is true of smaller powers , such as ian and venezuela .
the supply chain can now have as many important international links as domestic , and a substantial share of internal demand is achieved by products produced in part or entirely abroad . as technological innovation is also reducing barriers to entry for both producers and consumers , the expansion of these links is even simpler , and it is increasing the number of spaghetti , which is already essentially a bowl of cross-border relationships and dependencies . these relationships must work effectively on the basis of a cooperative approach , which is considered credible . if not , they will risk a lower level of growth and wellbeing . that 's why the confrontation between us and china has raised concerns about serious damage , especially when it leads to ever-greater protectionism and a broader " trade war . "
if brandon wants to trade with others , he must agree to the rules . once the cold is cold , it will have to decide which economic bloc will adapt and then accept the rules of this bloc . this is not about sovereignty , nor about satray , but about the state of the state . it is simply about whether china 's approach to intellectual property and technology is preferred to move across the west , or europe 's food and agricultural standards . if britain insists on pursuing a purple-minded definition of sovereignty , it will only be grief and isolation .
in the case of us , which is the most progressive tax on income among the main economies , federal tax reforms , which would reduce rates and expand the base , are discussed . structural reforms in europe focus on age of retirement and flexibility in the labour market . the biggest cause of slow economic recovery is the deleveraging of governments , financial institutions and households . but slow growth means lower tax revenues , and more demand for payments to relieve the hardship and push for government budgets . the risk was that reliable and durable recovery would allow banks and households to quickly recover their balance sheets , so that there would be no need for further bailouts .
bucerius later called on this , asking if he would support the attempted coup against hitler in 1944 . bauer then intervened that thadden 's sister was a member of the resistance . but he did not give a direct answer , suggesting he would not fight his sister . however , the dhrendorf insisted that the election decision should be taken by the electorate , not the courts , which declared the communist party illegal . kaul reiterated this idea in a passionate statement ( which was undoubtedly agreed in advance by the east german leaders ) , in order to eliminate the community of west germany from the debate .
liquidity remains limited in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis , while the heritage of which is part of the regulatory regime , which does not benefit from long-term investments . although public infrastructure funding has returned to 2008 , it is not yet funded by new projects . most of the funds have already targeted the existing infrastructure - investments that are considered relatively safe , since they pose a small or zero risk of construction and show their potential for stable cash revenues . to overcome the obstacles to investments , we propose to create an asset category we call " equity in order to achieve a balance sheet . " this class of assets would be among traditional equity and debt , and investors would be able to keep it for 15 years .
washington , dc - belarusian president alexander lukashenko is a master of political survival . but , after 64 % devaluation , it seems that the clock is running out of its long-term bad rule . lukashenko was forced to withdraw russian oil subsidies in 2009 , begging , borrow or steal enough funds to prevent belarus from collapsing . he managed to get an international financial fund to extend the $ 3.4 billion loan , promising an election on the loose , but he was able to burn the bridge with a brutal crackdown when he faced an adverse outcome of the election , and the biggest protests his regime had ever seen . russia has now taken a tougher stance and demands for high loans that are not enough to save the regime .
for example , in the current struggle with google 's government , china 's government seems to think its technologists can provide the means to maintain an old mindset . but fortunately , anyone who has persistence and ability to use a computer , the internet is running like sieve . the great progress of china 's economy in the last 30 years is something that is a chinese party . but the jailing of liu also demonstrates that china 's neglect of human rights is flowing into the rest of the world , along with the mass of chinese goods . indeed , china has become increasingly clear that its economy has opened only to preserve the power of the country 's powerful rulers , not to respect and improve the lives of ordinary chinese .
given these growing concerns , the risks of implementation are now presented in a different way . in the world 's economic forum in january , liu , china 's new prime minister for economic policy , suggested that reforms will be implemented with surprising speed . in a recent signed comment published on the daily basis of people , he also noted that " strengthening the party 's overall leadership is a major issue . " these views do n't come out of the air , they do n't come out of the air . it seems that the main tactician underscores the link between the power of leadership and the pace of reforms .
a similar picture exists in many member countries of the european union , which are home to minorities in rome . there are large socioeconomic differences between most of the population and the roma of europe , or among gypsies , many of whom live in extreme poverty . this constant poverty is still a threat to europe 's prosperity , which would be a tragedy for both roma and non-roma . the situation of 7-9 million roma living on the continent deserves an urgent attention to the leaders of government when they form a policy of expansion . roma is the fastest growing and most vulnerable minority in the continent , and the most vulnerable are the country 's inhabitants .
it 's not going to be like that , it 's not going to be like that . to help us find a solution , we have carried out a pest ( political , economic , sociocultural , and technical analysis ) of the current situation and future prospects of hong kong . the main lesson is that the government is in charge of ensuring order and security . in the framework of " one country , " two systems , hong kong 's own government has the power to address internal security issues . but if its actions are inadequate , it is the right and responsibility of china 's central government to intervene .
in particular , it needs a research and development program , education and social inclusion that could be called upon by a large number of people in all member states . the election of the european parliament is less than four months away from the election . the pro-euro forces need to be able to fight cyclical slowdown , and - above all - to ensure coherence and aggressive policy in addressing the long-term structural problems of the euro . if they fail , the prospect of parliament , dominated by populist forces , will become a reality . and this could mean the start of a slow european disintegration process .
when asked if america was ready to become the second largest world economy , they were reticent . their reaction was understandable : even the possibility of becoming " number two " is a suicide sentence for american politics . elected officials must adapt to different degrees to meet the expectations of those who have put them in office . intellectuals , on the other hand , have a special obligation to think of something unthinkable and speak unspeakable . they should consider all options , even unpleasant , and prepare the population for the development of the future .
the fourth industrial revolution was called the city of mexico - the current period of innovation , in which modern technologies are disrupting the entire economic sector . this week , it is also a theme of a global economic forum meeting in vos , and rightly . in the next few years , the scope and pace of innovation will change the way we produce , distribute and consume . in order to achieve the highest benefits , we must now take steps to prepare our economy and society , focusing on three key areas : education , business environment and connectivity . human capital is essential to the success of the economy , and mexico is no exception .
for example , reducing the tax burden on the part of the payout , which would allow small business owners and entrepreneurs to expand , innovate , and increase competitiveness , thereby strengthening job creation and economic growth , could require a reduction in rents . in fact , italy 's tax system is skewed in favor of savers . 12.5 % of the tax is levied on the gains of capital from government bonds , while entrepreneurs who risk their own capital to start a new business must be paid about 50 % of the cost of the start of the tax . similarly , the real estate tax is about 2 % of the total government 's income compared to 4 % of the oecd - and the government intends to cut it further . and the owner of the land is paying a 15 % tax on rents , while workers who are not skilled pay a 23 % tax on their income .
and although thousands - perhaps tens of thousands - of protesters have gathered in the last few weeks before the supreme court , eight million people have voted for the election in 2015 . the current polls show that the popularity of the pis increased to 40 % - more than twice as much as the popularity of the previous ruling party , the civil platform . this suggests that , although the poles do not agree with judicial reforms , they do not want to risk much for free courts - or generally for democratic principles . the pis chairman jarosław kaczyć can now declare that " the european commission will not violate the will of the poland commission in order to complete reforms ... if we do not reform the judiciary , there will be no point in reforms , because they will soon be abolished by the courts we have now had . " kaczyński knows very well that his party is in charge of the most public support , and the ecj is unlikely to act in time .
tim thought ... hank had a different opinion , " and so forth , as if the three musketeers had been interrogated by the historian 's historian . there is also a routine praise for the two presidents who worked with george w. bush and barack obama , and their frustration with people who have not seen the world in their own way , and they have prevented their solutions , such as sheila 's air of a federal deposit company and various annoying members of congress . the main interest is not so much in the chapters of the narrative , which include the same reasons as in previous books , as in the future 's policy recommendations . it is worth noting that they were able to reach consensus on a radical program . three proposals should be made in particular by policymakers in the united states and elsewhere in a tough way .
the mood for trump is even more unfavorable in the western part of europe . in germany , only 6 % of respondents think he is entitled to hold his office and 91 % consider him arrogant . similarly , 89 % of respondents in the united kingdom think trump is arrogant , and only 50 % of them still believe that we and uk have a special relationship when they are in office . this may help explain why trump 's scheduled visit to uk has been postponed for an indefinite period of time . countries where trump is most extensive are potholes ( 73 % see us favorably ) and hungary countries ( 63 % ) , which are both led by the government 's populist right-wing governments .
in the 16th century , the control of colonies and gold bullion was the edge of the earth ; the seventeenth century was a profit from trade and finance ; the eighteenth-century france gained from its larger population and army , and the british power of the nineteenth-century was based on industrial primacy and navy . conventional wisdom always assumed that the state , with the greatest military force , would prevail , but in an information age , it could be a state ( or a state ) with the best story that would win . today , it is unclear how much energy balance is measured , let alone how to develop a successful survival strategy . in his inaugural speech in 2009 , president barack obama said : " our power is increased by its cautious use ; our security is based on the integrity of our cause , the strength of our example , the temperating characteristics of humility and restraint . " shortly afterwards , secretary of state hill clinton said : " america can not solve the most pressing problems of our own , and the world can not solve them without america .
recently , german finance minister wolfgang schäkäkätchätcherung was a controversial issue , when he apparently inspired this experience and said " france would be happy if anyone could force parliament to reform . " of course , authoritarian systems - no matter how short their short-term successes are in maintaining a line of irresponsible policies - are not sustainable . a lack of liability inevitably leads to corruption and inefficiency - a problem with which china is now struggling . democracies are facing a challenge : to create mechanisms that will enable them to create a sustainable policy , while ensuring democratic processes . the public consensus , which supports difficult reforms in the eastern part of the 1990 " s , demonstrates that voters can understand and accept the offs of tradeoffs , even if they do not see the alternative .
he had to stay in nebraska and help his grandfather save the family farm from the shore , which had already taken one-third of the country . the most important change my father had made was his opinion : he had come to the farm not as a living , but as a family business . he turned to the university of nebraska , where he had received a degree of primary education , obtained hybrid corn and other improved seeds , which the university had developed . then he followed the inputs and weather conditions that were rarely done . my father realized he could n't go alone .
this also means that the new passenger cars , public transport and commercial transport and air transport are subject to strict emission limits of co2 . and it means europe , together with our car industry , will be the first continent of electrics by 2030 . second , europe must lead the responsible use of resources and become a truly circular economy that minimizes waste . today , eight billion tonnes of materials are processed each year for energy or products . only 0.6 billion tonnes - a mere 7.5 % - are produced from recycling .
this trend , which is known by the world economic forum , has created a group of experts and experts to help infuse the substance into foreign policy discussions , which led to the election , including the preparation of a public discussion document . from my point of view , as the only member of the european group , the overarching message should be that we must not understand the " necessary power " as it is now , but as a " necessary partner . " this is not just a question of semantics ; such changes will require us to reconsider its role . but payoff , both for us and for the order of liberal world , would be significant . the key to success will be america 's ability to keep the best - and to abandon the worst - of america 's most american ideas : exploralism .
outsiders misinterpreted this system - " built on a clearly defined system , " as xiang describes it , " the royal legitimacy of the blood line " and " the gentry of scientists to manage state affairs " - as a recipe for stagnation . xiang argues that china 's recent economic growth is merely a " restoration " of success that the country enjoyed before the nineteenth-century western invasion of the country , which disrupted its harmonious system . but the late estimates of maddison 's historical gdp per capita suggest that china 's economic " retardation " began before the west met . from 1500 to 1870 , the income of the capita was barely moved from 600 , while the uk quadrupled ( from 714 to 3,190 dollars ) , and even the spain doubled . thus , china 's political stability and the relative absence of violence have been achieved at the expense of economic dynamism , rather than in accordance with this .
this principle of regional solidarity is extended to the introduction of military hospitals in morocco not only in mali , but also in other conflict areas , such as in the case of jordan , which serve syrian refugees . morocco is in a good position to promote security and development across northwest africa and beyond . political stability , open economy and balanced international relations are increasingly aligned with the interests of both us and the european union . moreover , morocco is a loyal ally , and he 's been standing by us for a long time . the west would do well if he started growing a natural partner in such a dangerous and complex area .
the issue of faculty members , especially in basic sciences , is much more complex . i suspect that the problem is a fundamental difference between women and men , as they approach science as a microcosm of life . most of my colleagues , members of the faculty , are not dependent on muscle-bound , but they show two types of typical male behavior in their scientific careers . the first is the urge to first create completely trivial facts about science . as i grow old , i do n't know why it is so important , but male members of our kind think it is .
this is accompanied by a significant advisory board ( which includes known egyptian sociologist saad eddin ibrahim , french expert on political islam gilles kepel and the addition of leverett , a stockholder of a brooch institution ) , and the sensitivity of minority rights , combined with the fact that the project is national , regional and international . the syria authorities have not yet responded to the tharwa project . it 's probably too early for that game , and i 'm sure it 's too early . but the project seems to represent a type of activity that can help create a vision of change . some of the syrian government might have known about it , but it was n't true .
this growth reflects the flawed economic model of the pre-crisis years , which , according to the growth model , was dependent on the indifference of growth , how sustainable it was and who had benefited from it . if we want to learn anything from the ongoing crisis , we have to ask the right questions . each new bilateral agreement should be assessed in accordance with the new criteria . how long will it be possible to spread evenly and how much macroeconomic benefits will be ? will they facilitate real development and provide dignified opportunities for those who have been displaced from the economy ?
the cambridge - in a euphoric moment that followed the collapse of the soviet union - would not be able to predict that the ukraine - industrialised country with educated workers and vast natural resources - would be stagnation for the next 28 years . in 1991 , the neighbouring poland , which was poorer than the ukraine , was able to triple its own capita gdp ( in purchasing power parity ) for another three decades . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur .
at the moment , consider other major emerging markets , which are now being developed . this currency appreciation has already been carried out , since the second quarter of 2009 , and in some cases it can be said that it is too high ( for example , in the case of brazil ) . these countries , of course , can resist the pressure on their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves , as they did before the global financial crisis . of course , the result is paradoxical : private funds flowing into these countries are recycled into treasury securities by investing in accumulated reserves . why should central banks of emerging countries in the market carry out this special financial intermediation , which is a significant cost , since private funds are higher than reserves ?
the commercial paper market , supported by assets , stopped and special investment vehicles , which were established by banks , so that banks could not get their mortgages out of balance sheets , could no longer be released from the financing . the final blow was that interbank lending , which is the center of the financial system , was disrupted , as banks had to take their resources and fail to trust their counterparties . central banks had to inject unprecedented amounts of money and to extend credit to a range of unprecedented securities to a wider range of institutions than ever before . this has caused the crisis to be more severe than any of the world 's wars . the credit expansion must now be followed by a reduction period , as some new credit instruments and procedures are unsustainable .
if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . trump 's biggest problem is that other signatories to the nuclear agreement for 2015 , which were officially known as a joint comprehensive action plan ( jcpoa ) , have not yet been committed to this agreement . britain , france , germany , russia , china , and china , have also opposed trump 's imposition of crippling economic sanctions against iran . they are committed to maintaining the agreement and doing everything possible to convince irish leaders to keep their compliance . the european signatories have created a special mechanism that will facilitate trade and trade with ireland , while russia and china have expanded their economic and strategic relations with the islamic republic , which will first be the first time the western alliance has joined the forces of the european allies in the western alliance .
the average american pays 15 cents for the comparison , but it 's not going to be a problem . in other words , the world 's poorest people pay the highest energy price . there is an effective solution to this problem : solar-energy technologies are available . according to estimates of the progress of the african panel , poor african households would save 58 dollars per year by putting solar panels on them - money that could be spent on education , health , and productive investments . of course , the companies providing these panels would also benefit from the fact that they would be able to tap into this new market .
this process has been unfolding for centuries , but has accelerated in recent decades , as few selected countries have gained a larger share of total wealth and political influence . today , only 100 companies produce 71 % of greenhouse gas emissions . the richest 10 % of people are responsible for the emissions of around 50 % of the total of the total share of the total share of the total share of the population , while the poorest is producing 10 % of the total share of emissions . political leaders , who do not want to stand up to those who destroy our planet , have put in technological solutions , including geotechnical approaches that promise to suck carbon from the atmosphere . even ipcc included assumptions about these technologies in many of its models , in order to maintain global temperatures above pre-industrial levels , which were not more than 1.5 ° c.
imports are 15 % of the total quantity of fish ( gdp ) . multiply 0.15 by 0.10 ( hypothesized rate ) and you get 1.5 % . allow for a certain substitution of more expensive goods and the number drops below 1 % . and if growth is slowing as a result of higher import costs , the feed may be offset by a slower increase in interest rates . the same can be done by foreign central banks , which are also managed by the bank of central bank .
the possibility of withdrawing citizenship without the presentation of any evidence in the public is one of the reasons why the government could prefer this procedure to arrest and try to assassinate the suspects . but the mere repeal of citizenship does not solve the problem of leaving a suspected terrorist in large , who can carry out an attack elsewhere - unless , as with the exception of sakr , he is killed . the broader question raised by uk 's proposed legislation is a desirable balance between individual rights , including the right to citizenship and public good . suppose the government gets it 19 times from 20 when it relies on suspicion of involvement in terrorist activities in order to withdraw the citizen 's citizenship . if that were the case with the 2013 government 's decision , it would be highly likely that innocent naturalised citizens would be stateless .
as old fossil fuels are shut down and shut down , clean energy production should be replaced , for example , by auctions for renewable energy . china and india should stop building new power plants fired from coal at home , and the countries that export capital , such as china and japan , should stop financing new coal mines in other asian countries such as pakistan and philippines . private businesses will continue to compete intensively to reduce renewable energy systems , including energy production , energy storage , and other uses such as electric vehicles , electric heating and cooking . governments should set limits on emissions and private sector competition for low-cost solutions . the combined government and businesses should finance new research and development , which would lead to even lower costs .
the share of the mikta countries is rapidly economic growth , and they are increasingly influenced by their own borders . they have problems with development , but they are also models of economic dynamism and innovation , which are a major factor in the way that global institutions and rules should be changed . many of their challenges and ambitions are consistent with those of the bickers ( brics , minus russia ) . in alphabet soup of international politics , nine members of the japanese might eventually prove too unwieldy to work . but the main point is that russia 's absence from multilateral measures will be a catalyst for new ideas about global challenges .
it was too small to close the output gap and keep the pressure on demand . much of the " stimulus " was merely funded by increased spending by state governments , which would otherwise be paid . other parts of the stimulus were for individuals , but given the nature of the fiscal package , the transfer and spending were more significant for national debt than for the submission of a budget . when the feed was seen as weak , it launched a strategy of " unconventional monetary policy , " which combined large purchases of long-term securities ( quantitative restrictions ) , and promised to keep short-term federal funds extremely low for a long time . the aim was to encourage portfolio investors to switch to shares and other assets , resulting in an increase in prices that would increase household wealth and consumer spending .
in denmark , my country is not in danger of economic readiness , but it is not a problem . in fact , the danish voters have seen most of the benefits of membership in the euro , as the danish krone has not been linked to the dm , and then the euro , for the last 15 years . the public refusal to grant the euro in the septum 2000 reference was based on the fact that the euro 's supporters did not explain the difference between this uncontested policy and the full participation of the euro . as a result , the denmark may be the last vote , but it is not necessarily necessary to join . despite various initial positions , they have a sweden , a denmark , and uk in common : they prefer the euro to be regarded as a stone in building a single market , not as a stepping stone to closer union .
north korea 's regime is certainly not the only obstacle to international engagement . the conservatives in the united states and south korea may argue that north korea must first go to denuclearization before any economic aid is offered . but there is no reason why international efforts to ensure north korea 's denuclearization must be prevented from pursuing national reform . we do not have to assume that these objectives can not be pursued at the same time . on the contrary , it is possible that north korea 's approval to denounce the country 's failure to make far-reaching changes .
and no one should doubt that the front and the voters mean what they say . the eurozone 's economic and financial malaise , which seems to be unable to address national governments or institutions for eu , is at the core of the eurozone 's political crisis . rather than strengthening solidarity in the euro , economic distress has led to a massive conflict of distribution . once there was a relationship between debtors and creditors . mutual distrust that characterizes this conflict can irreparably damage the spirit of the union and the entire european project .
the larger the market is , the more it will be for the benefit of costs . in addition , the more valuable information products are for consumers , the more they are produced . the standard is a version of the largest market share , which is the easiest to find support for the best of other products ( which , of course , are designed to work with it ) . in the " new economy " sector , which is dominated by economies of scale and consumer economies , the firm , which establishes a leading position in the market , is an almost overwhelming advantage . if its competitors do not take exceptional and extremely costly steps - such as microsoft against the internet , its rival in the market for internet browsers , which will make it difficult to create its internet explorer , and then distribute it for free - the first firm , which will create a dominant position on the market , will benefit from the long term if its industry is in the holding .
that is why member states must lead the main initiative in proposing solutions to them . the most important priority is to create safe and legal paths for refugees to reach europe . this does not mean that all vulnerable migrants are to be admitted to each other . but instead , it should be more generous to determine how many people have to admit and how to implement organized ways to facilitate their entry . such a system would protect migrants and protect the euro ( by allowing them to fully vet the applicants ) .
the behavior of citizens does not seem to have changed dramatically , as well as their responses to the questions referred for a preliminary ruling . three-quarters of americans feel they are connected to their communities and say that life is good or good ; 40 % say working with others is the most important thing they can do . in recent years , america 's political and political institutions have become more polarised than the division of views in the american public . the economic downturn in 2008 has worsened considerably , and the situation has been in a state of crisis . as an editorial in the recent economic year , " america 's political system was designed to make legislation difficult , not easy .
new york - history can be understood at any point as a snapshot , to tell us where we are , or as a moving picture , to tell us not only where we are , but where we are and where we can go . it 's a difference , and it 's a huge difference , but it 's not a problem . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur .
innovation can also lead to a reduction in pollution , which is why it is not possible to reduce pollution . for example , the city 's urban air mobility project , which provides helicopter traffic on demand , will release the well-known innovative capacities of the city and address congestion . initiatives that reduce pollution should be supported by the central government , while ensuring a fair access to services between residents . the third pillar of the strategy is to combat the pollution of the air . this does not necessarily mean that people who have news of global destruction of the environment are not flooded ; on the contrary , such an approach may lead to desensitization .
perhaps , but the conventional solutions have proved unworkable , even disastrous . after several years of such a saudi protectorate over palestinians , there could be a new start to a serious negotiation - perhaps even less , based on the proposals of the crown prince abdullah . the most urgent priority is to deactivate , stabilize , and consolidate the political environment in the interests of palestinian . the key to this is to achieve a saudi protectorate , which is why it is necessary . everything else has failed , and it may be the only option left for both israelis and palestinians .
first , the european financial stability facility must serve as a rescue for the banking system and the member states . this would allow for a restructured state debt without causing a bank crisis . despite this added task , the size of the rescue package may remain the same , since any amount used to recapitalise or liquidate banks would reduce the amount needed by governments . the fact that the banking system is under the supervision of the euro , rather than leaving it to the national authorities , would be a fundamental improvement that would help restore confidence . and it would be worth more to elevate the german public about the real purpose of the rescue operation .
on the contrary , he could bring many alienated young voters against the government , who deserved a cautious respect , but he did not like it much . second , without effective and responsible opposition , governments can become arrogant , careless and focus too much on their own supporters . in this case , it is likely that the leaders of the conservative party 's far-right component will think that they will be able to provide disciplined support for the prime minister david cameron and his policy , as the work can never be won under the influence of the corbyn . third , the uk will face a referendum on membership of the european union in the next year . no one knows what corbyn is going to do , but it is possible to speculate that , like some of the bosses of the trade unions who support him , he could choose that instead of a rich club , he would not be able to agree to the mutual party for further membership .
the bailout was caused by the great losses of aig on derivative transactions with financial institutions , especially with sophisticated players such as golddman 's sant and brian 's santander . after the government 's bailout in septum 2008 , aig 's losses continued to rise , so the government provided substantial amounts of additional capital in two months . at this point , the government asked aig 's derivative counterparties to voluntarily " cut " - that is to accept a discount on the amount owed to them . when some of these parties declined , the government supported and financed aig 's payment of all derivative obligations . the government thought he had a weak hand because he was n't ready to let aig fail .
israel has long ago decided that he is not interested in renewing control over the belt of gaz . in a way , the coup of hamas makes things clearer , and it 's not going to happen . gaza is ruled by a hostile regime , and she is a very hostile regime . the island will feel free to retaliate for cross-border attacks and continue to fire at civilian targets . finally , the world must recognize that the hopes of peace in the 1990 " s were destroyed .
technological innovation and demographics are now the main wind , not the wind , growth , and financial engineering can not save the day . the aberrant period of history is about a hundred years after our civil war , during which energy , electrification , telecommunications and transport companies have fundamentally changed . human lives have become significantly more productive , and life expectancy has increased dramatically . the world population increased by 50 % in the period from 1800 to 1900 , and then more than 50 years later , with economies growing faster than in previous centuries . in the late 1970 " s , growth began to slow in many developed western economies , and president ronald reagan and the federal reserve chair alan greenspan were taking a debt cycle that was highly valued .
the core of the japan political inertia is in the present pseudo-two-party system , which includes ldp and dpj , since the parties " divisions are not consistent with any coherent ideological and political differences . both sides are the conservatives and liberals , the hawks of defense and the doves . the president of dpj ichiro ozawa , who once served as a secretary of ldp , is an example of this confused legacy . unfortunately , the chances of reforms to the ldp , or that dpj will be developed in a responsible government party in the foreseeable future , are slim . japan seems condemned to endure chronic and pointless political warfare until some crisis forces the reindict of political parties in the ideological and political areas .
and since his suspension of parliament has eroded the rebel conservatives who have previously been forced to bring down their government , there is now a greater chance of success . but the government 's decline would not be enough to stop a serious breach of the deal . the rebels " crew would also have to support the creation of a taker government seeking an extension of the break , calling for general elections , and possibly legislative proposals for the second referendum . moreover , the head of the labor party jeremy corbyn , a hardline socialist and a closet brexiteer , insists on leading such a government . that would require conservative rebels , liberal democrats , and also those who had stopped the job in protest against corbyn 's leadership , who would be able to stand behind him - a tall order .
this arrangement also required the usual vigilant internal income service to be played with us . asi 's profits are derived from the intellectual property rights of apple ( ip ) , which are based exclusively on research and development ( most of which are supported by federal government funding ) . therefore , these profits should be taxed in the context of the taxation of the two of us . amazingly , irs choose not to impose an apple obligation on their profits from the ip returned to us-sourced profits . instead , apple charges a symbolic fee for the sale of apple ip rights , which is paid by a small tax on the irs .
each of them gained ( or maintained ) power by polarizing their societies and mobilizing their electoral base . the political style of pekos has enabled modern media , which , by pressing for the audience , simplify and sensationalize the issue . the most exposure is usually achieved by shiny antagonistic statements and positions . this gives confrontational politicians a great advantage and it creates a polarization of electoral votes on which the kos have been fed . this policy strategy is undoubtedly effective , and it is not only about the possibility of implementing it .
this proposal may be amusing , but it is not funny when governments use it as ever more and more to develop complex policies that include science and technology . for example , britons have been told in the summer whether they want to be vaccinated with gene-spliced or genetically modified products ( gm ) , products in fields and foods . to gauge the public opinion of the decision planned this year , whether to allow commercial planting of green crops , the british government sponsored ( at large costs ) a series of public discussions in the country . there were hundreds of other public meetings in the local government and other organizations . the head of the british commission for the organisation of discussions , professor malcolm grant , called them a unique experiment to find out what ordinary people think when they hear all the arguments .
in fact , the kremlin is financing a lot of these parties , but it 's not a problem . lenin once said the capitalists would sell the ropes to hang them . today , europe 's governments seem willing to allow putin to buy votes to destroy them . there are also other supporters of the kremlin , including leading companies who want to return to business as usual with russia , and they apologize to the soviet union , who , after 25 years of collapse , see the possibility of vindication . and , according to public opinion , the polls show that a significant minority of europe 's citizens are being pushed into line with the rhetoric of putin , and that his strategy of division of eu and nato is a real path .
construction projects only claim an average of more than 75 hectares per day . inappropriate agricultural practices are also responsible : a liberal use of synthetic fertilizer , such as the use of organisms inhabited by the soil and changes its structure . it takes millennia for fertile land to form ; in many places , the cloud will be enough to wash it . global demand for food , feed and biomass is growing , and it is increasing the value of the land - which has not escaped international investors ' attention . according to an estimate of the world bank , 10-30 % of the arable land around the world - a land that would be used by millions of small owners , pastoralists and locals - would be affected by large investments .
according to the belief that history will judge the president by using his success in the fight against iran , broder assumes that the war with iran will reignite the american economy . this is a strange idea , given that today 's two ongoing wars have only exacerbated the weaknesses of the economy . the american war against ian is only likely to respond to the blatant and immediate irish challenge to vital interests such as a major terrorist attack , an invasion of allies in the bay , or a breach of the free flow of oil to the west . the irish regime is too astute to cross any of these red lines . ireland , like north korea , will continue to test obama 's ability to build an international alliance aimed at pushing the resistance states .
the imf 's economic framework does not yet provide for anti-cyclical fiscal policies , since the imf continues to be ambivalent about the standard key prescription for the incentive of the economy to economic downturn . in the case of brazil and elsewhere , the imf 's distorted accounting frameworks - what it does and does not count as spending - continue to impede investments that are necessary for the modernisation of public sector businesses and to build a major obstacle to land reform . for example , when government borrows to buy land , it is considered debt , but the settlement transaction , which is sold by mortgage lending , is not recognised . although president germany should not intervene in the country 's day-to-day management , his voice will no doubt be very influential . it 's here that germany should take a break and look at the record .
washington , dc - donald trump has officially been elected as president , but the question of russian intervention in the election is not going to be lost . but one key question is often lost in the confusion : why did russian president vincent putin do it ? of course , it 's not difficult to guess why putin preferred to jump in front of his opponent , the former secretary of state 's state hill clinton . but there is a difference between the hope of an outcome and a great deal of length - and a great risk - to help him achieve it . in our view , the conclusion of intelligence agencies that the kremlin , by helping to jump , has developed its " longstanding desire to undermine liberal democratic order with us-led values , " is not entirely convincing .
in addition , the country is expected to increase by 8-8.5 % in the next fiscal year . no changes in the budget could lead to such significant and unbalanced acceleration in growth . it is fair to say that the statistics department , which is usually used to steal the storm from the budget of this year . but the finance minister arun jaitley 's budget is successful in several fronts - not least in alignment with vision and implementation . in particular , it is developing the government 's vision of a pro-growth programme that enhances the easy implementation of activities in india , while focusing on better delivery mechanisms for social security schemes .
but he also followed a reconciliation diplomatic policy with britain and us and spent considerable resources on being attractive overseas . after the failure of the imperialist regime for greater eastern asia , which was a part of the soft-force anti-euro propaganda , and its defeat in world war ii , japan became a strategy that minimized the military power and relied on a strategic alliance . the only focus of japan 's single focus on economic growth has achieved its goal , but the country has only developed modest military and weak forces . in the first decade , communist china has built its military force , and has also used the silent power of revolutionary doctrine and solidarity of the third world to cultivate allies abroad . but , after the exhaustion of the maoist strategy in the 1970 " s , chinese leaders turned to market mechanisms to promote economic development .
xi 's campaign against corruption has taken a member of the politburo committee , china 's most powerful body . carbon dioxide emissions have also fallen dramatically since the start of this year , and the authorities have clearly demonstrated their way to achieve the target values of carbon-intensity in 2010 . regulatory reforms are beginning to mitigate the risks of shadow banking , and some ghost cities are being revived by market forces . at the forthcoming fifth plenary session , china 's leaders must build on this progress and agree to maintain the momentum of reforms . to succeed , the government must , as xi has said , " gnaw even hard bones " - that is , to overcome the vested interests that resist change .
and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur . after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years .
in keeping with the spirit of times , governments introduce business criteria for measuring efficiency - and generally " success " - public services . this means , in particular , that they set out the objectives of the performance . ministers claim that the crime on the street will be halted by the next spring , or that the proportion of universities that will be held by universities will be increased by 50 % over the course of five years . the waiting lists for the hospital 's beds will be cut by one-third of the time . this method of governance shows that , in the end , we can finally take responsibility for politicians by establishing whether the objectives have been achieved or not .
peru 's president , alan toledo , invented a new sport , a football game in which he plays the only one . instead of kicking the ball , he 's going to win . that explains why , with half the left half of his term , the man who has led the popular movement to the release of former president albert fujimori has only 7 % popularity today - the lowest ranking of all the peruvian leaders since 1980 , when democracy has been restored . toledo assumed that the presidency would plan to dismantle corruption , which marked the government of fujimori , and would end the government of his crooked head of intelligence , vladimiro montesinos . he claimed he would send all dishonest officials to prison - words that would capture the imagination of peruvians who wanted to see criminal politicians in the process .
the mistake of the presidential debate may be that the public opinion will be changed overnight , as president gerald ford has done in his discussion with jimmy carter in 1976 . on the contrary , ronald reagan 's performance in the debate with carter in 1980 is often credited with victory . another event that could change the tables would be " ocosurprise " associated with terrorism , which could change the agenda from the financial crisis to security , the republicans " lawsuit . shortly before the election , osama bin laden released the video , which may have helped president john kerry defeat . from bin laden 's point of view , the bush policy was more useful for his efforts to recruit supporters than kerry could have been .
but i see a practical change in everything that has n't yet been broken . would n't lugovoi 's approach to politics bring an ideal solution to finding an heir to vomiting ? this search threatens to divide the elite of the state . so why not choose a man like lugovoi , who is really what elite means ? let 's compare two possible presidential candidates , in 1999 , in the wake of the complaint and in 2007 in lugovoi .
their mythical tribe was great in the past , so why not try to revive it ? such a thought poses a serious threat to the most vulnerable people in the world . the goal of the united countries , which is to eliminate poverty around 2030 , is to continue economic growth by trade , technological innovation and international cooperation . the improvement of trade barriers , digital mercantilism , and generally undermining the liberal world order , will seriously damage the extreme misery of africa and other developed regions , while coal miners in west virginia will not help them . strong will always be able to do so , but weak will bear the burden of nostalgic protectionism that will erode globalization 's benefits .
some argue that the state - and , by extension , the communist party of china ( cpc ) - must retain a significant role in maintaining social stability that is necessary to sustain economic development . others claim that innovation , which is needed to achieve a high income , is less likely to be a participant in the market and , more like a referee , regulator and arbiter of economic and social priorities . the state is , without doubt , an integral part of china 's development , not only by investing in infrastructure and technology areas , but also by providing a backstop to the development of the market and private sector institutions . state involvement is also needed to help manage inequality and ensure that growth patterns are included , which can not be counted only on the market . moreover , the chinese state has solved coordination problems that can not be easily or effectively managed by devolved markets , especially in developing countries , where market institutions and administrative capacities can be developed at different stages .
but economic urgency is not reflected in the response of the policy , which is painfully slow or lacking . for example , the egypt fiscal deficit will exceed 11 % of the gross domestic product this year . but the leaders of the country have stalled under the conditions of a much-needed international financial loan . the government 's reduction in fuel subsidies was not followed by further reforms , and the required tax increase was postponed shortly after president mohamed morsi announced it . almost all political stakeholders in the egypt , as well as in other countries of the ab , recognize the need for economic reform .
and yet it could have happened very well , and it was n't so easy . the unicef survey of 126 developing countries has shown that , among nearly one-half countries , public spending is reduced , common adjustment measures include wage cuts or caps in the public sector , the withdrawal of food subsidies , and the focus and rationalisation of already undesired social protection systems . these measures are often taken without a thorough examination of the social impact of the measures . how many children will suffer - or die - from a lack of food and health care ? how many children will be given education because teachers are not paid low wages , or simply because poor children have to work to pay their family income ?
indeed , germany 's future could have been played in two ways , and he could have done it . the world is taking a great deal of interest in what scenario is in place . the first scenario is bleak : the german population does not integrate social and economic refugees , the political discontent of the population is growing , and the newcomers are increasingly frustrated by their misery . any steps they take to relieve this frustration of the populists right in the right wing , and they could lead to violence on both sides . if there was a terrorist attack in the worst case - especially the one that could somehow be linked to refugees - the nationalist-populist response would be strong , and the german society would weaken .
by contrast , the military 's decision to allow mubarak loyalists - some riding camels or horses - to attack cairo 's tahrir square and attack thousands of protesters of anti-government demonstrators was a classic " military " move . at this point , democratic transition is likely to require the military to play a more active role in the protection of demonstrators . it is clear that the interest of " military as a institution " depends on the military ability to distinguish the regime from much more . successful political transitions are also useful if more and more citizens feel that they " own " protests and resulting changes . in this context , the demand for immediate resignation of mubarak comes from the tahrir square of cairo , not from the ama administration , a positive development .
of course , they will cooperate closely with the ugandan forces . but does the uganda operation , which is so closely linked to the intervention of the libya , give us the role of police whenever the un or icc - which , without its own police force , is dependent on their members and interstate cooperation - is it necessary to judge them ? given the american reluctance to join the icc ( or to bring its torturers to court ) , such a role would be threatened by an international and internal political attack . however , the scope of cooperation with the icc exceeded the constructive role proposed by the obama administration . america 's politicians are clearly more receptive to the potential of international criminal justice .
so why do n't americans feel more concerned about the growing inequality in their country 's income ? part of the reason they do n't know most americans do n't know what 's going on . one poll found 19 % of americans think their incomes are one percent of the highest share of income - and 20 % more hope of reaching the highest 1 % . deep inside the american ideology and culture , it is a constellation of faith and attitudes : the belief that the future will be brighter than the present , that what you will achieve with your own hands , that individuals should rely on themselves , not on the state , that people can cross the oceans and mountains , and that they will be better able to live , and that they will succeed with no luck and corruption , but by preparing and industry . these are not the beliefs that would be beneficial to social democracy , but to the extent that they are not respected .
stockholm - our generation has a unique opportunity to get rid of the idea . if we think about it , we can leave our children without anything : no emissions of greenhouse-gas , poverty , and biodiversity loss . that is the way world leaders have set up when they meet in new york on septum 25 in order to achieve sustainable development objectives . 17 objectives are related to the end of poverty and improvement of health to protect the biosphere of the planet and provide energy for all . they came out of the biggest summit in un 's history , the " rio + 20 " conference in 2012 , followed by the biggest consultation that the un has ever done .
so the loudest are often rewarded with megaphone , while less polarizing , less privileged voices are drowned out , even if they provide smart and nuanced perspectives that can really enrich public discussions . if the algorithm does n't do the job of silencing less privileged voices , the online trolls will often step in , they will lead hateful and threatening speech to anyone who will ever choose . women and minorities are most likely to be victims of harassment on the internet , but they can be targeted at everyone . for example , the german who attacked richard gutjahr became a conspiracy theory , and the main cause of intense harassment was two weeks later in two weeks of his presence . victims of harassment on the internet often respond to self-censorship , and many of them , with a sense of security and even self-destructing , are completely excluded from the social media .
africans are barely counting on american politics , but they do n't know what they 're doing . africans do n't vote , they do n't buy us any products , they do n't threaten violence . they 're just poor , hungry , and they 're on their way out of the way . only a few rich countries will do better than we do , and we will be able to do so . i do n't separate america because it is unique in its neglect , but because it is unique in its ability to lead .
as he pointed out in 1932 , " there may be no escape from long-term and possibly endless depression , except for direct intervention in state aid and support for new investments , " which is what the obama administration rightly does . the question of what caused the accident is even more about the debate . the krugman is hampered by the fact that he attributed the crash to " irrationality , " which , as cochrane pointed out , is not a theory . this is because krugman refuses to make a significant difference between risk and uncertainty . in my view , the main contribution of keynes to economic theory was to highlight the " extreme uncertainty about the knowledge we need to make estimates of the possible yield . "
the cape city - today people are too often forced to choose between moral and economic benefits . their options are sometimes mutually exclusive , and they make decisions that make it extremely difficult . but sometimes moral rectitude and economic interest merge , which is an opportunity that must not be missed . this is the case - from the perspective of this archbishop and the former finance minister - with the world 's response to climate change . the moral imperative is undisputed , as climate change , including extreme weather , temperature change , and rising sea levels , is the most important thing for the world 's poor , and they have benefited from the least of the economic activities that have caused it .
and on that day he was so well mourned that his absence seemed to be part of the show that we had forgotten he had n't been with us . the young man , who had spent the journey with the help of captain gutier , was a character from the modiano , who had been paid by his son 's gift . and then there was a rocking of the 1960s , with sad wolf eyes and cheekbones , which were cut by giacometti , a catcher in rye mood , and a melancholy so desperate that he seemed to be sentenced to life on the edge of all the forms of life . he was an excellent artist of french scenes , a chameleon beamed on satellite television , dripping with sweat and real glitz , an artist who confessed to lying . hallyday was a generation of children who watched american gis enter paris and created an american ascendance .
of course , it was a subject of a breakdown and a breakdown , but it was not the subject of a financial crisis that we now see regularly . capitalism , after the post-war period , continued to be fully employed , unemployment often increased by 2 % in europe , north america and japan . the job was then unsecured , and mass poverty was lost in the past . the key to this period of growth and happiness were a strong social system , and in particular the key policy of domestic and foreign economic policy in all major countries in the world . in particular , all developed economies have taken action to ensure high wages , which will guarantee high consumption and thus rapid growth .
we 're interested and connected , but we do n't have to be absorbed . " this seems to reflect the attitude of cameron and former chancellor george osge , which helped set the stage for brexit . in response to the euro crisis , they argued that europe needed more fiscal integration , but without uk , there would be no british financial participation in future rescue operations in the euro . solidarity ( at least the cost of money ) has been stopped in the english channel . but as de gaulle 's statement and may have been slogan , churchill 's statement used the language of political ambiguity .
the west can use pressure on iran and other governments in the future to secure and explain the safety of demonstrators . natan sharansky said this tactic - the west 's follow-up and demand for accountability for the treatment of individual dissenters - helped to break the soviet union . in this crisis , the president should form a united line with the human rights groups , which will advise him to follow , sustain and support the irish , who have been arrested or may be arrested , or even worse . barack obama says america is " standing with " those who support the free assembly . it will be welcomed by the news that people who live under dictatorial regimes will be installed and supported by us , and the opposition leaders and journalists will be languishing in prison supported by us in these countries for the fact that they have just taken part in such protests .
russia 's membership in the world trade organization has the potential to strengthen the rule of law , combat corruption , and to help russia gain a stake in better relations with the rest of the world . the closer ties between russia and the european union are of particular importance to similar reasons . there should also be a certain understanding of what russia and russia have experienced in the last two decades . the loss of a country and a special place in the world is a kind of trauma that could lead to extreme and potentially violent nationalism . russia should be regarded as a major force , meaning consultations on important global issues .
but there was a consensus that the left party could not win or rule with hard-left ideas , and the presidency of lula did not challenge this view . the consensus may have been reflected in the success of lula 's predecessor , fernando henrique cardoso , relative success in privatization and liberalization of the market , and the development of the middle class of the brain . capitalism has become part of the solution , not the main problem . investors take all sorts of risks , but they do n't know what kind of risk they 're going to take . the biggest is not always legal ones that focus on global banks and development agencies , but rather the business risks of companies that fail or collapse .
of course , my lower costs will be reduced by someone else 's revenue - not just apple . one big loser in the world will be freight ( including junkyard , logistics companies and centralized recycling operations ) . when things can be done , used , broken / worn and recycled closer to home , transport needs are significantly reduced . recycled materials must not be delivered to centralized processing centres and then sent to factories . products must not be produced in these factories and then shipped to customers or to the inventory centres .
the long - in 1960 " s , the green revolution , which included the development of varieties of high-yielding crops , expansion of irrigation infrastructure and the expansion of modern fertilizer and pesticides for developing countries , has strengthened agricultural production worldwide . but chronic hunger is still pervasive , especially in developing countries , which are most affected by the lack of crops and volatility in food prices . by 2050 , the total number of people in the world will be more than 9 billion . to achieve food security , it is necessary to ensure that all people have a consistent and affordable access to appropriate nutrients , despite land and water restrictions , climate change , and the growing expansion of sources of low-income diets that are accompanied by rising incomes . the increase in these challenges will not be easy , and the situation will be over .
indeed , for many years , the government 's domestic critics have denounced what they call " putinization . " turkey , not the european union , is now being felt in the world . but history can change quickly , and i 'm sure it will change my mind . in fact , the turkey needs the euro as much as the turkey needs the euro . the euro is for turkey " principle of moderation " and tempting to remain democratic .
on the contrary , the experience suggests that governments often struggle to reconcile public spending with the main or growing problems such as threats to public health until they reach a crisis . more people died of cancer last year than in the fight , and they were n't there . last year 's 580,000 cancer deaths exceed 430,000 deaths in the war , and the gulf war . but government spending on cancer averages about $ 4 billion a year , and that 's why we 're going to spend it . that 's just half a million dollars a year .
a journalist who visited the saudi arabia kingdom recently asked me why five of the six students he had recently spoken to at the university of king sud still did not believe al qaida was responsible for the attack on the world trade center and the pentagon in america . i 'm increasingly concerned about this question , because i have come up with plausible explanations . i believed that the denial of saudi involvement in the attacks reflected our suffering from the dark day . i was hoping that we would have the courage to overcome our humiliation and look at our national psyche and ask why 15 young men attacked america so harshly ? we have n't gotten any closer than we were after the attack , because we ca n't even ask .
moreover , inequality in income has increased , and the global phenomenon of increasing wealth concentration in many countries is very significant . the highest incomes in these countries have largely resulted in political patronage , not from innovation and from hard work . while tunisia was a extreme case of a regime that supported the economic interests of a small group of non-residents , the scheme was widely used . that 's why , in 2012 , the prescription for liberalization and privatization is inappropriate for the world of arab , which is simplified . there is a clear political need for growth strategy , in which the centerpiece is included , not the idea .
but that 's not the case anymore , and that 's why i 'm not here anymore . trump 's recent actions are not just about trade , but also about leaving pax america . few countries are more connected to the post-war order than the german , which , like japan , owes its economic recovery to the rule of trade in 1945 . the german economy is based on export , which means that trade barriers and punitive tariffs imposed on major trading partners are highly vulnerable . trump 's protectionist policies thus challenge the entire german economic model , as it existed since the 1950s .
in the first five-year period , macron should therefore focus on the growth of france 's growth in the gdp to an average of at least 2 % per year and reduce unemployment to 6 % . the easiest way to achieve both objectives would be to focus on where the disproportionately weak side of the country is in contact with other countries . part of the unemployment challenge is bound to cover the hidden costs of the fight . the split has the highest cost of working hours for employees , and the natural consequence is that they hire hire hire them . many french are rightly upset by the growing inequality that labor taxation is much more taxed than capital gains .
in early december 2015 , putin signed a federal budget that predicted an annual increase of 2 % and budget deficit of 0.5 % of the gross domestic product . but the fall in oil prices and the tough economic sanctions imposed by us and europe meant that , after the expiry of the month , the government predicted a 4 % reduction in the budget deficit of 3.5 % of the gross deficit of the budget - and that , after the reduction of the budget of 1 % of the gross amount of gross gross domestic product . according to these figures , russia will spend 70 % of the reserve funds in the last 10 years at the end of this year . if oil prices persist and western economic sanctions remain in force , russia will be out of cash by the end of 2016 . however , the rating of putin 's approval remains at around 80 % .
but of course , libra is sold much more than this one . as one manager of the facebook says , " we want to send money so easily as to send a message . " since this bra is going to take on a private money linked to a basket of stable currencies , how would it work ? if the inhabitants of the village were able to switch pesos to a basket of stable currencies with a single touch of their smartphones , would n't they be able to get into this safe asset at first sight of the domestic economy 's problems ? the standard " effective market " analysis does not help us answer that question , since these flows in perfect markets would be self-repaired .
the recently rising euro also helped to reduce the long-term interest rate of the euro - the key determinant of economic activity - as inflation expectations worsened somewhat in the eurozone . during april , inflation expectations increased , and the euro 's appreciation was more or less concurrent . the yield on the bond of a 10-year german man , which could be expected to be higher due to inflation expectations , was barely moved . this is a big plus for maintaining an economic recovery that is not in place . if the bush , bernanke , or the new secretary of the treasury henry paul paul paul , will cause investors to lose their trust in our financial assets at some point , the euro will help protect the euro 's interest rates from the consequences .
this political entity is an exact counterpart of the political world , which is known as a familiar physical phenomenon of splintering or fissuring . when the pressure is stressed , the large surface is covered with large chunks , but then disintegration is gradually shrinking and smaller . of the six larger eu states , only a fraction of the political system is truly defined in a centralized way . the centralism of poland is close , but there are strong regional differences - three large and quite different imperial systems that have been included in today 's poland in the nineteenth century . it was a mixture of colorful diverse small and medium-size political units of the nineteenth-century mix . the united kingdom is becoming more stable , but today it is dominated by a political party that wants to cancel the act of association 1707 , and in 2014 it will be determined by a scottish referendum .
we believe in banknotes because we all trust the government when we say 100 is 100 , not 10 or 50 . money is therefore about trust , and no society can function without which it is . just as we obey orders of our leaders to fight and die , we trust their judgment , we entrust our careers and money to those who manage citizens and citizens and other banks , as we believe their leaders will be fair to their employees and clients , and we will be able to respect their business practices . we do n't grow up , we do n't want to work for thieves and liars . once the trust breaks down , something bad happens to me , and i 'm not afraid of it .
of course , the soviet union 's ssified structure could not be saved , but , in general , gorbachev 's basic decency was largely peaceful . he created an environment in which radical changes required a compromise , not anger - a sharp contrast to the violent breakup of yugoslavia . like francis and the sanders , gorbachev was a highly unlikely reformer . despite the fact that he had grown up with the help of the kgb , he had not given up his thoughts to the machine , as president vladimir putin clearly did . similarly , the sanders , far from being able to adapt the form of democratic equipment , are seeking to pull the party back to the " social democratic left where it belongs . "
the subsidies for agriculture in america are only doing so , and that 's why it 's not . those who believe there have been negotiations in the world of developing countries in bad faith . which leaves developing countries facing a difficult decision : will they be better off accepting crumbs from them ? no matter how economic it is , today 's journey may be harder than ever : in so many developing countries , democracies are becoming more vibrant , the election will be punished by governments who accept the view that they are more likely to be unfair to trade . it is no surprise that the rich countries " negotiators have a large number of them when they describe the profits of even an imperfect agreement .
princeton - recently , physicists at the great cauldron ( ihc ) - the world 's most powerful particle accelerator , located near geneva in europe 's european research institute for nuclear research - announced that the famous discovery of higgs boson in 2012 was indeed higgs boson . the standard particle physics model is complete , except for one important thing : black holes . four years ago , doomsayers predicted that the lhc would create microscopic black holes that would swallow the earth within months . the nostradamuses of the late day provoked widespread fear , not mention lawsuits , about experiments with high-energy particles . these prophets were not the first , or the last of their kind .
monetary policy has played an important role in the politics of the brazilian republic for a long time . in 1993 , the governments tried to reduce hyperinflation , which reached 2.477 % . the introduction of a " real plan " launched in 1994 managed to reduce annual price growth by 22 % by the following year . the success of the plan , architect , fernando henrique cardoso , former minister of the economy , was twice elected by the president ( 1994 and 1998 ) , which underscored the concerns of price stability . today , when central bankers in developed countries are worried about the threat of deflation , the brazilian politicians are forced to respond to widespread concerns about slowing growth and returning to inflation .
it was no surprise that the atmosphere in the world 's economic forum was bleak . those who believe that globalization , technology and market economy will solve the problems of the world have been somewhat subdued . the most chastened of all were bankers , and they were the ones who were the most proud . compared to the sub-prime crisis , disaster in many financial institutions and weakening stock markets seemed less omniscient than it was before . and not just bankers who were in the davos ' mood this year , but also their regulatory authorities - central bankers .
given the deep sovereign debt crisis on the eurozone 's periphery , government defaults threaten to destroy big banks . the euro central bank has provided banks with a large number of " liquidity " funds that are used to buy even more government debt . this reduces interest rates in the short term , but it will create even greater potential losses in the event of a default . banks and politics are closely linked to all developed economies , and they are not in the past . diamond found that politicians would eventually throw bankers out of the bank - at least in uk .
despite low average growth rates , the lower number of quintile population revenues increased by more than 6 % annually in 2000 , owing to a largely cost-effective social policy . if the government continues to pursue a comprehensive poverty reduction strategy - including better access to health care , financial services and education - the overall productivity of brazil should be improved in the next few years . but even so , brazil has a long way to go , and he 's not going anywhere . for example , anemic investments in traditional infrastructure have become increasingly difficult since 1980 , contributing to waste and efficiency in existing production systems . this could be addressed by the fine-tuning of the division of infrastructure investment and management between public and private sectors , in order to reduce the number of workers in the second place .
in the late 1980s , nearly two-thirds of countries recorded inflation rates above 10 % . according to the latest data , which runs in most countries in juggling or august , 14 cases of inflation are " only " ( red line numbers ) . venezuela ( this year has not published official inflation statistics ) and argentina ( which has not released reliable inflation data for several years ) . the rest are from iran , russia , syria , ukraine and several african countries . the share of countries that record direct discounting of consumer prices in 2015 is higher than those in countries with double-digit inflation ( 7 % of the total ) .
the quick fixes they have so far failed to succeed . in the case of higher education , of course , there is a different option . if there is no sufficient funds , universities can only deteriorate . this has been happening on the european continent since the 1970 " s , but it has been a long way off . the overcrowded classes in often inadequate physical environments without the necessary equipment have led to an ever longer period of study , deterioration in quality , and many of the students and professors " dissatisfaction .
only war bloodshed can be said to be sealed by diplomatic negotiations . the need for kosova to be freed from milosevic 's grip has been so obvious for decades . two million kosmos have suffered from the rule of milosevic in all aspects of their lives , from basic security to education . for years they have tried to express their complaints through peaceful means of life . as a political activist , i have tried to build a philosophy of non-violence , demonstrations , and other forms of peaceful dissent .
the phenomenon has taken many forms , including muslim brotherhood , founded in 1928 . the efforts of the national building along the secular lines were also reflected in the egyptian president gamabdel nasser 's pan-arabism and syrian baath , which resulted in the creation of a united republic of arab , a union between egypt and syria , which lasted between 1958 and 1961 . half a century later , the current revolution in the arab world was not a political tendency , but a broad rejection of corrupt and dysfunctional governments . but when syria was immersed in a brutal civil war , which has already taken over 130 000 lives , the libya is about to collapse , and the egypt return power to the army , and the sacking of the muslim fraternity , the tunisia was the only success . tunisia adopted a new constitution at january 27 , thus clearing the way for the most secular and most beautiful elections in all countries of the region .
berlin - as we eat in a industrialised world , it is unhealthy , unjust and unsustainable . much of the meat we consume is produced in questionable environmental , ethical and social conditions . and now our industrial model of meat production is exported to the world south - especially to india and china - where meat consumption is growing among these countries . the total production of 300 million tonnes of meat is carried out annually , and the combined state of food and agriculture estimates that annual quantities will increase by 455 million tonnes by 2050 , if demand is growing at the current rate . such a large number of meat can only be produced in industry and in high social , political and environmental costs .
cambridge - for some time , we have been in charge of macroeconomic policy , regulations , trade and infrastructure . after examining the first detail , i found that tax cuts were a positive contributor to economic growth . although i have examined the second area in a less detailed manner , the evidence suggests that the regulation is , at best , only a small contributor to growth . the third area is very important , so today 's trade tensions are worrying . the fourth area is only rhetoric : the infrastructure programme is currently not part of the macroeconomic policy repertoire .
as gordon noted , there were long-term productivity dividends associated with urbanization - a trend that could last at least a decade in china . but there will be times when this tailwind will begin to turn into china on the so-called frontier of advanced economies . china will face the same productivity challenges that america and others face . the new focus of chinese politicians on growth based on innovation seems to recognize this risk . without strong innovation , productivity growth will be a battle for the most important part .
however , the plan was planned to further depress economic activity and failed to establish an appropriate basis for the calculation of the amount of debt restructuring needed by puerto rico . unfortunately , the possibility of getting puerto rico 's fiscal ship right now has not been seized . on the contrary , the supervisory board recently confirmed a new tax plan and a deal with the holders of bonds issued by the company 's credit fund , which was issued by puerto rico , which could be deposited into a debt straitjacket for an indefinite period of time . at 17.8 billion , the stock of the bonds ( which are covered by future income tax revenues ) accounts for more than one-third of the total debt in the new tax plan . and the cofina agreement is also part of a larger effort to restructure the debt , which is based on an unrealistic assessment of the economic conditions of the common property .
what effect did the principles of displaced people 's lives have in ten years ? if the results are not sufficient , it is notable that these results are remarkable . we have raised awareness of the displaced people , we have brought changes to government policies and we have increased the amount of dollars to respond to their basic needs . this helped save countless lives , but it was n't just about how many people lived . humanitarian efforts are still being strengthened , including through a new rapid financing mechanism , a response fund for the main crisis .
wearing a watch that costs 200 times more than one that is better to keep time , there 's something else , even if people do n't have it on their hands , which is not a relatively poor country . andrew carnegie , the richest man in the era of veblen , was a blunt blunt object in his judgment . " the man who dies rich , " he says frequently , " he dies in disgrace . " we can adjust this judgment to a man or woman who wears a watch for $ 30,000 , or buy similar luxury items , like $ 12,000 . in fact , such a person says : " i 'm either extremely ignorant or just selfish .
it shows that both " overall " and " average " answers have paradoxical or intuitive consequences . but then all the other answers proposed after the fit revived the problem , and other philosophers began to offer their own solutions . if the reasons and persons could easily be three separate books , what is really important : in 2011 , the first two volumes were published , and the third press appeared when the parody died . in this monumental work , in total of about 900 pages , the idea is a great challenge - almost universal , and many philosophers from david hume - that the reason is to tell us what we want , but we do n't want to know what we want to do . on the contrary , it is possible to argue that desires are irrational , according to the court .
by recognizing mental health and wellness at work , we can also change our homes , schools and communities . the search for mental health care should be routine and unremarkable , since it is necessary to seek treatment of high blood pressure , diabetes or heart condition . in addition , we must limit the mental health of the population , which is often ignored . this is often a problem in low-income communities , where the risk of pathology is increased , and often face the biggest obstacles to care , partly because of the lack of specialized resources available in wealthier areas . there are some innovative approaches to addressing this problem , such as a friendship bench for winter , and i look forward to more knowledge of this project from one of its representatives in the davos .
experts argue that the likelihood of a terrorist attack is small . if the damage caused by the terrorist attack was also small , there would be no problem . but the damage caused by the attack may be huge , as the ports are believed to be one of the few terrorists who smuggle nuclear weapons into us . for this reason , americans ca n't afford to risk even the smallest chance of their ports - the consequences of a mistake are too big to think about . the american public understands this , even if it is not for the president .
but four political developments that have changed the international security agenda will likely change chicago into a top top of its own . first , the revolution in the world of arababis and nato 's military intervention in libya refococated the attention of the alliance to the middle east and north africa . second , the international financial crisis will have a huge impact on the budget of members of the military . third , the secretary of defense robert gates , in a speech last year , has revived the debate about the exchange of burdens and solidarity between the alliance . finally , the first summit of the nato , which will be held in the 13 years in the united states , is not only in the election year , but also in the hometown of president barack obama .
however , small shareholders can not be ignored in terms of climate change : the world 's semi-billion small farms account for 60 % of global agriculture production and provide 80 % of food supplies in developing countries . together they manage vast areas of our planet , 80 % of farmland in sub-saharan africa and asia . can we rely on these farmers , many of whom are desperately poor , to take a leading role in addressing the two challenges of sustainability in food safety and the environment ? can they produce more food while protecting the environment from the outside ? we believe that the answer to both questions is a clear answer to the question of yes .
one of these reforms would be to extend access to foreign investors , which would be the subject of a new strategy . over the last decade , foreign nationals have been banned from investing in more than 40 sectors , which the government has identified as " critical for national security . " this ban , even if it is beneficial for industry workers , has reduced russia 's access to financial markets , and is more important to new technologies that are in line with financial flows . the financial sanctions that followed russia 's forced " reunification with crimea " in 2014 intensified further isolation of russia , as well as its own efforts to retaliate : a series of sweeping trade restrictions , including direct bans on imports of food from the euro union and the us . the lifting of these restrictions would not only lead to immediate boost to the economy , but also to increase long-term growth .
the relationship between the countries of the cee and uk has always been somewhat fraught . in the 1990s , uk was a member of the cee countries , when leaders in france and germany were still very hesitant about enlargement . but uk support was caught : the british leaders , who did not want to accept the long-term objective of " ever-closer union " - which means political unification and shared sovereignty at national and federal level - did not reveal their desire to use the expansion of membership in eu of eu , in order to prevent the deepening of europe 's integration . during the negotiations with the leaders of eu before the referendum , the british prime minister david cameron received an opt-out clause in the event of a decision to proceed to a more close union . if he wins in referendum and convince the voters to stay , he will send a dangerous signal to illiberal politicians in the eastern europe .
and future workers will need training in ethics to help them navigate the world , where human value can not be granted . the teachers who prepare students for this future must now begin with the preparation of the school . business majors should study economic and political history , so that they do n't become blind determinists . economists have to learn from engineering students because they will be engineers who will build future workers . and law students should focus on the intersection of large data and human rights , so they can gain the necessary knowledge to defend people from forces that might be able to transform individuals into disposable parts .
the hierarchy of the upper levels is autocratic and arbitrary ; the lower levels have little cooperation and do not have the right to appeal . serious breaches may lead to a reduction in the number of reprimands or redundancies . in fact , the system has become largely self-regulating , and it is now a matter of fact . in my experience , 99 % of the censorship is taking place with writers and producers . the above mentioned sporadic complaints and warnings allow them to develop intuitive sense of content , so they show that they are free from the outset .
tokyo - japan 's prime minister shinzo abe decided to extend the current diet for 95 days until septum 27 - and to make the longest continuous session of the japanese parliament 's post-war history . the reason is clear : abe is determined to pass a set of national security bills , which will allow the reinterpretation of the constitution of japan , which will allow the country to play a more important role not only in improving its security , but also in the development of world peace . abe 's actions in diet are based on his performance at the recent summit of g-7 in germany , where he broke the japanese tradition . in the past 39 years , japanese representatives of the g-7 focused on economic discussions at these meetings , content to remain silent , as other industrialised world leaders surveyed the political hot places of the planet and recommended action , or more often inaction . but the summit has shown that japan is no longer planning on standing on diplomatic side .
in february 1996 , kohl urged the nato to hold enlargement until russia and the presidential election were over . he ordered ministers not to disclose the matter , and suggested that the talks should not be kept in the hands of the navigation machines themselves . to support this , the chancellor 's first foreign policy activity , which came back from his summer vacation , was a visit to the sick boris yeltsin , with whom he had a friendly relationship with kohl . this visit has brought in another appeal that has not been in a hurry to extend the nato . in the german parliament , the chancellor announced that yeltsin would " renew the necessary dialogue and address specific issues more urgently , such as the naïve enlargement ... and i could not agree with president clinton , president chirac , and the prime minister , that we would not be able to deal with the important nature of the matter - enlargement in some framework , so that the momomomomobilization would not be considered a fiat . "
only this can be explained by recent trends in longevity , body size , durability of organs and chronic diseases . these changes also cause changes in the consciousness of humans , but also in the form of human consciousness . the result is litany of values after the end of the period , which include a stronger emphasis on the freedom of individuals and their personal responsibility . in this world , without utopia , the highest value is freedom for each individual . but as with any change in that size , there are douts in the holdouts .
london - the eurozone 's gravity crisis has finally fallen into the depths of the eurozone . the stakes could not be higher , and the stakes could not be higher . governments and international financial institutions have tried to put together a solution that is extremely limited to political and economic restrictions . there is still a need to answer many questions about the proposal , at least the implementation will be difficult . eurozone leaders must now aim not only to preserve the single currency , but also to increase financial integration in europe .
washington , dc - though most developed world is well concerned about the myriad privacy of large tech and demanding - and securing - for individuals who are entitled to forget , many of the world pose a different question : what about the right to see ? after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur . after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation .
violence associated with drugs has consumed countless victims in afghanistan , burma , colombia , us and mexico . the swiss has re-examined the government 's drug policy with a pragmatic look . health professionals have taken the lead in the campaign to push the government through direct democracy mechanisms to focus on the arrest and suppression of drug users to public health policies based on scientific evidence of what is going on . the swiss has implemented methadone programs , and to prevent the spread of hiv , they have created a needle exchange , including in prison and in large quantities set up safe injection rooms . the iss federal health office has also supervised the experiment to prescribe heroin to people who have lived with opiates for a long time .
washington , dc - the impact that the breakthrough technological progress on the market as artificial intelligence will have on the functioning of our economy and labor markets has been a very important issue for a long time . but jerry kaplan 's recent book does not need to be applied : a guide to wealth and work at an artificial intelligence age has impressed me with the real size of socioeconomic stakes . one of the relatively familiar examples of the impact of the digital revolution on markets is the ability to make huge profits in high-speed trading by being a microsecond " ahead " of everyone else . another option is to discrimination on prices by new electronic market makers , such as uber , which is why every penny of the old theory of microeconomic theory of " consumer surplus . " soon , a new type of machine could be developed , including cars , buses , ships , and hotel rooms .
in a world of limited resources , policymakers must prioritise their investments , including the need to distinguish themselves from the desired ones . to that end , it is essential to find ways to identify and maximize complementarity . about 2.1 billion people around the world do n't have access to safe water , they are readily available at home , and they do n't have a 4.5 billion - they do n't have a safe sanitation , they have a severely undermining health and reduce the pollution of the river . the growing share of the world 's population - including many of the same people - is feeling the effects of environmental degradation and climate change , but it is not possible to find a solution that would be more important at the same time to protect the environment , water supply , and health . global health and protection professionals must cooperate more closely to find a solution - and convince policymakers to follow them .
this is an unwelcome development for software providers , whose business model is based on licences and maintenance fees , not on electricity use . in fact , large companies are vulnerable in almost every area , as start-ups are equipped with better equipment , more competitive , and capable of reaching customers and users everywhere . moreover , disruptive technologies will bring a shift in economic sectors , as well as the fact that television overtook radio , or even more recently , when the media was in the possession of print . businesses in all sectors must now invest in understanding new technologies so that they can take advantage of the opportunity or quickly defend themselves . ceos and other top executives must be technologists or at least technology-savvy , and they constantly assess how innovation will affect the current state , especially their profit pools .
by 2013 , the share of the shares fell to 13.5 % by 2013 . although the development world had 1.7 billion people , 209 million people were hungry . over the last 22 years , the world has managed to feed nearly two billion people - no small prey . the 193 governments of the world will meet in the next year , and by 2030 , they will set up new global targets . the task is the biggest opportunity for this generation to translate high doses into concrete targets .
fifteen people were killed and many more wounded . in the light of the recent memories of the french revolution , the british elite reluctantly agreed to democratize reforms . in the end , the reform act in 1832 abolished rotten branches and extended the franchise to a new middle class ( the working class and women would have to wait ) . the united states also went on , although the industrial period of robin baron in 1870 and 1880 was a period of industrialization . in 1873 , greed and corruption were satiled by mark tain and charles dudley in the book of gilded age .
but thanks to the far-off - and the faragism that has taken over the conservative party - the act of economic self-harm , which is clearly contrary to national interests , is portrayed as a result of the apotheosis of british patriotism . nationalism is not just a british disease : in the west , globalization is considered to be a leader , without a human face , and it is akin to an uncontrollable run . moderate leaders must now respond not only to economic discontent of millions of people who are losing their jobs , but also to cultural pessimism , and to dismiss politicians as " only for themselves , " who are successful in the populist nationalism that is supported by trump cheerleaders and their ilk . but what is worse in britain is a series of gross errors in the decision of political parties during the referendum campaign in 2016 and after . while the defeated party continued to pursue an economic campaign aimed at fear of loss of jobs , the winning departure of the party ended the culture war by exaggerating the concerns of immigration and claiming that patriotic britons should be " taken back . "
a survey of existing laws and regulations found that many of them were contradictory and overlapping . ande proposed the establishment of a new court by amending the constitution of the european communities . it was successful because of strong support for the public in the fight against corruption . the new court is entitled to reconcile or revoke the legislation containing conflicts and duplication . each firm and business association must choose the best strategy and tactics of their country .
how did ukraine get to the state of cynicism , what do you think ? a year ago , everyone gathered on the streets of kiev and knew what we were standing against : a corrupt government seeking to command life and work , and to dispose of the state 's property . if there were official rights , no court could rely on the enforcement of those rights if the rulers considered their interests to be challenged . in order to evict the regime , we believed this form of absolutism would be over . instead , those who benefit from the regime = the bankruptcy insisted that their rights to the stolen property were not infringed .
one community was equipped with continuous access to the micronutrient and protein supplements called the ole . in addition , health care workers were visiting mothers during pregnancy and provided free medical care . another community had the same program , but the micronutrient supplement was not supplied with protein . for children who have been given an ole , the risk of stunting has fallen by more than half . they stayed in school for longer , they learned more , they gained higher results in cognitive tests in adulthood , and they were more likely to be employed in high-pay jobs .
from the first day , the coalition was riven by the feuds . ministers have acted as adversaries , not as partners , but as partners . instead of blaming iliescu for the chaos he left the country , the coalition members blamed each other . it seems like such a squabbling is a post-communist disease , and it 's not a communist disease . popoland , hungary , even russian : in all three cases , the infighting of reformers enabled the communists to regain their power .
although the economy was fully employed , they were rebelling against the status quo , which was called dubious utopias inspired by the fidel castro and china . they were joined by organized trade unions , which helped to reach a critical mass at least temporarily . the difference between that and now is that those who go to the streets to protest against the proposed increase in fuel tax do not come from utopia , but despair . in this sense , the yellow vest is not so different from the french brexit , because it is a crime of shooting at its feet . while the british resorted to the election , the french adopted a mixture of barricades , obstacles and stone .
she remembers everything , and she did n't regret anything , she did n't even know what she was doing . she feels that she has been faithful to her most valuable values and beliefs . and the west undoubtedly did not respond to the entreaty intervention of the arab league , and avoided the replay of srebrenica in north africa . i think he sees the beginning of tribal conflicts and the upcoming competition between the islamic mists , which will overcome one another in the basics of purity . he is concerned about the early violations of human rights , especially about the rights of women , which he fears will multiply .
over the last six months , we have abandoned its four-decade-old policy of engagement with china and adopted a conservation strategy . china is facing an escalating geopolitical competition , and it is seeking to get friends in the area . although china 's charm is very recent , its contours are already clear . the most important feature is trade , and the most important element is trade . china , as a major trading partner of many asian countries , offers attractive trade conditions to its neighbors , as well as with one another .
london - " shorting " is a tactic known among financial cognoscenti . it means betting on an asset with a borrowed money , while expected profit when it comes to its value . speculator can " short " government by borrowing its debt at current prices , hoping to sell it later at lower prices and reduce the difference . for example : in january 1 , 2010 , i think the game will soon be over . i 'm going to borrow a debt of € 10 million from the greek government 's bond in 2016 , which is then sold at € 0.91 , from goldman sec.europa.eu for six months .
indeed , the lack of restrictions enabled the development of dubious journalistic practices . the diverse tribal composition of jordan was reflected in newly established websites , some of which were created by tacit support - and even financing - from security agencies , officials or political groups . moreover , many people have launched a website dedicated to the acquisition of financial resources . they took advantage of the implicit media authority , and they published any potential negative news about individuals or groups with the means and influence of the media , and offered to cancel the story in exchange for paid advertising or direct cash payments . in response to these extortionary practices , king abdullah declared " murder of nature " via the media on the internet and demanded the government to set up a regulatory framework for this new sector .
the poison of terrorism has now been torn into humanitarian work by the tragic bombings of iraq 's mission . they killed dozens of innocent people , including one of the world 's most successful peacemakers , sergio vieira de mello . in particular , president bush said he had decided to wage a war on terrorism . other leaders said the un should not leave its mission , and that it is not necessary to proceed . but the bombing raises questions about the political side that demand answers to the question .
but they are truly illegal residents , as russia 's decision to give russian passports to the residents of these regions is confirmed . russia is now threatening to recognize the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia . if most residents of abkhazia and south ossetia already have russian citizenship , it is clear that the sovereignty of these two regions is fictitious , and that the interim measures are already taken to the full extent of russia 's sovereignty . to strengthen russia 's political influence on the separatist region of george , gazprom , without asking for permission from the democratically elected leaders of george 's government , it began to build a pipeline that connects russia and south ossetia directly . although gas supplies have not been interrupted from tbilisi to southern ossetia , the kremlin must be able to ensure that the integration of this georgia region into russia 's economic system is even more extensive .
at the time , bankers and bosses thought they could control the new chancellor 's vulgar chancellor . and they were convinced that despite hitler 's peculiar behaviour and appearance , he was the best defense against communism . unfortunately , many of today 's elites have not learned anything from history , and they think and act as if they were completely disconnected from each other 's interests and values . as long as trump is good for business , they do n't seem to be afraid that he is the biggest threat to the soul and values of america and its image and interests abroad . of course , he says trump may be too far away from chinese in trade , but at least he 's asking them the right questions .
even more worryingly , the door would open for a provision that would prevent the mining of low-risk data that would drive the advertising online . advertising allows citizens to access information , educational materials , trade channels and entertainment facilities without paying direct payments , and the amount of funds spent on them in europe is growing rapidly . revenue from the sector has been more than quadrupled since 2006 , even as the overall eurozone economy has stagnated . the crackdown on privacy in eu threatens to destroy all of this , but it is not possible . it will not only create administrative burdens by additional costs and bureaucratic burden ; it also provides for the real possibility that the new rules will undermine the business model of many of the most important european businesses online .
the effect of these programs can be dramatic when they develop in a consistent research . for example , a joint study on the menstruation of soas-oxford in uganda found that young girls had often missed school because they did n't have access to clean sanitary products . but when girls were given re-usable sanitary pads and education on menstruation , the attendance of girls increased by 17 % . but the silence surrounding the menstruation process must be interrupted so that women and girls can get the necessary sanitary products at affordable prices . today , a damn good time donates health products - including pads and tampons , diapers and toiletries - to more than a dozen uk centers for asylum seekers every month .
but there were many revolutionaries to rid the prosecutor of the bad prosecutor and cleanse the judiciary . for example , the new law regulating the judiciary has been a demand for revolution since the beginning of the week . the dilemma was that a constitutional court could violate the law and make the effort irrelevant . he had already backed away twice : he had once again tried to withdraw from the government in july 2012 , and he had already put an end to the armed forces of the highest council , and he had to return the elected parliament , and once he had tried to remove the prosecutor by forcing him to send him to the holy see . morsi 's " constitutional declaration " was decisive - though undemocratic , polarizing and politically costly - step to break the impasse .
moreover , it is a betrayal of a long-term commitment to maintain a monetary system based on rules that discourage competitive devaluation of currency . in foreign policy , the secretary of state tillerson confirmed the recovery of the monroe doctrine - the nineteenth-century claim that we were entitled to a primacy in the western hemisphere , which was to prevent european competitors - in the central and southern america , in order to limit china 's growing influence . tillerson 's nostalgia for 1823 was not shared south of the border , where , as one mexican commentator pointed out , the monroe doctrine " served as a justification for gringo intervention , " and where china 's growing engagement is considered to be counterweight to us . the trump government has also revealed a new , more aggressive policy of nuclear power . the nuclear stance review proposes using nuclear strikes to respond to non-nuclear threats and to use new " low yield " nuclear devices that would have supplied the submarine with nuclear bombs equivalent to those who destroyed hiroshima and nagasaki in 1945 .
in other emerging markets , the main challenge is to ensure that all macroeconomic and structural policies are achieved in advance . the governance structure of multilateral institutions such as international monetary funds must be reformed , thus strengthening the legitimacy of emerging markets . otherwise , these institutions will continue to be ineffective in dealing with collective problems related to macroeconomic-policy spillovers and the provision of insurance to crises . politicians in advanced and emerging countries should focus on the underlying failures that destabilize their economy and prevent growth , rather than trying to deal with symptoms of monetary policy or control of capital . if they do not support strong institutional structures at all levels , these measures will be futile in managing capital flows .
the economic problems faced with advanced middle classes are largely due to two factors : a rapid reduction in the number of jobs in the area of white and blue collar to automate and shift in jobs in the middle and lower value for countries with lower labor costs . the latter method of reducing income and wage growth is not only directly applicable in the tradable sector , but also in non-marketable services , owing to the spillover of displaced labor . the result was surplus labor conditions in the medium and lower middle-income range , which did not resemble surplus labor in developing countries at an early stage , where income growth ( sometimes even in the period ) is reduced . the decline in the labor market and the declining minimum wage could also contribute to polarization of pensions , although these are likely to be secondary factors . although the problems faced by the middle class are well documented , we have largely failed to fully recognize the problems of middle-class households , let alone implement effective counter-measures .
zurich - the central bank 's executive director of finland , olli rehn , reiterated his call for a central bank in the euro to review its policy framework in a long period of time . the upcoming change in leadership in this institution - with christina lagarde , the director of international monetary funds since 2011 , which is likely to succeed as president of mario draghi - offers an important opportunity to pay attention to this call . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur .
until recently , such scenarios were unimaginable , and they did not even know what they were doing . for decades , the european union has represented the world 's most successful , stable and predictable area , a place where history has nearly ended . the continent 's peace , the whole and free movement was largely carried out . but there has been dramatic change in the european union , and it is now a reality . one factor is the willingness and ability of vladimir putin 's russian forces to use military forces , economic enforcement , and cyber manipulation to advance the program .
after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . the bat toru is one of many of the world 's most planned infrastructure projects , which are officially regarded as environmentally friendly , despite the risk of serious environmental damage . for example , construction is almost complete on the railway line of kenya 's famous national park , despite public outrage over the impact assessment of the " incomplete and incompetent " environment .
these measures have succeeded in many ways : the monetary expansion has played a major role in the return of the economy . but over time , the capacity of central banks to influence the real economy has declined . today - and in the foreseeable future - domestic inflation is increasingly influenced by global inflation , not local , development , and financial policy ( stability ) , and fiscal policy are much more important than monetary policy . for the ecb , it is a particularly serious task for the task of this task . in contrast to other central banks , the priority of 19 sovereign governments must be taken into account , with little structural or fiscal-policy coordination .
today , the fastest-growing cities are in asia , and they are the most beautiful . beijing is about 10 ° c hotter than the surrounding countryside in the day and 5.5 ° c at night . there are even more dramatic increases in the number of tokyo in the area . in the wind , the temperature rose above the surrounding area of 12.5 oc and reached 40oc - a searing heat that did not only affect the city 's area , but also covered about 8,000 square kilometers . we can see the real effect of urban heat island .
some people have seen these changes , and they have been worried about them for a long time . a growing minority has begun to pursue intense physical activity in fields and factories , but in leisure facilities . sweat on his forehead was no longer associated with productive work , but with consumption - often conspicuous consumption . gyms have become a new source of the company 's resources , and they have become a source of the company . and as the co-workers began to work together , enlightened employers found that they were a valuable source of physical and mental health .
32 referenda are required in 18 countries instead of foreign relations . some , such as danish party , want to follow the leadership of the united kingdom and vote on membership in eu . others want to escape from the eurozone , to block the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states or limit labor mobility . the refugee scheme for the transfer of refugees to the eu site has proved to be particularly divisive . hungarian prime minister vktor orbán said he would hold a referendum on the proposed quotas .
since the start of the presidency , obama 's defense of liberal trade has been inadequate . he has repeatedly said exports are good for us . but exports are imports from other countries , so obama 's argument is that others should lose their jobs . he must remind americans that imports are good : he can surely ask his audience to consider jobs in the most important aircraft , cargo trains and trucks carrying imports into the american interior . but the main problem is that obama could not stand up to us , and to rest , we were afraid of trade with the labor unions .
ury ( who earned money ) was an insult to god , but he was n't a good man . it was only in the 18th century that greed had become morally respectable . now it was considered a healthy promethean to make money and put them in work to make more money , as this one was a good thing for humanity . this inspired the american way of life , where money is always talking about it . capitalism 's end means just an end to the urge to listen .
instead of focusing on treatment , the polish government decided to prioritise long-term rehabilitation centers located in the country 's depths , which have little to do with evidence of medicine . poland also chooses to treat even the smallest amount of drugs as a criminal , which is evidence that 60 % of the people sentenced to possession of marijuana are smokers . but the use of drugs by criminalization and rehabilitation centres does not limit demand , and the use of drugs has failed . by driving users underground , criminalization is contributing to a deepening of the public health crisis . this pattern is continuing across central and eastern europe , where governments have decided to trap drug users .
frankfurt - europe 's central bank is in the midst of a big risky experiment . the key interest rates have remained close to zero for six years , and the interest rate has not changed . financial markets are flooded with liquidity , and they have a great deal of money . the crisis management has caused serious market distortions , and some segments have no longer been explained by basic economic data . the unintended consequences of this policy are increasingly visible - and will be increasingly evident with the fact that the federal reserve will be released from the post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy .
the alliance has become a real security management organization , flexible , effective and effective . the threats have changed , they have become more global and we have changed to meet them . nato is developing a capacity to defend the ballots of missiles to protect the population and territory of the euro before the threat of serious and growing . in the indian ocean , nato is cooperating with the european union and many others on the main coastal lanes that threaten pirates . and in countries around the world , it carries out tasks such as the elimination of mining , the relief of disasters , advice on how to bring military forces under democratic control and to work closely with the un to prevent children from being harmed .
in support of the sale , the buyer is exempt from the sale and excise duty ( $ 6,000 - 10,000 for each vehicle ) . and , in anticipation of the eventual replacement of conventional motor vehicles , the authorities provide generous support for domestic production . meanwhile , the trump administration is trying to reverse the clock by betting on the resuscitation of the dying and deadly fossil fuel industry . trump described the transition to electric vehicles as a killer of jobs , and recommended ending federal subsidies that support domestic development , production and purchase , for example , for example , for example , for the $ 7,500 federal tax credit for consumers . china 's reliance on fossil fuels has left it in a deep hole in the environment , but its leaders are determined to step out .
if this is non-discriminatory , these frontier pricing would increase global wellbeing and would be in line with world trade rules . in practice , however , it would be difficult to calculate the appropriate tax . for example , it would require the calculation of the tax equivalent corresponding to the ceilings for the legislation . the measure may also call on countries such as the united states to retaliate with harmful measures , which make it a little dangerous . moreover , the tax would have a regressive distributive effect , and the most damaging would be to the poor .
eurozone countries , together with other countries that want to join the euro in the future ( " eurozone + " ) , could simply choose to use the legal means to strengthen cooperation . ideally , this cooperation would be carried out in the institutional framework of the eu eu eu . if all eurozone members were involved , article 136 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu eu eu treaty could be used to support their actions . article 138 also allows for a unified representation of the eurozone in international monetary funds and in the world bank . the group could then extend cooperation to three other policy areas : the european union 's european union and the european union should adopt a comprehensive strategy for the development of cooperation and cooperation between the various three policy areas of the union and the european union and the european union and the european union and the european union and the european union and the european union and the european union and the council and the council of the european union and the council and the council on the european union and the council and the council on the european union and the council and the council on the european union and the council and the council on the european union and the council and the council on the european union and the council and the council and the council on the european union and the council and the council and the council and the council could therefore provide a broad scope for the cooperation of three other policy areas :
the gunnarsdóttir acknowledges that " everyone has the right to believe what they want , " but she insists , " the rights of children are higher than they can trust . " imam ahmad seddeeq of the island cultural center of ieland has argued that circumcision is part of the muslim faith , and that the law of the gun is " contrary to religious freedom . " the bishop of ieland warned that the ban would effectively change judaism and islam in " criminalised religions , " since anyone who would conduct circumcision could be subject to six years in prison . in addition , both sides are based on their arguments on human rights in the context of complicating the issue . for example , some supporters of the ban have argued that circumcision violates article 5 of the general declaration of human rights ( udhr ) , claiming that " no one will be tortured , cruel , inhuman , or humbled . "
but analysts of policy can not limit themselves to classic nuclear deterrence - punishment and denial - as they assess the possibility of deterrence and discouraging cyberspace . they should also pay attention to the mechanisms of elements of the elements and standards . the compensation may be changed by calculating the cost of a large state , such as china , but it is unlikely to affect the state of north korea , which is not very close to the world economy . however , " permanent engagement " can be used to prevent aid in such difficult cases . of course , entering any adversary 's network and disrupting attacks threatens to escalate .
in order to achieve greater integration , it is also necessary to confirm a more stringent and more stringent pact of stability . the summit of the eu eu eu summit in december was an important step forward in order to deepen the political union and strengthen the governance of the eurozone member states . however , it will be necessary to restore financial stability , such as extending the firepower of the euro financial stability facility . moreover , if we want to strengthen the crisis , it must also be better to balance austerity and pro-growth policies , since the eurozone 's problems can not be solved without growth and employment . in particular , instead of adapting its economic strategies to long-term competitiveness , which is ultimately determined by added value to goods and services .
in 2007 , the volume of shadow banking transactions exceeded the volume of normal banking assets . the financial stability committee estimated that the total shadow banking assets in 2011 were 67 trillion , and we accounted for 23 trillion dollars , the eurozone for 22 trillion dollars , and the uk was worth $ 9 billion . the chinese shadow bank 's total cost of only $ 2.2 trillion is only about $ 2.2 billion . shadow banking in china is dominated by lending to borrowers with higher risk , such as local government institutions , developers of real estate and smes . in the end , it is funded by deposits of banks , banks " products and private equity .
in 2009 , obama imagined a settlement of conflicts by a strong commitment to international society . in 2011 , he claimed that only the will of both sides could be achieved successfully . of course , we ca n't do much to solve the conflict , and we ca n't do much . there is no explanation for the subsequent failure of the middle east , but there are few factors to consider : the increase in asymmetric conflicts in which the traditional use of power is largely ineffective , the more blurred lines between the difficult allies and the intransigent adversaries , and the main political differences between the centrist president and congress , which are dominated by extreme ideas . but obama himself has a great deal of blame on him , and he 's got a lot of blame on him .
as economists , such as mit 's david autor , have shown that this is the result of developing countries , it may be a bad thing for some workers and for some good for profit from the company . but it can be very good for developing countries to support a balanced balance between investment and local business and use the revenue from export growth , which is based on infrastructure and skills . china 's dramatic economic success would not be possible if there were no differences in labor costs at the start of trade . however , in the future , this type of trade will be less important . with wages rising rapidly in china , the benefits of labor costs are rapidly declining .
beijing - how fast does china 's population grow , and what is the lower proportion of people working in the workforce for economic development ? can - and should - do anything , especially for the country 's policy of " one child " to slow down the trend ? today , most demographic forecasts for china are based on the total fertility rate of 1.8 - unchanged for 20 years . but the data from the population survey published by the national statistical office suggests that the tfr has been below 1.5 years , and the newly published report of the united states , the world fertility model 2009 , revised china 's tfr to 1.4 in 2006 , and that it has been placed among low-fertility countries . a long period of low fertility means that china 's population is aging , and growth in the workforce is slowing .
after the monetarist approach failed , some switched to a target rate of inflation . they have repeatedly missed their target , but they have not yet been able to catch up with them . until the 1990 " s , emerging and developing countries have often focused on their exchange rate . many of them have also changed inflation targets , but they are more likely to miss these targets than in developed countries . the problem with these approaches to monetary-policy targets is that , even if the specific numerical target is appropriate in setting out , the subsequent unexpected development is often difficult to live with .
the danger that europe is facing is much greater than the danger posed by the current crisis . the lessons to be drawn from the debacle are that the eurozone must develop insolvency procedures as quickly as possible , thereby preventing other sovereign states from being creditors in the form of a debt mutualization . if the european union 's national governments want to help each other in the crisis , they should provide humanitarian aid unilaterally , without conditionality , and without redemption . if you lend him to him , he wo n't be your friend anymore . if this wisdom is not needed , it will not be possible to keep europe together .
finally , the orbán and his supporters maintain their grip on the power partly by relying on the suppression of gerrymandering and voter ( which is largely affected by hungarians living in western europe ) . trump 's republican party is using similar tactics , and we can use them to use them . orbán is a member of the euro area for eroded hungarian democracy , but he has recently welcomed him in a white house and has described him as " respected throughout europe . " trump and his advisers have clearly learned much about the racist immigration policy and how to destroy democracy . they do n't make america big or good , they do it hungarian .
worse , the orbán destroyed the independence of the hungary public service and thoroughly underestimated the law . trump is doing the same , so the government is losing 94 % of its legal cases . at the same time , trump cleared about 17,000 public officials by shooting at us by the state 's employees , shutting down the government , freezing the salary , creating an atmosphere hostile to honest , open debate about how to formulate and implement policy . by taking administrative agencies into the hands of justice and committing ideological appointments to the judiciary , trump is now in his quest to destroy the law of america . while the orbán applied economic pressure to close the hungarian media , trump described the press as " enemies of people " and threatened to act against critical outlets .
however , it is unclear from the article of ayyadurai , which was used by the data and the model was not verified . folta offers a great deal of work to do with ayyadurai . " if you 've developed an integrated internet data program that 's supposed to predict the munich site , and the program has told you that it 's right in the gulf of mexico , right in florida , it does n't mean munich 's in the gulf of mexico , right in florida . " instead , it means you made a mistake in the program , assumptions or input data , which are all proven . folta continues to keep the data in question , and instead of " publish a map showing that munich is directly in the gulf of mexico , and that he is facing all the data , and that millions of relatively dry germans are claiming to be brilliant .
in other words : europe faces a fundamental problem of collective-action . experience has shown that only acute crises can force europe 's leaders to act together . but in the autumn of 2008 , when the eurozone 's heads of state crisis reached a global financial crisis , they did not consider the creation of a common rescue fund . instead , they set up a set of national measures to stabilize national banking systems . the total commitment was impressive , 20 % of the total amount of gross gross gross gross gross gross gross domestic product .
the war was initiated in 17-day , but the current state quo prevailed . the two sides fought again in 1971 , but the kashmir did not focus . after the civil war , which took place in the west pakistan against the bengali fighters of the east coast , pakistan supported the refugees from the east , india began to support the rebel groups . west pakistan was forced to surrender , and east pakistan became an independent state of bangladesh . then , in 1999 , another indian skirmish was unleashed over kashmir , as pakistan sent troops to the indian district of kargil .
when the hiv was born in 1980 , which compromises the immune system , the tb reemerged and is the killer of the hiv-infected individuals . about 15 million people suffer from hiv and mycobacterium tuberculosis . moreover , tuberculosis is active in the fight against mobilization , resistance to conventional antibiotics and canonical vaccination is being developed , and the diagnosis and determination of susceptibility to drugs is postponed . while pandemics suddenly appear , they spread rapidly , and they raise huge fears of the impending threat , the t-b is slowly expanding , but constantly for thousands of years , waiting patiently for new opportunities . treatment with tb requires at least three doses of tb administered within six months .
the disadvantages of strengthening the european fiscal union are not over yet , and they do not end . paradoxically , continuing to pursue fiscal union would make it increasingly unlikely that political union would be easy , but also a major reason : france . the strongest military force of europe has yet to be fought , and all attempts to bring together the armed forces of the euro have been fought . in 1954 , the national assembly rejected the agreement for the western union 's defense organization . in 2005 , the proposed constitution of the european union , which could be the beginning of the political unification process , rejected .
the inflation targets are now clear and the strategy should be eliminated . central banks must now reconcile the need to maintain price stability and , regardless of whether they are legally required , reduce financial vulnerabilities . this will not be easy , not least because of the new operational burden imposed on many central banks : macro-prudential and microprudential supervision . microprudential supervision , in particular , means the risk of political pressure , intervention in the independence of central banks and policy conflicts , which could affect financial intermediaries " behaviour , and encourage them to take a greater risk . they know their supervisor has powerful tools - such as lower borrowing costs , thereby protecting banks ( at least for a while ) - and a great deal of interest in protecting their reputation .
compared to developed countries , there are unusually large number of small and unproductive businesses with a small number of large and productive businesses . this is not effective , according to standard economic considerations , according to standard economic considerations . if small and non-productive businesses were closed and larger , more productive businesses would hire their employees , total production and wellbeing would increase . this should be automatically achieved by an invisible competition , as more productive businesses should be able to deliver a better product at lower prices , while attracting workers with higher wages . so why does n't it happen in developing countries routinely ? - i do n't know .
as soon as china 's new leadership is formed , the attention of the world focused on president zang zzzzzzina 's successor . but this is misguided , perhaps the most important moment of china 's recent boom and transformation was the 1998 appointment of zhu rongji ( pronounced " joo rong-jee " ) as the prime minister of the state council , the position that once belonged to the xiaoping deng . given the obvious importance of this post in recent years , mr zhu 's choice may be more important than the departure of president jiang from the centre . before he became prime minister , mr zhu , president of china 's central bank , was known as the eight percent annual economic growth of china in the 1990s , and the main idea of a successful fight against inflation . mr zhu was a porcelain welch , a harsh , long-time ceo of the american conglomerate electric - a man celebrated by his candor , global art , and his insistence on performance .
trade between african countries , on the other hand , accounts for only 10-12 % of continent exports and imports . but partly because several african countries have escaped from the global crisis , more investors are focused on business opportunities . by 2050 , the biggest economies of africa should reach more than $ 13 billion , and thus exceed the volume of brazil and russia ( but not china or india ) . for some analysts , the emergence of countries such as brazil is partly due to successful demutualization of their stock exchange . twenty-three bourse is currently operating in africa , and their combined capitalization in the market increased by 245 billion in 2002 to $ 1 trillion ( total 2 % in the world ) , while the world 's fifth largest stock exchange was reached in 2009 .
some countries suffer when skilled workers emigrate to the country , and some countries suffer . but the fact that migrants do not create mechanisms that allow them to use their skills is even more damaging . the doctor should not be driving a cab driver , but he should not be driving . it is not easy to establish national , regional and global standards , but it is absolutely necessary . • to accelerate the eligibility of residence rights and to obtain a citizenship , the commission will also take advantage of the possibility of a residence permit .
fillon will be able to run into an election campaign , and he will be able to run a pro-european platform , as evidenced by his pivot during the second round debates , when he proposes to support the eurozone government . unlike the trump and campaign of the united kingdom for " leave , " the national front has already had a predictable core constituency , which is roughly a quarter of the electorate . the coalition of old french far to the right , and the disaffected voters of working-class voters will not be unannounced or unannounced , as has happened in us and uk . fillon can probably muster the same support as he can , and he can even get a vote from the pen , given that eight percent of the primary voters have been described as national front backers . what is more , political catholic is still attracted to many french voters , and the church wants to lure the catholic away from the front of the state and return to its traditional conservative environment .
generations of poles have taken part in the charity 's charity 's charity 's charity . for years , the poles have ranked owsiak as the greatest moral authority in the country - before the pope . the state media 's story , which is portrayed by its own and civil platform , as the guilty parties behind adamowitz 's murder will only undermine the pis . the kaczy.europa.eu has repeatedly demonstrated his impulsiveness , and he has not yet been able to prove that he is not capable of doing so . he is carrying out his power without taking into account the consequences of his actions .
the last burger you ate may cost you nothing . but what did he get that tomato slice of a burger ? almost anywhere in the world - including in the united states - can be at a shockingly high cost . the terrible wages are just the beginning , and the first one is the beginning . in florida , tomato pickers earn an average of just $ 0.50 per pound ( 145-kilogram ) .
when xi first revealed his slogan after being selected as a new general secretary , he defined it in a simple , accessible way , but generally : " chinese people dream of living the same life as all other people in the world . " xi has n't talked about china 's dream since then - and his silence has caused considerable problems . china 's ever-zealous propaganda officials , who were clearly afraid to prove their loyalty and respect for the new party 's new leader , quickly stole the slogan ; china 's dream replaced the chinese model in official political branding . whatever the new government is doing , it is part of its ambitious efforts to achieve the " chinese dream . " unfortunately , china 's propagandists , who are twice as censorship , have a perverse ability to discredit everything they want to mark .
in fact , they ca n't , because genetic experiments on humans are not possible . even in animals whose genes are more easily explored and understood , such as drosophila , the tiny fruit fly , there is no simple link between gene and behaviour . instead , each characteristic is influenced by a variety of genes , and each characteristic is different . fruit fly genes are surprisingly similar to ours . even a lot of aspects of their behavior are similar to ours , but we do n't know what they 're doing .
it 's gone when a strong esg performance has been a good bonus for investors . pension trustees and fund managers now insist that companies that invest in ethics and transparency are operating , thereby limiting the risk of reputation . therefore , the investment decisions in emerging market funds are increasingly preceded by rigorous esg projections - screenings that , after 34 years of dictatorial rule , the cambodia has no chance of passing . cambodia is currently being stripped of natural resources - including wood , rubber and sand - for private use . environmental degradation - especially deforestation - is accelerating and corruption is being put on the market , with money flowing into opaque sources flowing into casinos , banks and real estate .
simply put , the talk of " brexit " revealed the economic and political mistakes of the euro - and it is not possible to return . robert peston described the " pragmatic opinion of brown " in 2005 , in his biography of the chancellor of the chancellor of the chancellor of the chancellor of the chancellor of the chancellor of the european year of the chancellor of the chancellor of the european year of culture , that instead was a good thing , only if it provided a practical contribution to peace and prosperity to britain . " while the british are particularly open to nationalist nature of their support for the integration of europe , other eu members are less aware of their domestic interests . in the wake of world war ii , the national interests of the european countries were aligned . but efforts to unify political unity have failed in 1954 , highlighting that europe 's integration is a key element of economic common ground .
few in europe define the place as a tool to keep their own against the united states . they see even the euro as a weapon against the dollar and rejoice in the euro when it is strong and weak . the european union found a new " empire of evil " in " terrorist states " and organizations . this is a dangerous situation for people on both sides of the atlantic , who believe in enlightenment and the establishment of liberty . as far as basic values are concerned , there is something like the west .
he 's just a " useful idiot " of kaczyć , trying to win a political victory over a man who poses the greatest threat to his friends . the most sarz-wolski can realistically hope for a government position in the country . he may be replaced by a wide criticism of the foreign minister , a witold waszczykowski . the majority of the pis , as it is possible , hope that a coalition of countries ( such as those controlled by social democrats ) will propose another option for tusks , which member states choose instead of choosing to avoid the escalation of the conflict with the country . in that case , tusk would likely return to domestic politics , where the ninth victory against the pis would be a punishment that kaczyć deserved .
now the place is in the stew of the rainbow , and it 's gone . but this time it 's hard to find a way out of it that offers a second referendum . the renegotiation of the contract is not a question , because it would open the pandora 's box of demands for everyone else . so the problem is with the irish , and they have to solve it . i can not recall the situation in 1992 when most of the danish voters rejected the maastricht treaty .
but the experience of the world suggests that this is a dangerous view of the world . banks were healthy , the process of deleveraging and associated wealth was a weak economy . and the weak economy means more likely than not , but more losses from the bank . the problems are not limited to the two of us , but the problems are not limited . other countries ( such as spain ) have their own real estate crisis , and they do n't know what they are .
but , as the german military forces have increased its ability to provide military forces for the operation of the military , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , no , german policy makers still believe that political and economic influence is more effective than violence , and that it is an instrument of soft-energy , including digital diplomacy . they also want to develop more " networks " national and european policy , taking into account activities and possible contributions from non-state actors . the german policy priorities are likely to remain the main priorities of the german policy , and the eastern and southern neighbors of the continent - from which immediate security risks are most likely to be released . this is a wise choice , and it 's not going to be a good choice .
if the greenback and other countries are to ensure that their citizens " health and prosperity are in the coming decades , they will have to find a way to prevent the current economic activity from increasing the already unsustainable burden on the environment . to this end , environmental resources must be regarded as valuable dowments that can be managed wisely . the unique and breathtaking natural capital of the medarea is one of the biggest benefits - which is why more than 200 million tourists are fed to the region each year and fed by the region 's economy . excessive resources , or even carefully , are not managed , inevitably changing the region 's economic strength . countries with environmental deficits can often fill out a gap in global trade if they can pay the necessary import .
but he must convincingly outline practical strategies to address the most serious problems of south korea , including high unemployment , worsening educational attainment , and the north korean nuclear weapons program . parks once promised to provide loans to families from primary school to college , while challenging that local universities should be more independent . he favors engagement policy and talks to the six-party party so that he can solve the nuclear problems . the presidential election day will be decided by south korea 's voters , who will be the candidate who will be the candidate who will be the candidate who will be the candidate who will be the pragmatic and centrist in the form of partisan or ideologue . the success of park will depend on the effectiveness of the campaign , which will further define its character in these lines .
a fiscal compact , as approved recently , is useful to anchor expectations of future adjustments , but only if the new system is flexible enough to be politically credible . the first gradualism must be called the name of the game , and the first step is to be done . the growth strategy must be adapted to the extent that it is necessary to adapt . revenue will only grow if the tax base - that is , the economy - is growing . this growth requires a higher share of public investment in infrastructure and human capital .
second , the international monetary fund , under the " mutual evaluation process of the g-20 " procedure , suggested that the united states would cut its budget deficit by 3 % of the budget deficit by more than planned - more than $ 400 billion in the next year . the imf believes that the current fiscal plans will deter us from economic growth . recently , the european central bank reiterated its position that serious fiscal consolidation would lead to a sufficient increase in private confidence that spending on private individuals and businesses would be more than offset by lower spending . but the oecd is warning governments not to consolidate too quickly in the slow recovery of the world . america 's biggest trading partners want us to grow up and buy more exports .
i confess that i consider communism 's heritage to be more skeptical . totalitarian pressure has really caused exceptional people like john paul and alexander solzhenitsyn , people whose faith has been bought for freedom of mendacity and solitude . but it did the same thing for andrew sakharov and the holidays of the havel , who defended their highest values in the context of human language and in the language of the language . but most people , under totalitarian dictatorship , were not envious ; it was more of a daily immersion in lies , spiritual depravity , and material corruption . that 's why the post-communist societies do n't show any nobility or disinterest that is seriously contrary to the west .
the evidence clearly shows that direct policies are much more effective in terms of policy . the climate focus of the world bank is also at risk of what the poorest citizens want . when the united states asked nearly 10 million people to set priorities , they emphasized better education and health care , corruption , job creation , and affordable food . global warming has been the last of 16 issues , and it has n't been so easy . the bank has spread a simplified concept of damage to fossil fuels , coal must be banned and " climate support " is a solution .
the latest data for 2014 are considered by the energy agency for 2016 . emissions of co 2 from energy and industry averaged 4.5 tonnes per person ( 32.4 billion tonnes per 7.2 billion people in iea ) , while emissions were nearly four times higher than that , 16.2 tonnes per person ( 320 billion tonnes per person ) . trump is continuing the alleged bias of the agreement on the paris in favor of india , but it does not recognize that india 's emissions per capita are 1.6 tonnes , only a tenth of us . trump is also a source of the green climate fund ( and for some reason it is sneering ) . he claims that we have already paid over $ 1 billion without explaining to the americans and that $ 1 billion is a contribution of $ 3.08 per american .
the general ban on the secretary-general ki moon can speak , convene meetings and propose measures , but his role is more secretary than usual . sometimes , it is akin to a secular pope , the secretary-general of the united states may rule out a weak force of persuasion , but not too strong an economic or military force . what a tough force must be required by members of the member states . and if they do n't agree on the course of the action , it 's hard for the organization to act . as one wag said , " we met the un and we 're here ! "
perhaps for this reason , there was a meeting in astana between presidents of russia and france , the state 's secretary , and presidents of armenia and azerbaijan . this prospect is a great opportunity , and there are serious risks to it . there is no reason for such a meeting to be held for 20 years . the meetings of presidents are , after all , the final negotiating forum and must lead to real and sustainable success . otherwise , it seems that the negotiations will not help to set the level of secrecy - strong undermining the key restraint that prevents the two sides from trying to reach a military solution .
governments in america and europe are found in rough , uncharted waters . if the problem was merely a matter of gross violations of the democratic charter of the us states - it would be possible to consider solutions that have been assessed in months or years by the secretary-general of luis almagro . but venezuela is not just a political problem , but it is a humanitarian disaster of unprecedented proportions . the president of venezuela 's president nicolás maduro , according to the emergency order , and the all-powerful one-party , illegally established constituent assembly , does not take into account the elected national assembly and the ban on opposition political parties . but his bad rule is so bad that the venezuelans are dying of hunger , the health care system has collapsed , and the disease and violence are virtually out of control .
but the pace in which the political world accepts social media has accelerated significantly in recent years . in addition to the wholesale adoption of twitter - modi allies in the network , the parliamentary leader , sushma swaraj and the involvement of organized supporters - the prominent indian politicians of all sides have jumped in . the day after he was elected as president of india , the pranb mukherjee announced that he would open a facebook account to receive and answer public questions . the prime minister of the west bengal mamata banerjee is hosting a popular website that is dedicated to traditional media outlets every day . the same is true of the omar abdullah , the youthful prime minister of jammu and kashmir , who regularly interacts on twitter , and his much older partners of rajasthan and kerala , the ashok gehlot , and the oommen chandy , have also opened up the facebook accounts .
this is because economic development is now less dependent on a particular country and more regional integration , which can prevent the negative effects of globalization 's financial speculation . thus , the world needs to facilitate integration in its regions based on general economic democratization : concentrate currency , free trade , common legal rules , and , above all , common will to set rules for the game according to the interests of the region . only such equal cooperation can provide a solid policy basis for the integration of the population . if the country is subordinated to globalization 's uncontrollable forces , its future is in the hands of foreigners . but in agreement with the opening of regional economies on imports , poor countries and developing countries must be able to provide some means of protecting their new sectors .
when the egyptians came up with mubarak in the januppa , they were confronted with weapons paid for by borrowed money . is it fair to expect the egyptians to pay for their previous repression and repression in the hands of mubarak and his friends ? since this money clearly benefited mubarak , but not his people , should it not be mubarak , rather than his victims , who are responsible for it ? the type of regime mubarak has been running for years , and it is also clear how money is being used . prior to the granting of the loans , the prudent creditor should consider such facts .
maybe these are ideas in korea that think about possible unification , but it 's hard to achieve them . therefore , alternative strategies must be set at a lower level - say , the initial exchange rate , which could be chosen to make east germany a low wage country . even this dream is a dream , as east germany 's wage has increased significantly every year , relative to west germany . at a much worse rate of conversion , we would simply have a faster wage inflation rate . one alternative strategy , which is far from possible , is that the west germany would have predicted the failure of the experiment before it was launched .
the new business in services - 3.6 million , which started last year - is also creating additional employment , partly thanks to the new simplified licensing framework . and online platforms facilitate the increase in consumption while expanding access to the market and financing for smaller businesses . china 's leaders should focus on accelerating and building trends , not on further fiscal and monetary stimulus . public investments are high enough , and their expansion would now be a shift in aggregate demand . and since the corporate sector is already overpaying , the expansion of credit is not safe .
it would be unimaginable that the leaders of the state would continue to act with the planned leadership summit in the june , if the poland was still in a constitutional crisis , and the government would not agree with the rule of law and opinion of a respected international body . it is necessary to remind the hungarians and the poles that russia 's president , vladimir putin , is actively trying to divide and weaken the place and the place . if the euro is to face aggression from the kremlin , it is essential that poland and hungary are respected by the basic values and principles of these groups . however , it is also necessary for the eu itself to create a more comprehensive mechanism for the protection of the rule of law within the union . instead , there are mechanisms for regulating economic policy , environmental protection and the single market .
many fear that fossil fuels will be used by solar geoengineering to prevent emissions cuts . but most scientists do not lead to such interests , and they do not care about them . the vast majority of those who seek out the research of solar geotechnical , or support for its inclusion in discussions about climate policy , are also contributing significantly to a reduction in emissions . it is still highly likely that large fossil companies - from multinational energy companies to regions dependent on coal - will eventually be able to discuss geotechnical issues in order to combat emissions restrictions . but this risk is not enough to leave or suppress research on solar geoengineering .
to achieve this , we would have to subordinate its power to the creation of a new order , as well as at the end of world war ii in 1945 . instead , america succumbed to the temptation of " austerity " to succumb to american influence . the national size of the world 's power is always based on its ability to shape the world . if a great power forgets or loses its ability to act , it will begin to decline . it is almost tempting to think that america 's great , cold war opponent , the soviet union , with its sudden disappearance 15 years ago , left its trojan horse to america - a poisoned gift of ateralism .
industrialised economies must support the oil industry more and ensure that oil production is alleviated . however , for such strategies to work , oil industry must be on board . this means that the involvement of african governments is sincerely needed to find out how best to support national agendas in development and diversification . the upcoming conference and conference of the abu dhabi of international oil and oil , which will be held by the national oil company abu dhabi , will be attended by barkindo and numerous african energy ministers and oil industry leaders , is an ideal opportunity to begin the process . the work with other stakeholders , the campaigners for the sustainable and fair transition , can also achieve something more : to achieve a positive impact on economies that have so far experienced only negative effects of the development of oil supported by oil in the twentieth century .
the economic development of the gaz belt was limited to egyptian law , and the region was affected by the burden of absorbing the refugees from the palestine , who had fled the mandatory palestine in the south , which would later be israel . the access of palestinians to egypt was limited , and most of gaza 's largely unskilled workforce was dependent on the management of the work of the rescue workers , who built and maintained the local refugee camps . in 1967 , all mandatory palestine ( sinai and golan ) were imposed under the military occupation of the island . but , although a third of the west bank was closed to the palestinians , it was enough to make a few thousand jewish settlers , only ten percent of its population was refugees , many of which belonged to their country , and many jobs were available . 70 % of the population of gaza , on the other hand , were refugees who lived in difficult conditions in refugee camps , and were largely dependent on the work of the island .
the second draft of history is often written by the main people themselves , and the most important ones are written by the commission . after world war ii , winston said that history would treat him kindly , as " i suggest he write it . " when the financial crisis began , the same thought might have crossed the minds of hank paulson , ben bernanke and tim geithner , who were the finance minister , the chairman of the federal reserve bank , and the president of the new york city . all three of them had long published memoirs , explaining why they were doing it , and they did n't do what they were doing , and they did n't do it - inevitably , with a degree of self-justification in each case . now , in a decade , all three of them have agreed to what may be described as version 2.1 of this episode 's history .
the aim was not to address the problems directly faced , but to create new and more effective activities that would help to transform debt into assets and to maximize the use of economic capacity . in this sense , east asia 's economy has adopted a process of " creative destruction " described by austrian economist joseph schumpeter , where economic structures constantly revolutionized from within . in addition , the implementation of complementary reforms that facilitate the rapid replacement of old and inefficient growth sources with new and more dynamic growth . for example , china 's agricultural reforms , which were aimed at stimulating cities and village businesses , were partly supported by the economic sector . similarly , china addressed the development of outstanding debt and unfinished construction projects - the result of chronic loss of state businesses and excessive investment in real estate - by implementing institutional reforms that stimulate growth in more dynamic sectors , and thus offset the declining return of soes to capital .
brussels - as protests against china 's crackdown in tibet and debate about the unilateral declaration of independence of kosovo continue to weaken , the injustice of taiwan 's ongoing international isolation has barely moved a little interest , despite the recent presidential election and referendum of the united states . this neglect is not only short-sighted , but it may also be dangerous to see . this seemingly double standard can be explained in part by a sense of guilt : the west has largely embraced the independence of the kosovo in an effort to mitigate its own ability to prevent slobodan milosevic 's ethnic cleansing . similarly , most of the world protest for tibet , as millions of people have witnessed china 's brutal suppression of tibetan culture . on the contrary , taiwan is not paying attention to us , as it is stable and flourishing economically .
many of them now offer their opinion about whether uk should look at the " norway model " of relations with eu or other regime that retains uk 's participation in the single market . whatever the option is , it is clear that britain needs a policy that can lead to broad and genuine support . the second change in the better would be less controversial : reduce the power of uk on non-elected special advisers or advertising , which have become a dominant character in all government departments . during my 17-month experience as a minister , i have become convinced that the excess power of the spad - and haughty - undermines the excellent public service of uk , as well as elected and appointed ministers . may be two main spads , on the hill of fiona and nick timothy , taking this danger to disturbing levels .
indeed , it is known that most of the ingredients used to produce nanomaterials pose a risk to human health . the trend is encouraging that the methods used to produce nanomaterials are often " greener " when they move from the laboratories to industrial production . the elimination of nanomaterials " toxicity , according to preliminary results , suggests that nanomaterials produced are at risk of less than or less comparable to those related to many of the existing industrial activities . it would be naive to imagine nanotechnology being developed without danger to the environment and health of humans . while trying to stop the development of nanotechnology inspired by nanomaterial-based technologies , it would be equally irresponsible , and responsible development of these technologies would require vigilance and social security .
the average annual profit of 150 billion people is currently being produced from forced sexual abuse . with the rapid growth of digital platforms that threaten to make children 's sex more profitable , the world must take an urgent and coordinated action to combat this appalling crime . today , nearly 4.5 billion people have access to the internet . therefore , an unregulated online world is fertile ground for the reaping of huge profits from the trafficking of children 's sex . the potential traffickers need only laptop or smartphone , which has a high-speed internet connection .
we all owe them all , but we do n't have to worry about them . the euro has experienced a tough start , but it is promising to start with it . it should not surprise that the euro began to slide against the dollar , taking into account differences in economic performance between the us and the euro . and it should n't be a surprise that the markets have tested the european political leaders " willingness to keep quiet about monetary affairs . recent intervention and support from america and japan have shown that the euro is here to remain , and that markets believe in its success .
people learned that buying dips paid for it , and that 's why they did n't get rid of it until it was stopped paying . now that the internet fever has ceased , we hear the " basics " are being rewritten . but this view is half true , as the previous idea of the boom would last forever , as the internet economy created new foundations . indeed , the internet boom / bust cycle raises doubts about the prevailing economic theory of financial markets . it should be noted now that the so-called basic principles , which supposedly determine the price of stocks , are not independent .
palo alto - since the toxicology science was developed in the 16th century , its main principle was that " the dose is poison . " it is a rule that applies to medicines used by patients around the world many times a day . the right dose of aspirin may be a therapeutic godsend , but too much of a drug may be fatal . the principle of even food is even valid : a large quantity of nutmeg or licorice is highly toxic . the risk of a substance in principle depends on two factors : its ability to cause damage and its exposure .
given the lack of democratic experience in libya , some see this as a likely outcome in the post-qaddafi era . but libya is not the only country who has tried to move from dictatorship to democracy with weak institutions and strong tribal identities . albania , mongolia and india have successfully completed more complex tests - and they have offered useful lessons in democratic transitions under favourable conditions . the fourth scenario is divided into three parts of the old three-province , the ottoman-style arrangement is commonly mentioned : cyrenaica ( east ) , fezzan ( south ) and tripolitania ( west ) . the cyrenaica is without qaddafi-free , tripolitania is not , and fezzan has not fully joined the revolution .
they propose a reduction in taxes of 5 % of the gross domestic domestic product for all eurozone countries , financed by a highly long-term public debt , and all of which should be purchased by the european ecb . they claim that quantitative easing alone without tax relief would be ineffective . giavazzi and tabellini 's proposals may lead to too much stimulus . but they also point to a fundamental question : how does quantitative easing stimulate the economy ? the bank of england has presented a qe as a purely monetary policy tool that sustains economic growth in the light of the necessary and desirable consolidation of fiscal resources .
it is never important to note that the projections of growth in representative paul ryan 's budget plan are highly improbable , for example , that these projections are politically important , since , without them , the full cost of proposed medical cuts would be immediately apparent . standard & poor received some criticism of the analysis behind the recent decision to reduce public debt ; after all , there were few economic reports that could explain the timing of the move . but the assessment of the political situation is on the target : by creating a dysfunctional paralysis at the heart of government , tea has shown that it is willing to impose dramatic costs on the wider economy and significantly slower growth . confrontation and fraud have become a new watchdog word of american politics , even if the government 's legal ability to pay its debts is in line with the ideological rigidity of the tea party . and the tone of political debate has not surprised that it has become much worse .
trump accepted xi 's invitation to china for a moment . on trade , trump and xi agreed to a 100-day debate plan to reduce the trade deficit in china . in addition , china 's proposal to revamp the framework for bilateral engagement by creating a comprehensive dialogue between us-china and china , which includes four sub-dialogues : diplomacy and security , economic issues , enforcement of law and cybersecurity , social and cultural affairs . understanding between xi and trump was a sober recognition of national and international risks faced by their country . both seemed to recognize that a stable relationship between us-china and china was needed to focus on their problems .
the uae and qatar have already established mandatory military services for adult men . and kuwait is considering the following steps in jordan 's footsteps by rewriting the writing of conscription , which is already in most sunni states ( and iran ) . in this context , efforts to tame the deep-seated rivalry of the sunni-shia ( e.g. , by improving the relationship between saudi arabia and iran ) should not be prioritised by the sectarianism of the sectarianism that surrounds the sunni belt . this strategy must focus on federalism , and it is a great deal of work . if federalism were introduced in some way , for example , when the rift in the north-south was emerging , it would probably not end up as a failed state .
the left did not recognize that the elections on the island were not strictly political affairs ; they were an expression of ethnically kaleidoscopic society . elections are in some way tribal , people vote on memories , insults , religious sensibilities , and complaints about the group . the current political dominance of the island is a great desire for jewish roots , deep fear of arabs , and uncompromising distrust of " world , " the so-called international community , with which there is a centuries-old dispute . the desire for peace left is considered naive , though not a political madness ( and , in any event , an unforgivable betrayal of jewish identity ) . the network was a magnet for fear and complexity of a broad array of distressed voters , including russian immigrants , orthodox jews , most traditionalist israelis and religious settlers .
in addition , there will be a number of jobs in the area of education and health care , where women are traditionally thriving . according to research into gi , more than 100 million jobs could be created over the next 10-15 years , as health care and education needs are growing . it is still unclear how automatic activity will affect the employment of women in the workplace . but there is no doubt that protecting women 's jobs and income prospects will require an improvement in their skills , so that they can use new and changing opportunities that have been created by the ongoing digital revolution . the success of e-commerce is linked to the power of digital technology to a level of economic play , which will benefit individual women , communities , and societies , and the economy of the world .
russia has conquered the muslim territory in the area of volgaural , castasia and the central region , and has brutally suppressed all resistance . but after the government secured the loyalty , it adopted a more pragmatic policy . until mid-19th century , they were joined by the entary muslim elites , as well as the twenty-century communist elites , absorbed into the soviet noviet noviatura . russian contacts with the muslim world have indeed returned thousands of years ago , and they have been rooted in tolerance tradition . with several exceptions , russia 's imperial government did not support orthodox evangelism .
hong kong has experienced 17 weeks of mostly peaceful demonstrations ( the occasional violence has caused disproportionate attention to the media ) . the trigger was a proposed extradition law , which many feared would extend the country 's reach to the judicial system of hong kong . the absence of any plan to unite various protest groups and the hong kong government has become a source of growing concern . such a plan would have to be done at least in two ways , if not for two . first , all parties ( including china 's central government in the present case ) need to recommend a framework for " one country , two systems . "
in order to address this distortion and clarify the allocation of funds , the egf should focus its limited funds on two simple labour market programs : wage insurance and mobility contributions . wage insurance could offer workers whose salary was reduced after the transfer of compensation for up to two years , which would have been half the difference between the original and new salary . the mobility allowance could offer those who move to a new job would be paid a lump-sum sum sum of two months of gross salaries in the previous job or four months of paid for cross-border transfers . the very simple nature of the scheme will likely provide high visibility and appropriate enforcement rates . the downside of this targeted approach is also clear : the margin of choice for members of the eu eu group regarding the way to spend funds in their country would be minimal .
asia 's share was 28 % ( including japan ) , and was also a percentage of the population . but according to kharas 's forecasts , asia will take two-thirds of the middle class by 2030 . in other words , asia will not only be found in the west , but also in other emerging regions . this is a real business opportunity , and i 'm not going to let you know . of course , the increase in asia 's middle class is not the only change we should expect .
populist parties , on the right and left , are getting electoral traction . some , such as the national front of france , oppose the eurozone 's membership ; others like podemos in spain do not . however , the challenge that these new parties pose for europe could be extremely disruptive . the euro would be a major defeat for integration - especially after a strenuous effort to keep the union together and the euro dream . such an outcome would be even more disturbing in the light of the tragic terrorist attacks in paris , and after the unity march in the continent and the continent , the euro 's long lost sense of solidarity was restored .
all these shortcomings have seriously questioned the claim that instead of the debate , the debate is leading to a fundamental change in global economic governance . europe 's governments repeat the mantra " effective multilateralism , " but it seems they do not have a comprehensive strategy to translate it into coherent policy . indeed , if europe is thinking of restoring global governance , they will limit themselves to the number of places and voting weight in international institutions . europe 's governments are now reluctantly aware that their excessive representation in multilateral institutions is needed , and they recognize that it is more likely to undermines than that of eu 's overall influence by pushing other powers into separate arrangements . but while deliberation is underway about how much euro should be taken away from its historical domination of multilateral bodies , there is no greater vision .
the conclusion is close to the são paulo - a decades-old legal fight between consumers and financial institutions . in december , lawyers representing the plaintiffs presented brazil 's highest federal court with a request to confirm the settlement of the banks . if the court approves the deal , the settlement will put billions of people in the savers ' pockets . but more than a long wait for a million plaintiffs to pay , the court ordered a restitution would also mean an official end to the seemingly endless war on hyperinflation . by the end of the 1980 " s and the early 1990 " s , the brazilian government sought to stabilize the country 's economy and currency .
today , women are dominated by agriculture in agriculture , the world 's most important industry . but this has not been transferred to a greater control of the financial resources . one measure of this deficiency is the rate of borrowing ; in east africa , when my organization works , women borrow 13 % of the money for activities related to agriculture , which are less than men . illiteracy , limited ownership of land and restrictions on agency and mobility all conspired to reduce the access of rural women to finance agricultural holdings . these barriers have had a dramatic impact on the progress of the social and economic sectors .
the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur . after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . modi supporters of government support have a sleepover of new repressive laws - including criminal offences of talaq - and muslim practice of " immediate divorce " - as a demonstration of resolve .
liquidity injections and low interest rates have a microeconomic impact that has not been sufficiently observed : they reduce the cost of capital compared to the cost of labor , which is a relative decline in demand for labor . this is likely to worsen the unemployment problem , but it certainly does not mitigate it . one solution is to channel part of the liquidity injection to offset this asymmetry of the face costs . thus , for each 100 new liquidity , we could buy assets of 60 dollars , and the rest of the funds would provide companies with a marginal subsidy to job creation , which could be especially effective in economies with flexible labor markets that would allow short-term employment . even if the employment subsidy was only offered for a year , it would be tempting for businesses to use more work at the time .
it is clear that the experience of the countries implementing the agreement is not particularly positive , unless these countries have high tolerance for bureaucratic regulation , which limit innovation and development , which is called noble aspirations . the seed agreement is cut off by the same anti-capitalist , anti-science , anti-innovation , as a convention on biodiversity . it also reflects the flagranate non-scientific , anti-genetic-technical protocol for biosecurity for the cbd . and it is often associated with the nagoya-kuala lumpur protocol on liability and repair of the cartagena protocol - but with another screech against genetics that can only be achieved by the fact that potential entrepreneurs are not afraid of agricultural biotechnology . it is overwrought , confusing and complex - in short , incomical innovation that could benefit the poor .
" there is , " he wrote , in a echo of today 's globalization debate , " a situation of capitalistically disorganized economies , in which higher culture is not victorious , but is losing in a existential battle with less developed cultures . " in the middle - a beleaguered anti-global response from the left and right - a liberal commercial elite has seen the products of economic opening or globalization as a benefit . instead of split to the right , there was a triple division between the conservatives against globalization , pro-globalization liberals , and the redistributionist leftist leftists . when the political zone was radicalised , as in the inter-war period , anti-international law was moved to fascism , the left to communism , democratic politics was paralyzed . for much of the post-1945 period , these divisions disappeared as well as the left and right , fighting for redistribution in national economies .
the chant of chinese leadership for secretiveness is a proverbial character for the secretiveness of the company . but the veil , which exists over how the omnipotent party makes important decisions , is somewhat withdrawn , as there are plenty of unique materials about events that have happened in the past , surrounding the notorious massacre of the tianmen in 1989 . the materials contained in the book i brought from china and decided to publish are hundreds of documents , including minutes and transcripts of meetings , in which the most important leaders of the people 's republic have considered how to handle demonstrations of officials , key speeches , notes to important telephone conversations between leaders , secret reports from security agencies , and reports from police and military . these documents , which are all , provide a rare glimpse of the modus operandi of china 's leaders . as a witness and a participant in events of the tianmen and as someone who has access to the historical archives , i felt obliged to publish this record of the decisions behind what happened .
in the 1970 " s , for example , the czechoakia , like other communist states , was a bleak , oppressive , joyous place , where the media party 's party was speaking , and creativity was suppressed under a blanket of forced forced conformism . rock and roll were considered a nasty form of capitalist decadence , but it was not a good name . in the late 1970 " s , a local rock band was arrested for " organized peace . " the recordings of rolling stones and other western groups were banned from the search for the country . and yet the records were smuggled into czechoslovakia and other east europe countries , where young rock fans were treasure , including the dissident playwright of the václav , who later became president of the country .
the debt ceiling is significantly underestimated by the massive cost of adjustment of self-imposed " sudden stop " in debt finance . such costs are why impeccable countries , such as a greece , face massive social and economic displacement , when financial markets suddenly lose confidence and capital flows . of course , it is logical to say that governments should balance their budgets as much as others , but unfortunately it is not so easy . governments typically have countless commitments to expenditure related to basic services such as national defense , infrastructure , education and health care . no government can just walk away from these responsibilities overnight , and i 'm not going to let you know .
ironically , this perception brings some of the somewhat improbable partners to the island . president hosni mubarak claims that the shiites are always " loyal to ian , " while king abdullah of ordan has given an axiom a growing " shiite crescent . " this " rise in shiites " and the resulting " sunni-shia divide " is said to create an ever-expanding gap in the region . although this perception can convince at first glance , it is based on generalizations that show more about its advocates than the real reality of the country . take iraq where the looming " shia crescent " is often blamed for the chaos .
worse , the mackenzie consultancy wood found that the boom in renewable energy has only been transferred to 2 % of the total energy demand . in the case of this , coal , oil and gas may still be supplied by 85 % of primary energy by 2040 , but today it is only 90 % lower . the transition from fossil fuels will require drilling to the core of the global economy . it does not help financial institutions in china finance at least $ 1 billion in " green " financing for projects related to coal in the first half of the year . companies can not continue to produce oil , gas and internal combustion engines , while gradually changing to clean technologies .
moreover , with support , colombia 's armed forces have increased , thanks to modernization of military equipment and doctrine , and the number of troops has increased , and improved training . the armed conflict is becoming increasingly costly for the rebels , and the number of people is still growing . unlike 2002 , when the farm could not impose impossible demands on government institutions , today 's environment would support the state and force the rebels to keep their demands realistic . the farc is unlikely to show the media at meetings in the norway and in the cuba . the agenda will focus on ending the conflict without endless discussions about theoretical or doctrinaire .
yes , this is a series of volatile data , as it increases and falls with normal events . but it 's also another area where obama put the bar high in his terms . the most positive thing we can say about trump 's first year of economic policy is that he did not deliver his promise to disrupt trade . the north american trade agreement remains intact , as well as trade relations with china and other major partners . the administration has imposed tariffs on solar panels and washing machines in the mouth , but they are small compared to the economy 's size .
all of these books are different from the protocols of the elders of zion , the russian forgery , which was published in 1903 , when japan defeated the czar army in 1905 . the chinese have collected many modern western ideas from the japanese , and they have come to the world . maybe that 's how many jewish conspiracy theories have been issued , too , for example . but the southeast asians are not immune to this kind of nonsense , and they do n't know what else . the former prime minister of malaysia , mahathir bin mohammed , said :
it does not need to be just a closer economic relationship , but also to close political ties . it is necessary to ensure that those who carry out a strong emergency financing mechanism are responsible . they will have to respond to a strong european parliament , and they will be able to answer . the german chancellor anela merkel 's constituents hate bailouts because they know they will do it . they are against everything that is a smudge of european policy integration , and that 's why they do n't want to be involved .
new york - the attempt to revive the world economy while responding to the global climate crisis has raised a fundamental question : are statistics giving us the right signals about what to do ? in our world focused on performance , measurement issues have increased importance : what we measure affects our actions . if we have bad measures , what we are trying to do ( say , increase the gdp ) can contribute to worsening living standards . we can also face false decisions when we see compromises between output and environmental protection that do n't exist . on the contrary , the economic performance measures could prove that environmental improvement measures are good for the economy .
bangkok - a friend recently asked a seemingly naïve question : how do i know i can trust it is worth what it is worth ? " we learn from the beginning that money is a medium of exchange , but we do n't know what else . but why do we accept this , and we do n't want to talk about it ? the banknotes are just bits of paper , and they have a number attached to them .
of course , the idea of abolishing borders within the eurozone is of great symbolic importance and appeal . but sometimes it is necessary to kill even the sacred cows , and then kill them . with the refugee crisis , the danger of becoming a common entity and the ability of national governments to maintain order and rule of law is now in danger . when it was created in 1985 , the area was only five countries ( belgium , france , luxembourg , netherland and west germany ) . membership has been balloon to include 22 member countries of the eu eu eu group - with four countries left ( bulgaria , croaciers , cyclist and romania ) , which are due to the future - plus four members of the non-eu group ( norway , iceland , and lililistein ) .
no doubt putin is likely to act as a peacemaker , and he 's not going to be a good man . he does n't want to strengthen the power of his kremlin 's aides . he also realizes that the big business is important for the modernization of russia . he just wants oligarchs to stick to their activities and leave politics to him . but the problem is not going to go away , and it 's not going to happen .
the danger is that political uncertainty in germany , france , italy , and uk will create a premiership for populists and democrats , such as hungarian prime minister vktor orbán , will build more walls ( physically , metaphorically ) , and mobilize the spirits of nationalism . moreover , the european external environment has become more dangerous in terms of european importance . although the world 's attention is currently focused on the risk of a escalating sino-american trade war , the threat of a transatlantic conflict is not ignored . trump seems to believe that german cars are threatening us in new york . one morning he should wake up and decide to impose heavy import tariffs on the european cars .
there is a trade between competition and stability , and the commission is in a position to ensure that the market is not respected . indeed , greater competitive pressure may increase the instability of banks " balance sheets and increase investors " willingness to panic . it may also erode the value of the charter of the institutions in question . a bank with a small margin and a limited liability does not have much to lose , and it is more likely to risk - a tendency that is exacerbated by deposit insurance and too big a failure policy . the result will be more incentives to take risks , but it will also be a risk .
vaccines have already eliminated smallpox and have significantly reduced the number of children 's deaths and the disease associated with measles , diphtheria and tetanus . unfortunately , every 20 seconds of illness , such as pneumonia , can be prevented from vaccination . most of them live in remote and poor communities , which still do n't have access to basic vaccines that are widely available in countries that are better off the market . this is one of the reasons why a child who was born in a high-income country is 18 times more likely than a child who was born in a low-income country and died before he reaches five . fortunately , the world is taking action , and it is a great deal of work .
as the pioneering psychologist jean piaget has shown , children at the start of development are undergoing egocentrism : they naturally focus on their needs and do n't think about the rules . a child can grab another child 's toy , break it , and then deny it . rather than admitting that the rules are broken , they are in a position to reconcile the inconsistency . the child 's mind is not wrong ; the world is simply wrong . and since the child believes everyone is working according to their definition of good and bad , he does n't understand that someone else can see things differently .
this difference is more than anything else that divide both economies . what can india do to close the gap between us and the two of us ? the biggest shortstop is a lack of roads , bridges , ports and other infrastructure , where china is just stunning . if your products do n't reach the global economy , you ca n't control them . over the last five years , china has multiplied its system of highways five times .
the critical idea is increasingly dismissed as an elitist effort , while the public discussions are dominated by unaccountable social media , " false news , " and " alternative facts . " in an environment of ignorance , populist politicians are willing to sacrifice those who feel neglected . but since politicians are so attractive , they must be examined , at least as easily as possible , to be swayed by voters . the question is whether a policy brand that threatens liberal democracy can be reformulated to save it . today there are two types of populists : exploitative and enlightened people .
the last characteristic of this period of slow productivity growth is a weak demand . we know from the decision-making bodies that demand is essential for investment , and that is why we are not in the world . for example , a survey of gi carried out last year found that 47 % of the companies that increased their investment budgets were doing so , owing to an increase in demand or demand expectations . the slow recovery of demand after the financial crisis was a key factor in the return of investment . the crisis has increased uncertainty about the direction of consumers and investments in the future .
here , it is a country that has long protected its " exception " from the normal market economy rules , a misty view that rejects central planning and free markets , and is claiming to offer a balanced middle ground . the french do not care that they have never been able to express their vision of " third " , since they are deeply convinced that the state is playing a key role in managing markets to defend " higher " values before the mere pursuit of materialism . this view , which has spread from world war ii to quasi-marxist intelligence , is so overwhelming that the french do not even bother to understand how markets operate . they look at economics as an ideological battlefield , where all views can be entertained without logic , and less facts . but the facts have been hard to do , and they have n't really gotten into it .
health and social security , which have already consumed half of the federal budget , up to 1 / 6 in 1965 , and these outlays are estimated to be more than double by 2040 . without any change , the balances of the " trust fund " programs will be exhausted by the 1930 " s. to avoid this outcome , political leaders will demand an increase in entitlement spending and support for middle-income individuals . social security and medicare are important to ensure that they retire well , but they must be updated to meet the needs of today . for example , in order to ensure that no one who has worked for 30 years or more years will live in poverty in the old age , social security needs a higher minimum dose for workers with lower incomes , while in the case of persons with more affluent seniors , who will be less likely to benefit from the benefits .
new york - president george w. but even as he uttered those words , his government was working behind the scenes to undo the will of pakistan 's people by trying to dictate the composition of the next coalition government and support the biggest loser in the election , president pervez musharraf . the bush is playing a dangerous game , risking the collapse of pakistan 's political process for his legacy . millions of pakistanis have delivered clear reports from the polls , and they have not yet heard of anything . they voted against musharraf and religious extremists and supported democracy , law and good governance .
three of the five positive people still do n't have antiretroviral treatment , so they 're not taking any more . long-term treatment is not the same as treatment , and no public health tool ( except for drinking water ) has ever been used to prevent the vaccine from being prevented . hiv is a highly complex virus , and i 'm sure it 's a virus . it is rapidly changing in individual geographical locations , creating latent reservoirs in cells that allow it to emerge and replicate months or years later . it will avoid immune system , so the natural ability of the body to fight or clean it is limited .
according to this argument , scientists should either publish their research openly or leave the university before they pursue commercial interests . similarly , universities that employ them should leave the development of products to existing companies . but it is appropriate to recall that the university has been accused of undermining its ideas and social role since the immemorial of the time , but many of the earlier years have often appeared to be a conflict of interest . for example , at the end of the 19th century , when universities began to study at the core of the academic mission , they were accused of abandoning their traditional teaching role . many professors have argued that research requirements will not allow them to carry out their teaching obligations .
brussels - during the crisis , the behaviour of the central bank of the euro has been conditioned by the tension between what it can do and what it can do . the ecb is the only european union that can provide unlimited funding to governments , but its governing authority prohibits government bailouts . however , the european ecb provided a large amount of liquidity to the financial system and indirectly reduced the pressure on public debt refinancing . for 18 months , it buys government bonds - worth more than € 200 billion ( 254 billion ) - in secondary markets under its securities market . in addition , it provided loans to the banking sector , which recently started a three-year refinancing operation , which caused eurozone banks " demand for € 489 billion .
america would face these problems , even if it had not been a financial crisis at the same time . america 's economy was overloaded with excessive leveraging , and now comes a painful process of deleveraging . excessive leveraging , combined with bad lending and risky derivatives , has caused the freezing of credit markets . after all , when banks do n't know their own balance sheets , they wo n't be trusted by others . " the bush administration did not see the coming problems , denying that they were in trouble , then minimized their importance and eventually panicked .
vietnam and south korea offer inspiring examples of countries that have changed their education systems for generations . as a former minister for education and commission members of south korea , ju-ho has observed during our visit , teaching young people to think critically about time , but the results can have strong consequences for the country 's knowledge economy . myanmar , aware of these benefits , has put education in the core of the reform programme . one priority - to improve inclusivity - is already being put in place . for example , the government is seeking to promote teaching in more local languages - more than 100 people speak in the area of myanmar - in rural areas .
but what if economists ' compensation in theory is not in practice ? what if , in particular , market policy prohibits redistribution of income , regional , industrial and educational subsidies , which could compensate those who have a free trade and labor market for " flexibility " ? in this case , the optimal pareto is not socially optimal at all . instead , policies that strengthen competition , whether trade , labor markets or domestic production , can be socially destructive and politically explosive . this is another reason why economic policy has not been successful since 2007 .
the development of developing countries and many companies in them , the main world economic operators , have been balancing the power of the world between the north and south . this is a new reason for strengthening the international framework for the protection of foreign investments . once upon a time , global direct investment was only from a few sources : the traditionally rich european states , north america and japan . cross-border investments from countries such as brazil , india and china are now flowing not just to other emerging and transitional economies , but also to " old " countries that export fdi-export . these changes have increased the complexity of the international investment regime and should increase interest in the development of a more effective framework for the protection of investments .
globalization is mainly a consequence of new information technology . computers and internet offers almost no material information , and trade across culture and continents . the worry is that information technology is now on the curve of hockey sticks , where it suddenly takes off at much greater speed than before . all changes to the resulting changes will not be welcome in terms of economic importance . hockey curves often occur in nature , and they do n't know what they 're doing .
copper - in the growing wave of concerns about climate change , many countries - including brazil , australia , united states and european unions - have passed the laws in the area of the expansion of the 2000 " outlawing or severely restricted access to incandescent bulbs . the intention was clear : if everyone in the world exchanged most bulbs for energy-efficient compact fluorescent lamps , we would save 3.5 % of all electricity and 1 % of the co2 emissions . the current attempt by republicans in congress to reverse america 's efforts to ban incandescent bulbs has revived this discussion . many say the agenda is driven by people who drag a climate-change to the bottom . but it is worth more attention to the assumption that banning things is the smartest way to overcome global warming .
this approach limits the profits of trade in the form of a trade agreement . for example , the inter-american development bank says trade profits from 33 small regional trade agreements have been meager . the key to raising these gains is to adopt a new strategy that will extend access to markets and within them . this suggests that , for uk , trade agreements at a regional level , which provide access to more markets , but that they require lower levels of fiscal integration and regulation than the eu , are best suited . this approach would allow uk companies to be placed in well-developed and integrated supply chains , which would serve much larger markets than those in which bilateral agreements would allow them to access .
the growth patterns , which systematically exclude the founder of sub-groups in terms of political and social cohesion , and in the end , the loss of support for the strategy . on the contrary , the inequality in income , which is not too high , and which does not arise from corruption or privileged access to markets , is understood and accepted . the provision of high-quality basic services such as education and health care is considered essential for the equality of opportunity and intergenerational mobility . in this context , it is possible to assess the current growth patterns of the world economy and its various parts . for example , public investments are generally lower than the level needed to restore and sustain growth , partly because of fiscal constraints in countries that are too indebted .
it is important to recognize , for example , that the line must be clearly visible before extremist parties begin to exist . if the rule of law is to be upheld , democratic self-defense must not be ad hoc or arbitrarily . in advance , the criteria for the bans should be defined in advance , according to the commission . one criterion , which seems to be widely accepted , is the use of a party , encouragement or at least condonating violence - as it seems , with the role of a golden dawn in attacking immigrants in athens . there are less consensus about the parties that incite hatred and are committed to destroying the fundamental democratic principles - especially since many extremist parties in europe are trying to stress that democracy is not against them , but that they are fighting for " people . "
patriotism means that it is a matter of hardness to protect national interests and adopt more democratic policies that help working masses , not to set fat cats . the second part of this argument - that the interests of ordinary people are subordinated to the interests of the elite - must be heard and answered . democracy , in which most people feel neglected or exploited , is not sustainable . either the government or the whole system will be overturned , and we 'll be on the ground . elected officials must clearly find answers to high unemployment and reduce the living standards .
more important , wealth and consumption in china are closely related to real estate values , not to equity . finally , the renminbi 's recent decline in the dollar was only 2.5 % , from cn 6.2 to cn 6.35 - much below the double-digit deformation of japanese yen , euro and british pound . the renminbi is , overall , significantly higher in relation to currencies that compete with . moreover , the decline in renminbi and other currencies in recent years has not affected the import price , as chinese and other exporters have paid their goods in dollars , and they have not adjusted them in exchange rates . although the official data shows that the total import price is falling by 11 % in 12 months , this is almost entirely due to the lower energy costs .
many developing countries spend much time in stable , stable , and then more positive . there 's nothing automatic about it , and i do n't think it 's going to happen . in all cases where i 'm familiar , the catalyst was an effective leadership . so , while we can expect a multi-year process of balancing and closing differences between real and potential growth , it is exactly how long it will take for policy decisions and structural changes . for example , in southern europe , the process will take longer , as there are more parts of the recovery in these countries .
finally , the eu option should work to francoize the belarus . as in the last few years of dictator , it is unlikely that political opening will be opened . but the economic model of the belarusian economy can not survive , and the forecast deficit will exceed $ 7 billion this year . belarus ca n't borrow enough to cover it up , so i 'm not going to let you know . as well as in france , belarus 's economy will change before lukashenka is removed , and it will set up a basis for rapid development .
these countries have very diverse economic and social conditions and have a very different level of wealth . south korea , for example , is now enjoying a standard of living in europe 's union , which makes many analysts " permanent categorisation of south korea as a " emerging economy " more baffling . meanwhile , the amount of wealth of mexico and turkey has not reached the level of southern korea , but they are much richer than the rest of n-11 , some of which remain among the poorest countries in the world . the asian countries , like philippines and vietnam , have grown significantly since 2005 , while mexico 's performance has been somewhat disappointing , and egypt is even more . the total n-11 includes about 1.5 billion people and its current nominal value is about 6.5 billion .
for the first time since world war ii , the euro is not a remarkable ally or partner . far from the aberration , the trade wars and betrayal of allies represent a new standard for the world order . multi-lateralism , human rights and respect for international law are now threatened everywhere , as demagogic attacks on liberal-democratic principles and trump 's open support for authoritarians . on both sides of the atlantic , populist politicians are regularly mocking the idea of an alliance based on shared values , while china and russia are constantly expanding uncontrolled areas . the recent invasion of turkey in northern syria , as a result of betrayal of the kurds , who led the fight against the islamic state , is also a reason for the interests of the country .
removing 70 million jobs and taxpayers from the eurozone economy would be a disaster . the leading economists , such as germany 's klaus regling , led by the european stability mechanism , the eurozone 's bailout fund , calculated a decade ago that the workforce 's decline in employment is set to significantly limit economic growth . it is assumed that the labor shortage will create a ceiling that will limit annual growth of gdp to 1.8 % by 2030 , and that it will only be 1.3 % by 2050 . relatively few europeans are likely to oppose the moral duty of refugees seeking asylum , who are fleeing the civil war of syria or political oppression elsewhere . economic immigrants are more negatively affected by the public 's mood .
in the end , about 258 million people were registered around the world , and 22.5 million refugees were registered to the refugee organization . these numbers will be reduced if there are even the most modest predictions of climate change . according to the international migration organization , climate change could spread by 2050 by 1 billion people . and yet no international treaty applies to migration caused by climate change - a gap that must be addressed now . since 1951 , international standards have not been applied to the protection of refugees .
lukyanivska prison , kyiv - there are no atheists in the pit . after my trial and half a year in prison , i found no atheists in prison . when you get in touch with excruciating pain , you get interrogated - including in your cell - for dozens of hours without interruption , and the entire system of coercion , including the media , is trying to discredit you and destroy you , and only prayer becomes intimate , trusting , and reassuring . god knows , one is the only friend and only family available , because - without access to a trusted priest - there is no one else to trust him . in this period of love and family , prison prison alone is almost unbearable .
but , in addition to reducing the aid , donors may be more difficult to repay the aid funds they owe ( this is not limited to loans for education ) . and some donors - for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for example , for the sake of mutual assistance , for germany and the investment bank of the euro - are lobbying for the development of the oecd committee for the development of public finances , which is an official development assistance , which will enable them to meet their objectives . this trend is reflected in the last few decades in order to finance finance granates , especially basic education . but education , which is a crucial public good , should not be left behind in the pursuit of aid based on granite . credit failures can help keep the education sector " competitive , " and it could prove that it is a mechanism that would provide additional resources for education , for which countries that are bound by capital can not otherwise be willing to borrow .
in the end , the economic activity that development creates is the only way to reduce inequality , especially in the context of rapid demographic growth : it is easier to work on a fairer distribution of growing pie than in reducing the number of people . moreover , fast-paced , but poorly distributed economic growth can be accompanied by programs aimed at those who remain behind , thereby mitigating the consequences . it is no coincidence that much of kenya 's ongoing violence is taking place in the slums of its great cities . if the country 's most glaring inequalities were given more attention to access to water , shelter or employment , this population would not have chosen violence as a tool of change . we will draw lessons from kenya : socio-economic progress remains the best tool to prevent conflicts .
the water supply is also highly variable in all regions and in countries where floods and drought occur at irregular intervals . the new factor , which affects water supplies , is rising at global temperature , and the water is rising . although we are not sure about the exact effects , many scientists believe that annual rainfall will increase , but that the seasonality of the product and the frequency of extreme temperatures may also increase . this would be difficult to use existing infrastructure for supply of dams , reservoirs , processing systems and pipelines without significant changes . from the writing of the first modern commentators on the driver 's social-economic growth and decline - adam smith , edam smith , edward gibbon , thomas malthus malted , david ricardo and karl marx - we see that the issue of exhausting resources is not new .
the armed forces of qaddafi were selected according to loyalty and ethnic affiliation , and not any idea of their merit , so the temptation to put them in their underwear and send them home ( to describe what could be the most humane of all ) could be great . but the most important lesson in iraq is , of course , the result of almost disastrous decisions to decompose the saddam army without paying or retiring . the move was the basis of many of iraq 's subsequent security problems . libya is lucky , but there 's a way to go . - you know what ? the oil industry seems relatively intact , and it should therefore contribute relatively soon to government revenues .
even if the privatization of new property rights is not compromised , it is often uncertain . the problem is that most state businesses have value , according to the assumption . even in the most favorable conditions in the west , large businesses ( and many private ) need to be broken , restructured , merged or closed . in the communist countries , many ( sometimes most ) large companies were misplaced from the outset . in recent years , communism investment has been almost entirely managed by the official acts of self-service .
58 % of africans do n't have access to electricity . the new international initiative called " roadmap for electrification , " was developed from the general ban on the ki-moon general , which was aimed at ensuring energy supplies for the achievement of the mdgs , and from its initiative " sustainable energy for all , " and was officially launched at the rio + 20 conference on sustainable development in june 2012 . as the debate has shown , these issues are increasingly focused on the government , businesses , non-governmental organizations and financial institutions in development . the czech role is one of the leaders and the other is the support of the czech republic . over the short term , we have selected more than four million households - an effort that has significantly been held in discussions held by the general committee on sustainable energy , and has been interested in other developing countries .
the medium fertility scenario of the united states , which will be implemented by 2050 , will increase by 7 billion . the population of nigeria could increase by 123 million by 2050 to 440 million , while the population could increase by 18 million to 42 million . high fertility rates in many countries are partly due to low incomes . the opposite direction is also caused by causation , but the opposite direction is also possible . the growth rate is a stymie prospect of economic growth , as too rapid growth in the population is not possible to accumulate in capita stocks of physical and human capital at a rate that is required to increase the income of rapid growth .
there were all the ingredients of the disastrous result , and there were only a few of them . the economy is rapidly growing , and it is 4.2 % , and it is a double export growth in agriculture , mining , manufacturing , tourism and business services . in emerging economies of the market , as diverse as argentina , turkey , nigeria and southern africa face plummeting currencies and rising interest rates , albania has the lowest interest rate and a strengthening of currency . it is now the lowest sovereign spread for all countries in the rating class , indicating that rating agencies have slept on the wheel . once the north korean dictator enver hoxha is in the north korean republic , the income of albania per capita is 25 % higher than germany .
on the contrary , we must be prepared to lead international efforts to bring serious consequences to any party that will bring the country back to war . peace and security in darfur should be a basic reference value for normal relations between us and sudan . the obama administration should keep this in line with the coming negotiations , and it should be appointed by a senior official to coordinate the darfur policy in order to ensure that peace efforts are paid as much attention as the efforts in the north-south . now it is necessary to have political will - not just in us - to keep this diplomatic mission . the european union and sudan 's neighbors - especially egypt , ethiopia , kenya and uganda - will also need to play a strong role .
but the new debt is only a form of drugs , and a reduction in pressure to take painful measures that would improve competitiveness and capacity growth . this renewed decline in debt discipline reflects the socialisation of potential bankruptcy costs in all eurozone countries in order to create mechanisms for joint liability . this de facto mutualization of debt has prompted creditors to accept lower interest rates , and only lower interest rates have allowed renzi , samaras , valls and others to avoid austerity . it is no surprise to this : if the decision-making maker can claim full credit for the benefits of the policy and the collectivize of costs , he will act sooner , faster , and more quickly than he would have had to bear the costs . it is remarkable how europe 's transgressors are able to dress up with a new social breakthrough .
and why did n't the world notice ? - i 'm not going to tell you . the story is as complex as it is in indonesia itself , and it is not a problem . one of the leading experts on indonesia , the benedict anderson , the roots of indonesia in the main japanese culture , especially religious tradition . according to anderson , " contrary to the great religion of the middle east ... " religion of wayang does not have a prophet , a message , no bible , no supplier ... . an endless variety of different and sharp individuals suggest that wayang reflects the diversity of human life , as the japanese feel ... " in short , japanese culture helps indonesia to deal with a number of different voices that bring about new democracy .
it is essential to engage in the southern mediterranean region as a critical place to meet - a place where political , economic and energy cooperation is involved . in this context , the most valuable tools of eu are the signature , the model of multilateral dialogue and the soft power of the nobel prize . the next door , russia , must also respond to new vulnerabilities , which are caused by changing global conditions . the kremlin continues to support the syrian president of bashar al-assad , who is still strictly committed to military intervention , and is seeking to defend his strategic interests , including the naval base of the tartus . this stance , of course , changed into repeated vetoes of the security council 's resolutions aimed at ending the conflict that has already caused tens of thousands of victims .
cairo - last week 's visit to evenypt , which was attended by king salman of the saudi arabia , resulted in 22 contracts , including a $ 22 billion oil trade , which was supposed to boost the economy of egypt . but the great support was at a cost : in 1950 , the egypt had to hand over two red islands of the sea . the movement revealed the story of egyptian leaders that the country remains a major regional power . egypt can not even handle the domestic challenges posed by a rapidly growing population dependent on unaffordable subsidies - a situation that jihadists are using with great success . how did the country get to this point ? - what do you think ?
in a similar way , the # bringbackourgirls ' campaign began online after a famous japanese playwright , a speech about the world 's literature , in which jonathan called for " bring the pupils back . " the anger of the nigerians on the internet soon turned into a offline action led by former minister of the government of the ezekwesili ( who also spoke to the world 's book ) and civil society leaders , including lawyer maryam uwais and hadiza bala . the protests spread across the nigeria and the countries with large nigerian diaspora , such as us , the united kingdom , south africa and canada . international media has paid attention to the violence , reporting on protests and sit-ins . the security challenge , which nigeria faces , was dominated by discussions in the recent world economic forum meetings in abuja , where the united states special envoy for global education , former british prime minister gordon brown , was not covered by the initiative of safe schools .
in the early gust of wind , russia set up a trap in southern ossetia and george foolishly entered it . if the russians had used their " peacekeeping " forces only to protect the " self-determination " of the south ossetians ( in order to achieve precedent for western action in kosovo ) , they would have done little damage to their weak power , and the benefits could have exceeded the costs . russia has lost its claim to legitimacy and sowed fear and distrust in many of the world . the neighbors , like ukraine , are more wary of the fact that they are more cautious . the immediate cost was the reverse reverse of resistance to the american anti-ballistic missile system .
but the potential economic importance of diaspora is far beyond the limits of the transfers . as the historian philip curtin has documented , since the start of urban life , it has been a thousand years ago that trade has usually been linked to networks of ethnic buyers living among aliens . the greeks , the phoenicians , the trans-saharan traders , the handover league , the jews , the armenians , the overseas chinese , and the dutch companies and the british companies in the east of india have organised a large part of the world trade in these networks . although these foreign traders were politically influential in the host countries , they were often weak and faced discrimination . the economist avner greif argues that the durability and resilience of these coethnic networks throughout history reflects the ability to enforce contracts at a long distance , if the existing institutional framework could not reliably .
these rates increase the costs of businesses using metal as input for the entry into force . for example , the impact on harley-davidson is to increase the cost of approximately $ 20 million ( or more than 2,000 for a bike ) . the euro 's return rate could cost the company another 45 million . trump 's signature theme is that he will help all americans . when government policy reduces profitability - or threatens the existence of a company - it is reasonable for people running this business to respond accordingly .
but the selection of experts has clearly shown a tendency to express the opinion of the finance ministry . the ministry has effectively used its " information campaign " to shape public discussions , convincing scientific staff , economic operators , and public officials to keep the budget deficit under control rather than negative demand . this is a typical example of how economists such as joseph stiglitz call " cognitive capture . " for more than twenty years - a period characterized by a chronic recession and deflation - japan has maintained its position as the world 's richest country in terms of net wealth abroad . last year , japan 's net international wealth reached 296 trillion .
the great danger is that , with so many genetic descriptions of organisms emerging , we are drowning in a sea of data , but we are moving away from understanding biological complexity . the basic functional units of all complex organisms , which must be remembered , are cells , not genes . we need maps of cells and maps of how they talk to each other . our first job is to say how many cells are found in a complex organism . i think we can say it now , for c. elegans , for the sake of c.
the new york - china 's massive protest movement in 1989 , which was concentrated ( but not limited ) in beijing 's square , seems to be a communist revolt that failed . as the brutal crackdown and subsequent negotiations of the three-4 political freedom took place in central europe - first in the country and in the hunt , and then in the east of germany , the czechoakia , the bulgaria , and , although undemocratically , romania , began to fall . within two years , the soviet union opened mikhail gorbachev 's reforms and eventually collapsed . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries .
from now on , it is only a short step to declare that the american model can not work in europe , because it is socially reprehensible , and in any case , it is poised to fail every day . on the other hand , europe 's desperate reformers do not see any way to cut , roll back , or blow up the obsessive bureaucracies of the continent and agree with politicians . in today 's europe , they see only hints of possibility - a glass much less than half - reform and restructuring , and they are impatient for the slow european process . indeed , europe is moving very slowly , but the attack on the state and its allies in the supply side of the ossified supply and dinosaurs of industrial stake holders is expanding . the new fronts in the war are opening every day , and they 're not going to be able to make a difference .
they simply need tools , infrastructure and ability to open the continent 's huge agricultural potential . there is no reason - and there is no excuse - to keep millions of people in unpredictable weather conditions . rather , countries must take control of these countries by increasing efficiency and productivity drastically . to be sure , progress has been made , and the process has been made . some african governments have reduced the barriers to investments in the private sector in agriculture .
europe may be more cheerful , as it believes that the chinese market will open not only to european engineering and engineering tools , but also to the luxury goods , but also to the tourism that the new quality quality quality quality of the rich is required . everyone thinks the seismic shift is in place , and it 's all going to happen . such rapid industrial growth is rare , but it is not uncommon to be seen . the most interesting analogies are germany growth in the 19th century and japan 's 20th century . before that time , the gland was an economic wundertype of europe .
everyone expects the current president , puppet dmitry medvedev , to switch to a new role after the election . but in the wings of the former finance minister alexei kudrin , who could replace medvedev , russia would need to know the truth about economic reforms . the reputation of kudrin for the calm skills could only buy a little extra time . but in putin 's eyes , it 's not going to be a good scenario . the former president claims that russia has already strengthened , and that financial uncertainty is a great deal of developed world in 2012 , and many of the countries have become a island of stability .
over time , this fuel was driven by a wave of low-quality lending , as banks did not have to bear the consequences . similarly , the volume of the supply of corporate borrowers and corporate bonds is its own reward , even if it means reducing the standards for credit for borrowers . the share of " weakest links " - enterprises rated by b or lower ( negative prospects ) - in general , since 2013-2015 , significantly increased . moreover , the new problems arising from a weaker debtor , the covenants of these instruments , are not only a provision designed to ensure compliance with their terms , and thus reduce the risk of default , but also become lax . the problems with the use of covenant-lite are increasing , and now they are now taking 80 % of the volume of outstanding goods .
one immediate consequence of the service of the council will be to take a position on matters that some indian mandarins have preferred to duck in recent years - for example , south sudan , whose referendum on independence threatens to cause serious violence in the area where the inhabitants of the peace service are already serving . during the first month of india , the future of peacekeeping activities in neighbouring nepal countries will be addressed . the council will soon have to consider the implications of the likely launch of a group of us in afghanistan , which is another area of direct importance for the security of india . the issues such as sanctions for iran , the end and start of peace in the middle east , and the response of the world to the likely change in leadership in north korea , will almost certainly be reflected in the council 's agenda . all of these matters require creative and courageous thinking that transcends entrenched positions or reflexibly solidarity with countries that are not aligned .
years of opposition policy have turned the orban and its allies into practical politicians who are close to middle age . if they want to succeed , it will be tested in a practical way . one problem or one face will be revealed , not by its opponents , but by its own ranks . the fact that fidesz had increased the number of members from 20 before the election to 129 means that many members were never subjected to a party 's whip . moreover , many of these new fidesz mps were previously members of other parties , who had collapsed on the right wing , not long ago .
but it is the opponents of liberalism who are most effective in the world . as the french presidential presidential presidential pen says , globalization and liberal institutions , which support it , have become a vage . nationalism and traditionalism have become a source of positive emotions , even if these feelings - nostalgia and völkisch - are still changing sand . if liberalism is to survive as a leading framework for international relations , its advocates must be influenced by their own passion . without prejudice to logic and ethics - areas where the liberal world is still in order to overcome the alternative - liberals must be linked to people at emotional level .
this sequence of studies was created in 1893 , and in 1893 , the results of the study were not included in the study . i believe it is obsolete , pedagogically disastrous , and it ignores the huge scientific advances of the twentieth century . other industrial countries can cycle through various disciplines , without the basic coherence of p-c-b . the study of science should begin with physics , not biology , but also with physics . students study algebra at the same time , motivating them with a sense of mathematics .
until then , income taxes have only been used in sport to raise resources for wars . but in 1842 , the income tax became a systemic and lasting economic feature . many of them have completely rejected the policy and warned that it will destroy incentives and stop the economy . fortunately , their color and cry did not heed the fact that they had taken care of themselves . thanks to today 's technological advances , the share of total revenue from labor ( not capital ) is falling worldwide .
but the euro 's position and forced all wage adjustments to increase the unrest ; indeed , it could only delay the inevitable . governments and bond markets will examine the seriousness of the newly approved fiscal guidelines ( if ratified ) . while the talk is now difficult , the past of these agreements does not inspire optimism . before the financial crisis , even bacteria have broken the limits of the deficit in the eu of stability and growth . in the 1980 " s , the limits of the deficit set out by the law on gramm-rudman-hollings were not met , and , as well as the sgp , they were revised and extended .
the total exposure of mtfa , efsm and payments to third countries is eur 70.5 billion this year . some loans may be possible during the seven-year period , while maintaining a balanced budget in the medium term . such a leverage in the budget for eu would complement the recently established stabilization mechanism for the euro ( the successor to the efsm ) and the mtfa . countries receiving assistance should be able to apply for the expected payment of the eu eu funds . on the basis of the application of the member state , the commission would be entitled to borrow from the capital markets under the implicit budget guarantee for eu , with the maximum amount set out in the unused ( pre-allocated ) structural and cohesion funds .
indeed , japan 's desire to continue killing whales is not less motivated by " emotion " than environmentalists ' resistance . it is not necessary to eat whales for health or for better nutrition of japanese . it 's a tradition they want to continue , probably because some japanese are emotionally attached to it . the japanese have one argument that can not be easily rejected . they claim that the west countries are facing whaling , as whales are special to them , as cows are for the back .
the abolition of taxes on realised gains in capital increased significantly by selling shares . international equity funds have entered the market and have provided companies with urgent liquidity , while at the same time removing the traditional ownership network . the bacteria , the inc. , is on the last leg of the leg . the good news is that the germany 's overblown glomerates are reduced to an efficient size , and that the capital market can do its job and improve the distribution of resources . the bad news is that financial capital is moving abroad to fund other overblown conglomerates .
the talks will likely be interrupted ; we will be back in two years , but with a flood of reproach and distrust . even if such developments are not present , it is not desirable to drift in the direction of the wind . north korea could use the time to increase the number of nuclear weapons in its arsenal , and improve its warheads and supply systems without testing . there is a great difference between the north korean armed with several ineffective warheads and several dozen modern weapons , which could be mounted on the long-range missile systems that could reach us . at this point , any realistic policy must be adopted , taking into account the fact that the complete and fully verifiable rendition is not a realistic prospect .
fortunately , bond markets are dead , and it may take a year to revive them . their absence makes it difficult to invest too much money in russian securities . something fundamental has changed in the russian economy , and it is not a good thing . there will be a time when all disasters occur , and all idities will be recognized . for russia , the wind 1998 line marked the dividing line of the line .
they walked , busily , and they rode in wagons , on the phone and tweeted with the compatriots , partly motivated by social demands - especially for their own support . the contrast between this dynamic space for open protests and saudi arabia could hardly be a star . saudi women are found to live in a fossilised system , and they do n't know what else . the royal family 's faces are all over the place , the faces of women cloaked in mist and hidden . we do n't see any other kind of modernity as a problem .
in this case , you will have to forget all known economic benefits of the global division of labor . among these two extreme levels is the world 's most important , characterized by regional integration projects such as eu or north american trade agreements . we can find significant changes in capitalism 's history for two centuries . for example , the repeal of the corn law in uk in 1846 has favored the free market for international trade and accelerated globalization until world war i. at wwi , the pendulum swung back to the state , and the pendulum was moving back .
the japanese have a strong international reputation in the area of natural disasters in the area of natural disasters . but the " perfect storm " of the biggest earthquake and tsunami since industrialization , and the resulting meltdown of three reactors in the fukushima daiichi factory , has exceeded any scenario that has ever been planned . the national government and local communities of japan did not plan for the situation in which they were exposed to contaminated areas , and they led to ad hoc responses , marked by inefficiency and inadequate communication , in particular with regard to radiological risks . despite these problems , effective measures have been taken to evacuate those who are at risk and to limit the potential danger of food consumption . the local community has initiated immediate decontamination of sensitive areas outside evacuated areas ( e.g. kindergartens and schools ) , and has also attempted to create a technology for the repair of nuclear energy in these areas .
today , when the kirchner and vez are out of the picture , the leftist populism is closing . the successor of chávez , nicolás maduro , lacks experience and influence in foreign affairs . the successor to kirchner , the widow cristina fernner , is struggling . she recently suffered a severe defeat in recent primary primary primary primary primary primary primary primary primary parties , weakening her chances of future elections in congress , and undermining her authority during the remaining two years of office . in addition , she is now facing legislative elections in poor health , after surgery , so that she can remove a subdural hematoma .
the three new agencies will not only enforce common technical standards , but they may be binding throughout the euro area , if they are approved by the european commission , but they will also be able to resolve disputes between national supervisors . more importantly , if the council had declared a financial emergency - such as the current situation - the agencies of eu would be able to gain a dominant position over national supervisory authorities . there is no need to say that " disputes " and " emergencies " are exactly the most important for national policymakers and taxpayers . if decisions about the system 's important national financial institutions are made at a european level in a timely manner , while national taxpayers will not collect the account , the whole package will be lost . in good times , we probably would n't have known the difference , but the grim fact is that such a deal would not prevent a new crisis .
this week , two other schoolboys were attacked in the school , one in the girls ' school , the other in the school , where they were beaten and bombed , and the other in the next school , where they sprayed bullets . the number of victims in both attacks is unknown , and the number of victims is still unknown . but the cause is too familiar : there is a war against education . in conflict zones , more than 28 million children are growing , including places such as the border between africa and pakistan , the edge of myanmar and south sudan . they 're all vulnerable to extreme violence , and they 're not going to let them go .
one hopes that this task has been somewhat simplified by the publication of the book , in which economists in the copenconsensus are cooking their conclusions . one fact is to consider : the total number of deaths per month from southeast asian tsunami is equal to the number of victims of hiv / aid . a comprehensive prevention program that provides condoms and information about safe sex to the regions that are most affected by hive-aid measures would cost 27 billion dollars and would save more than 28 million lives . this , let 's say , say , economists who participated in the agreement on the copenen.europa.eu , make the world the best possible investment . the social benefits would be compared to the costs of the first quarter of the year .
louis uchitelle of new york often offers highly intelligent cainists , commenting on the " common relationship ... between us and its trading partners , " which may be " the last " because " we and its main trading partners have a stake in the present state . " the value of the dollar is relatively high , and the central banks have accumulated nearly $ 2 trillion in dollar-denominated assets . china 's government considers the threat of capital losses for dollar-denominated securities as less important than the need to maintain almost full employment in coastal manufacturing cities such as shanghai . after all , the ruling communist oligarchs have grown accustomed to a comfortable life . the last thing they want is mass unemployment and urban unrest that will challenge their position .
washington , dc - it 's not long ago that financial supervision and monetary policy have been divided into many countries . some countries - like the united kingdom and australia - have taken these functions so far , and they have signed up to financial stability for specialised agencies and have completely abolished their central banks from financial supervision . but the consequences of the global financial crisis have been forced to reunite the financial and macroeconomic management . this rapid reduction is due to an increasing recognition that the asset-price cycles must be taken into account in macroeconomic management and financial supervision . many of the asset-price cycles were seen before the crisis , essentially harmless , or at least as a relatively insignificant channel of monetary-policy .
seoul - if you chase two rabbits at once , the old saying goes off , they 'll both escape . but that is exactly what many governments have to do : to continue growth and distribution justice . the two objectives , although they are not incompatible , differ entirely from each other , and few policy tools can help achieve both of them . this idea is a lot of important in trade policy , and it 's not going to be easy . many theoretical and empirical research shows that opening trade can spur growth in the country .
the tip of the tip is not just about us and the place where we 're going . mexico has already had a deal with eu and canada is negotiating with him . at some point , nafta and ttip will have to be harmonised . meanwhile , the other countries in the world - still accounting for half the world 's gdp and the bulk of the world 's trade and the fdi - are wondering how the tip of the tip would affect them . one of the options proposed by my former colleague , former representatives of the carla mountains , is that a successful tip would be a major impetus for rekindle the moribund doha for global free-trade talks .
sovereign states are actually throwing a larger share of their public debt into the balance sheet of banks , especially in the eurozone . in order to avoid the unorderly outcome of the eurozone , the current fiscal austerity should be much more gradual , the growth package should be supplemented by the new fiscal compact , and it is necessary to consider the fiscal union with debt mutualization . unfortunately , many of these key policy measures are in place , as they are determined by the credit risk to which taxpayers will be exposed to greater economic , fiscal , and banking integration . as a result , the likelihood of a disaster in the eurozone is growing . and while the eurozone cloud may be the biggest blow , it is not the only threat to the world economy .
this so-called " string of pearls " strategy threatens indian national-security interests , and thus makes it possible to create a strong bilateral relationship that would benefit both countries from the impossibility . china , of course , claims that its intentions toward india are peaceful , and that it is not a good thing to do . for example , he claims that his efforts to set up bases in the indian ocean and strengthen the navy of blue water are to protect the straits of malacca , the maritime trade route , which is considered to be a choke point for the chinese economy . but the measures speak louder than words - and the message that china 's behaviour is sending is far from peaceful . indeed , chinese leaders seem to use the opening of the open space provided by the undeveloped united states to control the vast expanse of asia 's oceans .
europe 's opponents of the map for ukraine and george claim that neither country is willing to join . there are too many questions about their national unity , there are too many internal conflicts , and their records of political and judicial reforms are likely to be dubious . but the map does not mean that the right to membership of the map is automatically respected . on the contrary , the maps would require heavy demands for the ukraine and george . both would have to answer many difficult questions and convince others that they could live up to the democratic needs of nato before they were allowed to join .
but as a donald trump , it was a pen of le , which was a " voice of people , " while macron , like the top of the hill , was depicted as a puppet of bankers , cultural elites and international feathers . so what does it mean to the left and right , if anything else ? there is no doubt that something has changed in the last 20 years . the left wing of the party began to lose - in some countries faster than others - the base of their industrial working class . the redistribution of wealth has become less important than social emancipation of ethnic minorities and minorities .
one danger is that north korea will have a considerable arsenal over the next few years , which will threaten us significantly . another is that north korea 's neighbors , including south korea and japan , will also find that they need nuclear weapons , given the north korean threat , and their confidence in the reliability of the two of us and their security measures to protect them from nuclear weapons . the danger in both regions is that the race to acquire nuclear weapons could cause a preventive war . even if such a war had been avoided , the presence of nuclear weapons would increase the temptation for one or more countries to strike first in the crisis . " use them or lose them " means that they can become a recipe for instability and conflict , if they are not strong enough to absorb the attack , and yet they can absorb the kind of devastating retaliation that is essential for effective deterrence .
at the summit in 2013 , president barack obama showed that china 's president xi was playing with evidence that members of chinese military were stealing industrial technology . the chinese have accepted the evidence , they have agreed that the theft of industrial technology is different from other espionage , and they have said that chinese government will not help in the future . since this is not enough to prevent the theft of civilian and military technology , the new law points out that the government will take further steps to stop it . when it comes to specific trade policies , the ss points out that we will " eliminate trade barriers and provide american citizens with the opportunity to increase exports . " this emphasis on increasing exports is welcome , not reducing imports .
many chinese mistakenly concluded that this was a shift in the balance of global power and that we were in decline . but these narratives can lead to a conflict , and they do n't know what to do . indeed , excessive confidence in assessing its power has led to more assertive chinese foreign policy behaviour in the second half of 2009 and 2010 . china miscalculated by deviating from the smart strategy of increasing energy and breaking the dictum of denise , so china should proceed with caution and " skilfully maintain a low profile . " after chinese leaders faced international criticism and deteriorated relations with us , japan , india and other countries decided to return to deng 's smart-power strategy .
but the country has gotten into trouble since then , and has become a beneficiary of the record breaking support of international monetary funds . argentina has returned to crisis for a simple reason , which has not changed since the last debacle . the country 's economic and financial foundations , as such , are still vulnerable to internal and external shocks . although these plans have been committed to an ambitious reform programme , the financial and economic authorities have prevented several mistakes . fiscal discipline and structural reforms have not been uniformly applied , and the central bank has largely reduced its credibility .
economists have tried to predict that the future will have a better outcome ; few of them have predicted the depth of the recession , even when it has begun . the problem is that many of the main indicators used to measure the economy depend on incomplete , incomplete or incorrect data . for example , forecasters calculate the real gdp according to quarterly gdp estimates - a statistic that is often significantly revised when more data are available . as a result , the forecast is lag behind the reality , and it is not possible to predict it . in the third quarter of 2008 , less than 30 % of the leading casters , who were involved in the survey of professional forecasters , predicted a decline in the number of gdp in the remaining months of the year , and in the fourth quarter of 2008 , the gdp fell by 8 % , which was one of the biggest losses recorded .
the first major conflict is a struggle in kosovo , which , at the very least , does not include strategy , territory , population , natural resources , or ideology . the west is fighting for principles , wars , as president clinton said , " to end a moral tragedy . " the problem is to stop the epidemic , whose carriers were nazism , communism , fascism , and now nationalism . for the first time , nato intervened in the internal affairs of another country . this is a fundamental change in the nato policy , which reduces the idea of sovereignty and elevates ethical norms in international relations .
the building codes are already wary of the danger , such as fire and earthquakes . far-sighted governments in places like germs and singapore are now mandating green buildings . politicians know that governments are involved in the mandate of regulations to create a level playing field and help build industry capacity . the latest standards for building and equipment of california are expected to prevent five large power plants in the next 10 years . the building has been in force for decades , so today 's decision has long-term effects on energy consumption .
however , the effort to avoid american strategy has clearly failed , as new un sanctions have been implemented at the beginning of this month . since the deal was meant to avoid the nuclear standoff with iran , why did we get so upset about the west ? i 'm afraid it 's because we have denied its primacy in establishing global policy on ireland . instead of trying to find out the possibilities offered by the opening of the brazilianski / turkish , we quickly pushed the un security council into more penalties ( the fourth round ) for ireland . this forced turkey and brazil , currently unpermanent members of the security council , to vote against the decision to impose sanctions .
they chose to divide debt to gdp in the following categories : in 30 % , 60-90 % , 60 % and 90 % . and it turns out that growth rates are falling in all of these categories , as the ratio of debt to gdp is increasing , but only slightly higher in the last category . there is also a question of reverse causality , and the question of why it is not possible . debt ratios tend to increase in countries that are in a difficult economic situation . if this is a reason why higher debt ratios correspond to lower economic growth , it is not possible to assume that countries should avoid a higher ratio , since the main theory of fiscal austerity would undermine economic performance rather than strengthen it .
thanks to policies that make people and businesses transition to immature technologies , growth will slow and reduce energy poverty . that 's why the world is much more behind its " energy transition " than most people realise . the wind and solar energy supply about 1 % of the total energy . the popular energy expert at the gate of the bill bill bill says that " the rapid transition to zero carbon society is nonsense , " adding that " even a very rapid shift to renewable energy sources would not be able to relegate fossil fuels to minority contributors to global energy supplies at any time , not by 2050 . " many of today 's panicky political declarations and protests on climate change are driven by the general belief that the united states intergovernmental government on climate change ( ipcc ) has told us that we have only 12 years left to save the planet .
fewer africans who work in rich countries automatically translate into less money in the african countries . but the decline in transfers will cut both ways of the transfer of funds . transfers have long accelerated inflation in many parts of africa , but they have not yet been able to achieve any changes . for example , a ugandan doctor who works in the norway does n't care about the price of beer in kampala . he is also willing to pay more than a local doctor for the service , and , of course , a home in uganda .
by contrast , in europe , greater weight is being achieved in order to avoid risks that underscore private confidence in investing in innovation . the aim of the eu eu programme - to protect human health and the environment - is laudable . but it is not possible to mitigate all risks , so it is not possible to achieve that goal . rather , the precautionary principle should be used judiciously and rationally , while balancing the potential risks to the benefits that innovation and new technologies can offer . this notion of risk is based on the economic interaction of the product and the risks associated with it .
ramallah - the palestinians and israelis have different expectations , and , where appropriate , contradictory expectations from indirect negotiations that the united states have pushed both sides into the beginning . among the first parties , israel welcomed the hesitant decision of the arab league to support the palestinian president mahmoud abbas 's request for arabs to bless the talks . it is clear that , for the prime minister of israeli , the right-wing government of the internet will begin indirect talks without freezing the settlement in the west bank , and the jeris will be winning . to remind the world of this , when indirect talks were prepared to get out of the country , the island government approved the decision to break down 112 residential units in a settlement south of the city and 1600 new settlement units in east jerjerjerry . for the palestinians , the return to talks , albeit indirectly , is aimed at one of the strategic issues : border borders .
while the moral hazard argument is underlined by the orthodox command , " you will not intervene , " the main element of globalization is market failures . unlike moral hazard , the market failure points to the circumstances in which government intervention is socially desirable and economically defensible . the fact that international capital markets have caused sudden and devastating outflows after 1996 is only one of these events . consider other devastating events that are uninsured ( often uninsured ) in the private sector . for example , floods , hurricanes , earthquakes and tornadoes immediately help federal people .
thus , while the european countries remained democratic , the instead of the institutions , where sovereignty was transferred to decisive decisions , remained democracy-free . as the garet explained during the last parliamentary appearance , the british prime minister , who controls money and interest rates , controls the european politics . the euro 's money and policy of the cartel 's governance did not only spell out the end of europe 's democracy , but it also supported a vicious cycle of authoritarianism and bad economic results . the more europe 's establishment is to prevent democracy , the less legitimate its political authority will be . that leads europe 's leaders to double authoritarianism , and to keep their failed policies in place when recessionary economic forces are strengthened .
tokyo - the size of the earthquake and tsunami that struck japan in the march was much larger than the worst forecasts of the authorities . it is difficult to estimate the total damage in half a year . the social unrest and confusion , as well as the radiation leak from the nuclear power plant fukushima , continue . and now the country has taken another big blow : another reduction in its bond rating . moody 's and standard & poor are now only at the fourth highest level of japanese bonds .
even if the irania 's accuracy was not guaranteed , many of them could still avoid defensive systems . for example , the state-of-the-art anti-missile defense system of the israel was unable to neutralize all primitive missiles fired from the gaza . in addition , the irish regime has created a network of proxy forces across the region . syria and iraq have become a key link in the strategic arc of the iran-led shia , which extends from afghermia to lbanon . the regime 's representative forces include parts of the population of afghanistan , iraq 's shia militias and hezbollah , which control southern lebanon , and thousands of rockets ready to target the island .
it is also important to note that , in every screening of his film , viewers must apologize before they begin to talk about rasheed as a filmmaker , rather than as a representative of his country . " personally , i do n't ask for anything , i 'm here to clarify some confusion in the middle of the film . " iraq , ravaged by war , and now shaken by violence , is known as the most sensible of the arab countries . as iraq and other muslim intellectuals often repeat : " they are written in an egypt , printed in lebanon and read in iraq . " we hope that rapping and his colleagues will continue to create an iraqi culture that is vibrant and free , and we hope that the relationship between us and the international audience , which will be accompanied by a harsh note , is one of the tasks of his work .
complicating china 's further involvement , a rush to open the market economy has driven corruption and rent-seeking . and , as the recent experience of the post-crisis euro has shown , it is politically difficult to carry out structural reforms in the event of a vested interest in the interests of the regulatory system . that is why chinese president xi jinping has been involved in a comprehensive anti-corruption campaign - often misrepresented as a power outage - since 2012 . china 's problems are still beyond structural imbalances , and two types of macroeconomic risks are associated with cyclical risks . the first risk stems from the business cycle of advanced market economies , where interest rates , inflation rates , and growth rates are rising and falling .
moreover , trade is also a major benefit for society , which is why it is a great benefit . economic globalization has shown that the child 's mortality is reduced and extended by the hope of life , owing to higher incomes and better information . trade in the last half-century has significantly increased long-term life . in uganda , it has been shown that the average lifespan of free trade in the last 35 years is extended by 2-3 years . what 's more , " free trade is good for the environment , " quote one academic study .
permanent structured cooperation in the field of defense - approved by the european council on december 2 - is a good place to start , for example , with countries that are developing joint strategic planning at the european union level . the german chancellor anela merkel 's recent proposal to tie the funding for the adoption of immigrants should also be developed in order to strengthen cooperation . it is not clear that 27 sovereign countries are difficult to act as one . but , while tempting , trying to explain differences or avoid dissent - let alone destroy the compact core of the european project - it will not make it easier . the only way to get europe to go is to make a realistic and gradual effort to build unity .
the media must be under attack as ever , not just from false reports and polarizing presidents . the killing of nine journalists in kabul on april 30 , in the wake of the bombings that killed at least 25 people , marked the most murderous day for journalists in the morning , and added to a terrible global record . in the last 15 years , more than a thousand journalists have been murdered , and only a handful of perpetrators have been brought to trial . the sun is shining again , and yet the fresh flashes of hope are multiplying . journalists and their supporters are fighting in the world to support them .
seven decades ago , the world 's developed world accounted for most of the world 's income , but only 15 % of its population . billions of people are now being removed from poverty , richer , healthier , and more opportunities . historians may well remember this period as the most important exercise of human inclusiveness . but it 's not so long ago , and nobody has seen him coming . this unanticipated megatrend has unforeseen corollaries , and it is not expected to be expected .
for example , in the 1980 " s , the soviet leadership warned that any reform would allow germany to control the country . indeed , he answered the growing rise of an opposition by using them as tools of western power , following horses for american or german interests , which would eventually be used by ordinary poles . the communist government has also underlined how incoherent this opposition is , because of tensions caused by the marriage of economic liberals , leftist workers , conservative catholic and nationalists . i was concerned about who supported them , who helped to drive wedges between different groups . the recent call for more assertive leadership by the foreign minister radosław sikorski demonstrates how different world views are today .
the inter-parliamentary union is japan 158 of 189 countries relative to the ratio of women 's mps . it is equally bad at lower levels of government , where women are only 13.1 % of local parliaments , 40 % of which do not have women . as a leader of a liberal democratic party , abe should instruct local parties to select a more suitable candidate for the next election . but at least it seems to me that abe has not yet had enough will ( though he may choose to work with the local party 's bosses at the scene to bring more women into the game ) . it is also worrying that some of the women 's abe have chosen the cabinet and the key party posts are the arch-conservatives who support women staying at home and taking care of children .
we have long lived our deepest wishes , and the health and economic progress offers hope that it will be fulfilled . some scientists claim that average length of human life could reach a maximum of 90 years . but what if we get our wish ? - what if we do n't give it to you . what good will it be for longer if we do n't keep our living standards ? the basic problem of planning for longer life is that we do n't know if it really happens .
in the introduction of a new governance style , which is exemplified by cabinet appointments , jokowi must be careful not to alienate political and business elites who have long benefited from their tight influence . in short , if jokowi is to form a national consensus on institutions that need indonesia , it must reach this political divide . to that end , mexican president peter nieto 's cross-party " pact for mexico " could serve as a useful model . he has a reputation for independence from partisan and religious politics and talent for communicating with people . and as a political stranger , he is in a unique position to direct indonesia to a more prosperous and united future - and to be safe in the pantheon of the great leaders .
and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur . after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years .
the imf is too political for the authorities to act as a system watchdog . the next g-20 summit should be implemented by a fundamental reform of the framework programme . he should give the fsb a legal personality , he should be enshrined in an international agreement . the board currently has no formal status , and only small , albeit high-quality , permanent staff , are held by the bank for international settlement in the basel . draghi 's successor , as chairman , should be appointed full-time , and the federal reserve should be given the power to manage other standard setters , review the implementation of standards by individual countries and publish results .
the case also attracted attention to the west , but it was not so clear . dozens of pop stars , from pete city and paul mccartney to madonna , were rallied to support women . of course , the riot in pussy could n't be classified as musicians , but it was n't possible . they were more interested in the creation of visual images , and they were more interested in them . the feminist singing and primitive chords were the secondary object of the spectacle .
the oil industry has rejected these claims and has voiced fines on companies that have expired . in the early 1990 " s , nigeria negotiated contracts , which enabled oil companies to develop new fields and recoup their investments before profits were divided . now , as soon as the company finds a huge reserve , the technology that yar 's adua has appointed to take charge of oil policy is needed by nigeria to get a bigger slice of pie . this also means ending government co-financing of operational costs and demanding that oil companies use capital markets to bridge the decline . moreover , tony chukwueke , the head of the dpr , announced that he would set up a petronas , a state-owned oil company malaysia , and that he would turn a sclerotic nigerian oil company into a strong oil company that would dominate the market for guinea pigs and other emerging regions .
moscow - after september 11 , 2001 , the so-called " war on terror " was launched . but the military invasion of afghanistan and iraq was not all over it , many countries have also raised the control and control of the media and the media . the freedom of expression and personal privacy , as the government said , would have to be limited in the interests of security . the damage was particularly pronounced in russia , where anti-terrorism regulations were often used as a tool to dampen the voices of those who had provided independent or alternative opinions , especially those who were critical to the president 's vladimir government . by using security as an excuse to violate russian media legislation , which explicitly protects journalists from censorship , the government has significantly undermined journalism .
but as edward burke pointed out , " your representative owes you not only to his industry , but also to his judgment , but also to betray you , but also to serve you , if he sacrifices it in your opinion . " in important respects , populist campaigns in major referendums have changed this year . for example , the colombian opponents of peace have applied for the general standards of justice for war crimes committed by the military and the farce , not for national specificities , such as uk and netherlands . but they all motivated the desire to scuttle the governments and institutions they oppose . and they all wanted to follow the tradition of dictators and resort to smears , distortions and fantastic demands .
a young man in a book , allen , an anxious intellectual who still has a girl , is a model of the role . but now that we know the allegations against the director of comedian and film , we are forced to reconsider the work in this light . there may be something sinister and immoral in the films we should take into account . in other words , bad behavior or even bad behaviour can lead to art work , because it is not possible to separate the artist from his art . this is at least more interesting than the idea of being disqualified just because we do n't like how artists behave in private .
the prosecution of public officials and the prosecution of officials is also carried out . the former president of guatemala , otto rez molina , had to resign and was jailed for corruption . the speaker of indonesia , setya novanto , was also forced to resign when he was caught trying to get the money out of his subsidiary 's subsidiary , freeport-mcmoran . and the special court of indonesia for the criminal offences has just condemned the former minister of energy and mineral resources of the country to four years imprisonment . journalism has also played a larger role in the press , and it is also a matter of fact .
most economists agree to the ideal mix and the subsequent sequencing of these manoeuvres . the so-called " beautiful de-leveraging " means a combination of internal reforms , financing and judicious use of market pricing mechanisms . but what seems to be good in theory is difficult to implement in practice . politicians are more likely to continue to rely on financial resources , thus increasing the risk of disorderly market adjustments than difficult structural reforms and fiscal adjustments . for this reason , many countries have suffered a painful disruption that could have prevented them from doing so , causing an increase in unemployment , and in the worst cases a worsening potential growth has worsened .
stanford - in march , the german tabloid bild issued an article on the basis of a secret document , which reveals how the areas of the east region are " treated as part of the country 's sovereign territory . " the revelations have brought peace negotiations to the minsk 2 , which illuminates the frustration of the ukrainian government . the document , which was delivered by bild , is a report from the october meeting of russia 's " inter-ministerial commission for providing humanitarian assistance to the affected areas in the southeast of donetsk and luhansk . " it describes how participants in the meeting did not only focus on humanitarian aid , but rather as a shadow government . working groups of russian authorities have been set up to manage the region 's finances , economic policy , energy infrastructure and transport infrastructure .
let 's also be clear about " renegotiation of membership , " the refuge of those who want to go , but they want to convince people that it 's just a way to change our relationship . when the " adjustment " is very rough ( as it is ) , they say , " it is a shame , but it seems like the adjustment is not enough . " if britain is focusing on how he can help europe recover and prosper for several years , but rather how he can change his relationship with europe , he should no doubt be in the mood and mind of the current partners . there will be different degrees of courtesy in the area of the city , and the number of people will be different . but they wo n't be thanking us , and they wo n't be able to help us .
it also deprives the continent of talent and contributions needed to promote development and progress . in 2011 , african development bank report found that " the fact that women are being put into science and technology is promising to benefit society as a whole . " gender equality in stem is achievable and many african scholars show how to do it . but they need help and programs that offer scholarships and support are the best way to achieve parity in science . the causes of the imbalance between male and african men and africa are often compared to the most obvious causes : the girls begin with interest and skills , but they are losing their skills in different places .
and , however , the world 's currency may sound , remember , before the war , that the gold standard was released , it seemed unlikely . the current system is risky , and it is ineffective to use it as a result of its effectiveness . different monies are not just unpleasant for tourists who come home with pockets full of unremarkable foreign coins . global businesses waste time and resources on a largely futile effort to hedge the risks of currency ( which only benefit banks acting as intermediaries ) . the benefits of removing the world of national currencies would be huge , and the benefits of these currencies would be huge .
what they have not done is to engage in a comprehensive counter-proposal by the international community . their offer , which would have to go much further than the peace initiative of 2002 , or a portfolio of relevant united resolutions , could even include a key plan for the transition to final settlement . in the past , transitional agreements have been linked to george orwell , who called " catastrophic graduation . " but if a strong economic strategy is included , it may be " auspicious graduate . " after all , economic development would be a long way to stabilize the palestinian society in preparing for state sovereignty , and drastically strengthen the chances of a long-term success in the settlement .
by contrast , the caning of kartika is not an example of political manipulation , and therefore it may be even more disturbing . her sentence was deeply supported by the modernized muslim intellectuals , who insisted that the punishment was applied correctly and could not be questioned , since it is a divine punishment . these are not politicians , but former idealists , who are happy to realise their goals of islamicizing the state . most of them are anti-umno , and they support the pas , and they do n't want to be involved . as a result , the umno is being pushed between the islamic lobby , which is pushing for more " taliban banization " of the country and rising voices of international critics , which can not be ignored , as the party needs radical supporters and foreign investors to remain in power .
of course , we would have to respond to any tripartite tripartite northeast of asia to maintain its own role in global trade - and in supply chains that dominate the asian economy . it would likely want to extend and deepen the infant transpacific partnership , a trade agreement that president barack obama has committed to us for the last year . in particular , we would strongly support the japan to join the tpp , as we would like to unite the pacific economic community , not the division between asia and pacific . because japan would not want us to be disconnected for strategic reasons , he could accept america 's invitation . in this scenario , the japanese and south korea would have to find some way to bridge sino-neutral asia and the pacific .
as a prime minister of the european union , the european ecb is able to play a leading role in the debate on fiscal policy , trade policy and demographic developments . but , while he quietly contributes to various discussions with several technical contributions , he is politically hemmed , and thus can not reach his power . this is an unfortunate restriction of the proposal of the ecb group of states that have not yet decided whether they prefer greater unity or greater devolution . the basic problem for the boj is its deep institutional fear of political rocking the ship , and thus its inability to play a major economist . as a result , today 's us president , who is fed by america , commands a super-normal influence .
these results were foreshadowed by a study of anna 's case and gus deaton , which proved that life expectancy was a decline in the population 's decline - including the so-called angry men of america 's so-called " rack . " but , as the lower 90 % incomes stagnated almost for the third century ( and their share decreased ) , health data simply confirmed that it was not a good thing for a large part of the country . and while america could be at the extreme rate of this trend , things were not better elsewhere . but if it was clear that political consequences would be expected , their form and timing would be much less obvious . why did the backlash come when the economy seemed to be on the mend rather than before ?
in addition to the annapolis talks , which do not seem to be happening anywhere , as there are irreconcilable differences between the parties to the main issues , the rest of the peace effort is more tactical than strategic . none of them yet exists for immediate action from war to peace , and the parties themselves do not expect it to happen . it would require bold statesmanship to make a cease-fire with hamas in a pre-lude to political talks . indeed , the israel and united states are adamant about the exclusion of hamas from the annapolis , unless and until they recognize the right of israel , while hamas will not give up their identity as a resistance movement , only to join negotiations that seem unlikely to satisfy the minimum demands of the people of the palestinian population . the cease-fire with the hamas reflects its reluctance to be put into another asymmetric war , as he fought two years ago in lidon , this time in the alleyway of the refugee camps of gaza .
in particular , the european union 's biggest economic power and france , the european union 's intellectual progenitor , should announce their current departure from the euro and re-adoption of the deutsche and franc . this would immediately trigger an immediate revaluation of the deutsche mark - and possibly the franc - relative to the euro . member states would have to decide whether to keep the euro in its uncated form or return to their national currencies , possibly to refer them to a revived deutsche or franc . regardless of their decision , the eurozone 's weak economies " competitiveness would have improved significantly . of course , the division and germany would have to introduce interim measures to ensure the stability of their banking systems .
so the islamic revolutionaries in 1979 were about to maintain the zoroastrian temples . in the muslim era , ian boasted about the world 's greatest poets , writers and scientists . none of this would be possible if the ancient muslim rulers of ian had not allowed the free exchange of ideas and expressions to be released - something that is now missing in the islamic republic . other autocratic rulers in the muslim world learn from an example of ian , who are hard to understand intellectuals , journalists , lawyers , women 's activists , or anyone who has any ideas , and wants to talk to them . for such muslim rulers , intellectuals are new terrorists who bombard their regime of intellectualism .
the leadership group would therefore be an important public demonstration of the commitment of governments to address and address key issues and would be desperately needed to translate their resolve into action . his direct relationship with president barack obama , russian president vincent clinton , and european leaders would be able to distinguish him from the existing arrangements . the first group of leaders could , for example , be representatives of a central group of states - for example , france , germany , italy , country , country , russia , russia , russia , russia , russia , russia , and the united kingdom , and the united states - directly connected to their presidents and prime ministers . in order to ensure broad membership and transparency in the entire euro area and within the existing structures , the group 's leadership should be represented by the osk , the european union , the eurasia , and the nato . the first priority of the leadership group would be to address the current crisis .
as some confidence returns to the recapitalised banking system , long-term yields fall , mortgage , and other credit rates fall , and monetary transfers will revive , support economic activity , and stabilize real estate prices , even if they are significantly lower . finally , there are two main differences between the 1930 " s and the present . the industrial world is now much more dependent on oil ( mostly foreign ) than it was then . the extreme increase in real oil prices was a major cause of the current recession , and its reverse reverse effect would be a major factor in the recovery of oil . the second fundamental difference is that we do n't know enough to repeat mistakes - especially trade protectionism - in the 1930 " s.
scientists are still surprised by the discovery , and billions of people have been removed from poverty . but on the horizon , the dark clouds were beginning to form , and the sky was still dark . the terrorists have avenged europe , and millions of refugees are fleeing wars and hunger . the populist movement has emerged , calling for closed borders and new walls , and their rejection of expertise has led to " grim truth " : of course , our expectations will always be in a lot of tension in the reality .
denver - the agreement on syria 's chemical weapons , which russia has reached , and the united states , is not so important for the ground - which , as inspectors begin to reach syria , is still to be seen , and we hope that the chemical stocks of weapons will be destroyed . rather , the main importance of the agreement is that it was all struck : we secretary of state john kerry met his russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , the most traditional diplomatic systems , and we agreed to a matter of intense mutual interest . in the next few weeks , weeks and months , we will begin with a new era in which we and russia will work together on other pressing global issues . the cooperation between russia and russia is essential if the international system is to work properly in the future , which is now almost unfunctional . the deal on syria could be different : americans might recognize that , lo , and behold , there are other ways to solve problems than dropping bombs .
the benefits of global capitalism are uneven , and they do not have a common influence . capital is much better than labor , as capital is more mobile than in the labor market . moreover , financial capital is better placed in the global system than in the industrial capital ; once there is a plant , it is difficult to move it . multinationals have the flexibility of transfer pricing and may exert pressure at the time of the new investment decision , but their flexibility is not comparable to the freedom of international portfolio investors . it is also beneficial to be in the middle of a global economy , not on the periphery .
i have long failed to watch a five-year pre-emptive price for a lack of access based on basic foundations to think about the balance price of oil . as i explained in january 2015 , the price of oil at the base of the oil market is less speculative , and thus is more likely to approximate the underlying factors of trade supply and demand . the table , which was made before the latest acceleration of oil prices in early november , shows that the price of oil in the five years ahead of oil is increased after a certain stability . with the price of the spot , which has now exceeded the price of five years ahead , it is possible to conclude that there is a change in trend . i 'm not sure , but i would n't be surprised if it happened .
however , the only reason why dpj is against the ldp is his anti-ldp stance , while the sdp has long opposed the security treaty of japan and the pnp strongly opposes privatization of the coizumi era . this does not mean a coherent government program , and the prime minister yukio hatoyama 's leadership quickly revealed the basic sanctity of the dpj . but the biggest problem with hatoyama 's government is that the dpj has taken power without coherent national security measures . this should n't surprise anyone , but i 'm sure it 's not a surprise . in 1998 , the dpj was founded as a party of jambalaya , which was composed of people who had abandoned the ldp , including hatoyama and former socialist party .
preparation of effective defense of the state is unthinkable without greater or less participation in all state institutions . in a democratic state , these efforts are only in the sense that society understands the importance of defense . it is therefore necessary to remind ourselves of the fact that defending the state is meant to defend the dignity of all of us . the new republic of the region , which is not yet faced with any particular or visible enemy . as a result , many people consider spending on defense as luxury , if not waste their money .
more investments could enable scientists to discover new microbial strains with unique skills that could affect the health of the soil and the health of the crops at the local level , and thus to reduce the natural environment of africa in order to improve agricultural productivity . greater investments in soil research could also benefit from the benefits of spillover in the african economy . with new discoveries leading to patents and licenses , research could lead to the creation of new agri-businesses and agricultural sectors . i can personally vouch for the benefits of spillover from this kind of research . my own work on microbes in auburn has led to the issue of patents by three of us , and several agricultural companies are pursuing the right to sell products from technology .
in america 's equation , it was us , not iran , who carried out strict ideological diplomacy . iran supported us during the first gulf war , but was not at the peace conference . iran has also supported america in its war to depose the taliban in afghanistan . and when we were in the spring of 2003 , the forces of the saddam hussein 's army were overrun , the iranians proposed a great deal , which would put all the problematic problems on the table from the nuclear issue to the island , from hezbollah to the hamas . the irish have also pledged to stop the israeli-arab peace process .
at the same time , we have long pursued the military superiority of the military . in 2002 , it unilaterally abolished the 1972 anti-ballistic missile agreement . and recently , it has embarked on a massive build-up of conventional forces and extensive modernization of nuclear weapons . still , russia , china and the rest of the world will not allow us to return . putin recently explained this by creating a range of new strategic weapons systems , which are at the edge of what i call a " preventive deterrent strategy . "
but in the copenen.europa.eu , the structure of the lisbon contract was not established . in addition to the failure of copper , there are other problems in the eu eu eu eu . it is generally seen as arrogant , petulant and prim in the world . his all-knowing attitude is almost everywhere , and he 's almost everywhere , and he 's not going to change anything . only 7 % of the world 's population ( and rapidly dwindling ) , and is composed primarily of low-economic growth , is increasingly considered marginal .
but even larger companies have a greater ability to become a force for good , whether at the local and global level . if the company decides not to make a wasteful packaging , its purchasing power will lead to a change in the packaging of the entire retail sector . the same is true of wage and labor practices , and the same is true . when the world 's biggest companies and most respected brands take a serious responsibility for buyers , sellers and manufacturers , and they undertake to act decisively on basic values , others tend to follow - or risk being kept behind . those who act ethical and seek to improve the lives of all who are associated with the production , marketing and distribution of products will benefit kudos , businesses , or simply are not selected as a bad actor .
the current approach of western countries is simply not working , and it is not working . this can be seen in my country clearly , in pakistan , in pakistan , in the us . despite a massive increase in aid in recent years , including billions of approved former president barack obama , we are largely excluded from the supply process . there are approximately 70 separate local aid offices and 40 international national national national organisations involved in the provision of aid to pakistanis . but most decisions about how to spend money are made outside the country .
the same is true of the same corruption that the canadian government has secured the new pipeline for the export of oil from polluting and expensive sands to asia , while underinvesting in vast renewable energy sources of canada . francis told them that in his meeting with the ceos of major oil and gas companies , francis said : " we do n't want to secure energy for everyone , we do n't want to cause an undesired effect on the spiral of extreme climate change as a result of disastrous growth in global temperatures , more severe environments , and an increase in poverty . " he noted that oil companies are being " constantly searching for new fossil fuels , while the agreement on paris clearly urged the underground of most fossil fuels . " and he reminded the leaders that " civilization requires energy , but energy is not to destroy civilization ! " francis underscored the moral dimension of the problem : " what are you talking about ? "
and almost the same , always fatal disease , kuru , ravaged the original population of papua guinea pigs throughout the twentieth century . the kuru and the scrapie are an infectious virus , and they are not allowed to be infected . the kuru was carried out by cannibalistic rituals , which were common in papua , new guinea pigs until 1950 . in the same way , healthy cattle were fed up with meat and bone flour from infected cattle . the resulting epizootic ( animal disease ) has been affected by more than 280,000 cows .
this includes those who rely on bank loans and many mortgage holders with very high interest rates and balances that exceed the market value of their own housing . from all sides , the extreme point of this situation - in which people who do n't need credit need it , and those who do n't get it - is highly problematic . if the economic system is not paid for , it will lead to a gradual and accelerated recovery of the economic system , with the highest initial costs - a longer unemployment crisis and growth crisis - which is why those who are at least able to suffer it . in the next round , as the system is slowly collapsing , even those with a healthy balance sheet will be affected and accelerated by their disengagement with the ageing world economy . all of this slows down social mobility , calls for already-stretched safety networks , worsen inequality , and highlights real concerns about the functioning and sustainability of today 's global economic system .
everywhere else , for any reason - misguided strategies , tactical mistakes , false theories , intervention , etc. - they were only defeated , repression , and futility . at the start of the 1990 " s , it was increasingly clear that the armed struggle for power in latin america was over . there were only a few groups : a shining path in peru , a patriotic front of uel rodríguez , for a brief moment in chiapas , mexico and the farc in the colombia . democratic transitions throughout the hemisphere have made guerrilla warfare unjustifiable : in the country behind the country , guerrillas were defeated , pacified , brought to democratic proceedings , or did not become irrelevant .
the defeat of german germans in 1945 has collapsed , but less aggressive forms have lived elsewhere , such as argentina with peronism . the social basis for interwar fascism made sense to consider it a party of law . at the time , the working class was reliable supported by the parties to the left . the only political space left for fascism was small bourgeoisie : the buyers , the businessmen , and the low-ranking officials . today , the social basis for politics in the left wing has disappeared , and the entire process of political development has disappeared .
let 's assume that the decision before the tsipras was so crucial and complex that it deserved an exceptional step of the referendum . in such a case , the event should have taken into account the complexity of the case . it should have been a careful and deliberate sound from the will of people . it should have been organised and properly implemented in relation to the stakes involved , and the government should ensure that the greek people have provided adequate information . instead , he got a quick arranged referendum on the subject , greece .
there are clearly tensions between the physical integrity of religious freedom and the integrity of individuals , but also between parental rights and state authority , multiculturalism , and nationalism . in addition , the different communities prefer to prioritize human rights in a different way . for some , the moral framework offered by human rights is sufficient , but for others , as the brooking institution of william galston notes , " the language of human rights is hardly exhausting the realm of moral and spiritual goods . " in other words , culture plays a much greater role in shaping human rights than many others , which means that human rights experts should be careful about any practices of culture or religious roots . as cultural psychologist richard shweder noted , the circumcision has been a part of the conflict between the european union and the middle east .
there 's something new about the fifth sino-indian relationship . asia 's two giants have long defined their relationship with the famous pancha sheela : mutual respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty of each other , mutual non-aggression , mutual mutual mutual mutual mutual mutual interference in internal affairs , mutual equality and mutual benefits , and mutual calm cooperation . china 's new leaders have now spoken to the new pancha sheela , and president xi has proposed a five-point proposal for sino-indian relations . the updated principles would maintain strategic communication and healthy bilateral relations ; they would use each other 's strengths and expand cooperation in infrastructure , investments and other areas ; deepen cultural ties , deepen mutual understanding and mutual understanding ; india would be happy to accept all of these principles , and it would be a great pleasure to know .
25 years of bank money has tried to get the government out of agriculture , so poor peasants will take care of themselves . the result was a disaster in africa , and productivity stagnating for decades . the bank has also sought to privatize national health systems , water services , road and energy networks , and has significantly underfunded these critical sectors . this extreme ideology of the free market , which was also called " structural adjustment , " was contrary to practical experience in china and asia . in practice , the development strategy recognises that public investments in agriculture , health , education and infrastructure need to be supplemented by private investments .
putin 's authority may seem unshakeable , but it is in fact supported by propaganda and fear . when we betray our values to avoid challenging russia , it greatly strengthens putin 's hand . the perception that he 's got us on the ropes allows putin to keep quiet about his opponents . in the run-up to the presidential election next year , putin will not hesitate to use the leeway foreign leaders to use it . he has already ensured that the opposition leader alexei navalny was convicted of embezzlement and that the government had an excuse to defend him from the election .
with the move of energy prices , there is a danger that low-carbon investment will be further undermined . across europe , demand for " affordable energy " is rapidly becoming a euphemism for increased subsidies for fossil fuels and the return of green energy commitments . recent discussions in uk illustrate the emerging error lines , which are the only way to go . five years ago , britain broke the international form by adopting legislation that mandates 80 % of greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 . today , political leaders openly challenge " burdensome " taxes on green taxes .
indeed , for practical reasons , pro-market reforms are already dead , and they do not have a good chance of success . the government 's ptocracy , family and well-connected businessmen colonized the chinese state and intends to prevent reforms that could threaten their privileged status . moreover , the ccp can not rely on increasing prosperity in order to sustain public support . rampant corruption and rising inequality , together with obvious decomposition of the environment , cause ordinary chinese - especially the middle class , which once had high hopes of reforms - to become increasingly disillusioned . in light of the rapid aging of the population , china 's demographic dividend has largely dissipated .
in addition to another reasonably productive nuclear security summit in the oul in 2012 , the report on disarmament in the last year was bleak . further talks to reduce the country 's armed forces have stopped long before the presidential election begins . in the meantime , no other nuclear state has expressed any interest in bilateral or multilateral negotiations until two major powers , which currently have 95 % of the world 's stocks , are still significant . the first careful moves of us to adjust the theory of nuclear weapons - to accept that nuclear weapons " are the only purpose of responding to nuclear threats , and not to any other kind - have not gone anywhere . negotiations on " alert " of 2,000 nuclear weapons , which remain at absurdly dangerous , and the launch of a cold war era , have never really started .
during that process , he changed the country that was in the grip of drug barons and was about to become a failed state . the professionalism of the armed forces of colombia , along with the popularity of uribe and the growing economy , has been delivered for the first time in three decades , normality for cities of colombia , and , more and more and more , peace , and legal order for most of its vast jungle regions . indeed , many of the farce defectors now prefer to fight for their cause in the election box under the new left-wing polo alternativo democratico . but the benefits of uribe 's apparent defeat of farce extend far beyond the colombia . the hostage rescue mission forced vez to recover from the failed referendum on the power of the last year ( the moment when the high-ranking army of chávez , who was in charge of the troops , allegedly refused to withdraw the result ) , to defend the defense .
but the fact is that a significant proportion of 30 million displaced children in the world - of which 12 million refugees - will be able to pass through school years without being put in school . 75 million children are currently denied education and prospect of future employment . of course , international education will have to be increased , and that 's why we 're going to need to be more involved . but with a $ 40 billion annual financial deficit for primary and secondary education , we need a new approach . in addition to the mobilisation of private funds , we must make available assistance ( $ 13 billion in this year ) much more than it has ever been , and we must encourage governments to invest in education .
and , indeed , much of the debt of ece 's government has moved from banks to massive public institutions such as the central bank of europe and the international monetary fund . in this sense , these public authorities have largely benefited from the private sector . the risk was not eliminated , but it was not possible to eliminate the risks . the margin of error in the case of large banks and other financial institutions is very narrow . since these companies are still not significantly capitalised , they can threaten bank equity and banks " low losses from direct defaults and indirect losses .
for example , it would be appropriate to monitor how many people with high blood pressure were diagnosed and treated , how much of the treatment was achieved by blood pressure control , and how many of the required target would be to reduce the number of premature deaths . finally , the aid effort could be extended by strong advocacy and cooperation , which have been reconstructed in diagnostic and treatment programs . by forecasting the need for medication , aggregating orders and promoting competition , combined with strong advocacy , policy makers and suppliers were able to secure the efficiency of the market . the resulting economies of scale enabled suppliers to switch from low-volume , high-margin solutions to high-volume , low-profit models . as a result , these efforts have reduced the cost of annual hiv treatment in 2001 to less than $ 100 in 2016 .
just before the year 's trade talks in cancun , we made some concessions , so it was n't the only one who was out there . however , in bilateral trade agreements , we demand that the so-called travel and other cases be called " travel , " which would further strengthen intellectual property rights , so that only countries have the right to produce cheap generic medicines during epidemics and other emergencies . the overall consensus , which is reflected in the commission 's report , requires more exceptions , so that drugs can be available in any event where it can save lives . who is facing death is important to access drugs to life saving lives , not whether the killing is part of the epidemic . bilateral agreements form the basis for enhanced relations between countries and countries that are not in place .
meanwhile , the growth in china 's spending rate will not change significantly . as a result , chinese politicians are waiting for us to recover . if so , china 's exports will increase faster , and the number of exports will increase . and if exports are growing faster , they can afford to increase the number of renminbi . without this exchange rate adjustment , the rapid export growth would expose the chinese economy to a risk of excessive heating .
when i joined the imf in the early 1980s , discussions with non-government counterparts were discouraged , whether in the country or in politics . the situation is very different today , and it is very different for us to be here . the broader national engagement - with the ngos , the local media and the broad political group - is now regarded as an integral part of the effective implementation of the country 's recommendations and programmes , and is also essential for the " surveillance " function of the fund under the provisions of the agreement . a similar pivot is needed if the imf is to deliver better results to the national issues currently being redirected to its policy agenda . in particular , the fund would need to complement its traditional core constituency of governments and other multilateral institutions ( in particular the world bank ) , with systemically important sub-states and private partners .
once it 's slow to respond , the world is beginning to act , and it 's going to happen . thirty countries have recently signed up to the school guidelines or guidelines for safe schools , which have been taught by military authorities how to prevent schools from being used as war tools . leila zerrougui , a special representative of the un secretary-general for children and armed conflicts , recommends the designation of children 's abductions from schools as a " trigger violation " of the law , which is named by terrorist organizations in the annual report of the secretary-general of the security council . and thanks to the united states fund for children , the global coalition of children , which will protect against the attack , the global coalition of trade unions for education and former nigerian finance minister ngozi okonjo-iweala , has now led the idea of safe schools . this meant that the school guards , the fortifications and surveillance equipment would provide parents and pupils with certainty that everything was possible to secure their school 's safe access .
that 's why greece is in a default , and the forced restructuring of his debt to the public is inevitable . that is why , in serious trouble , they are spain and ireland , and even that is why it is - which is on a relatively large fiscal basis , but has been flat for decades , and there is no structural reform . since fiscal austerity means that the recessionary and deflationary pressure in the short term will require more money to offset domestic demand growth - by means of delayed fiscal austerity - in germany . but two major political players in the eurozone - the eurozone 's central bank and the german government - do n't want to be involved in this program , and they hope that a quarter of good data will be developed . the rest of the eurozone is barely better off the periphery : the vigilantes of the bond may not wake up in a france , but the economic performance at best has been anemic - mostly caused by a mini boom .
the french political class thought the euro was a solution to the question of the french . but europe and the euro could be more catalyzed by the public for public resentment . the joint rotation and the chirac did not do anything to implement a large-scale liberalization program ( including energy , financial services , and transport ) , which was agreed two years ago in lisbon , meaning that liberalization benefits are denied by the french public at the time when the public perceives the place of the french market as a restriction of the french way of doing business . it is time for france to abandon the french exception ( " l'exemption francaise " ) and begin serious reforms that will lead to the french electorate . the shame of le pen 's newfound reputation may still be beneficial if it forces the mainstream political establishment to take into account the popular interests and address the problems of the country .
people in places like france and the country that fear national decline are trying to blame someone outside the country . in the 1930 " s , there was certainly a great deal of this kind of mood when the populist responded to the big crisis attributed to the ominous forces of " international capital . " the modern version of this explanation shows that the world is changing so quickly that national security and , indeed , national identity are threatened . the alternative scenario suggests that these fears are caused by a real problem , but that is not the case . modern economic growth is still dependent on almost every developed industrial country in the area of imported energy .
his second name is au mazen , but it reflects the way he names the man as his eldest son 's father . abbas 's son , ma'am , is leading the local advertising agency , and we 're going to take care of it . in an attempt to counter arafat 's political corruption and microleadership , abbas lost all chance of maintaining the loyalty of the fatah leadership , newly appointed pa , security personnel , and , above all , local militants . he called for national elections , although politically correct , political suicide , because he had no idea what the outcome would be , and he did not do much to secure the discipline of fatah . an attempt at the primary choice of candidates for fatah has been rejected because of fraud and a refusal of losers to achieve the results .
the city of new york - for four decades , the streets of ldra in nicosia were a symbol of a divided cynic . and two years ago , this april was open , and the capital was divided into the north and south . people who had not mixed up for 44 years began to renew their ties and discover each other again . it was a window into which the future could be brought to the world . last week , i was on the crossing of ledra street , and i was on the way .
but if the proposals discussed last month in beijing , the resulting fta could overcome nafta 's degree of integration and importance for the world economy . moreover , the formation of a china-japan-south korean fever would likely trigger a chain reaction . for example , the momentum could be extended south and supported by the climb , which has bilateral ftas with all three countries , so that the group can join . such a change would be the same as the establishment of a free-trade area in east asia , which the u.s. + 3 imagined a decade ago . if that happened , other countries - australia , new zealand , and , above all , india - could try to jump on the bandwagon .
compare it to antibiotics , say , urogenital infections that take most weeks . therefore , compliance with tb is particularly weak , which is a paving way to develop multi-drug-resistant tb , which can no longer be treated by normal therapeutic regimes . about 50 million people are infected with tuberculosis , which are mdr . in the treatment of mdr-tb , it remains possible , and it is also arduous , with a period of approximately two years of treatment , the use of drugs that are neither effective nor benign as canonical drugs - and at the cost of a factor of 10-100 . although this additional cost can be borne by health care systems in the rich world , poor countries are too high , and they do not provide adequate treatment .
of course , market forces play a role , but the politics is shaped by the market , and in america , with its quasi-corrupt campaign finance system , and its revolving doors between government and industry , politics is shaped by money . for example , bankruptcy law , which is derivatives of all other things , does not allow student debt to be released , regardless of the lack of education provided , rich bankers and bankers at the bottom . in a country where money is trumpeted by democracy , these legislation is predictably common . but growing inequality is not inevitable , and it is not an ideal way to go . there are economies that improve both in terms of growth in the gdp and increase living standards for most citizens .
on the other hand , the former secretary of state and democratic candidate for the mound of republicans and leading republicans , donald trump , have opposed to social security reform and medical reform . senator bernie sanders , clinton 's democratic rival , is proposing to extend the unfunded commitments of programs . with so few presidential candidates who recognize the link between the reform of social security and health care and ensure a broad shared wellbeing , we face serious risks . progressive redistributive programs could continue to advance , or the conservative right to reform could not succeed . in any event , we would face an increase in taxes and restrictions on public investments that can be achieved in the future of the country .
austrians are right that there are parties similar to haider-like parties in many european countries - in britain , in france , even in some scandalous countries . but in all of these countries , political discourse of all democratic parties has not reached the alliance with the british national front , but also for the france , where the french conservatives have been expelled from their party 's party leaders , who have formed a municipal alliance with representatives of le pen . that 's exactly what austrian conservative party did n't do under the wolf 's schuessel . they faced the outcome of the election , whether to join the social democrats or the party for freedom of haider , and they made a deal with haider . there may be political reasons why another alliance with social democrats did not attract attention to the party of the sept ( for example , he would not be chancellor in such a coalition ) .
the congressional budget projects , which do not include any further legislation , will increase the debt ratio by 91.2 % by 2027 . the direct consequence of the deficit of 1.5 trillion dollars , which is the result of tax reform , would be 97 % . an army crisis or economic downturn would require additional spending on public finances or tax cuts . but even a huge program of spending , such as $ 900 billion , and a reinvestment act in 2009 , would only add three percent of the debt . it is difficult to believe that 97 % of the debt would be more difficult than 92 % .
the economic community of west africa states has condemned all attempts to " seize the will of the people of the côte d'ivoire and call on all interested parties to accept the results of the election commission . " the ecowas chair and nigerian president jonathan called on all sides to " respect and fully implement the ivorian people 's judgment , as the independent election commission declared . " and we president barack obama congratulated ouattara and said that the world would " keep those who would be able to prevent democratic processes and will of the electorate responsible for their actions . " the african union has also responded immediately to the negotiations , and the negotiations have been conducted . its peace and security board met and expressed its categorical rejection of any attempt to create a fait equipment that undermines the electoral process .
the spirit - has the world entered a new era of chaos in the world ? america 's free policy on the move to syria certainly suggests that this is the case . indeed , the bitter legacy of iraq and afghanistan 's invasion , followed by the 2008 financial crisis , has not only caused the united states to hesitate to use its military force , even if they cross the line of " red lines , " but they do not seem to bear any serious burden on maintaining its global leadership . but if america is no longer willing to lead , who will it be ? china 's leaders have demonstrated their lack of interest in active global leadership by openly rejecting calls for " responsible stakeholders " in international policy and economic systems .
ethanol accounts for more than 50 % of the current demand for fuel in the country and petrobras - the energy giant of brazil and one of the biggest companies in latin america - is expected to increase by 80 % by 2020 . our research shows that industrial policy has been successful in promoting the competitiveness of bioethanol in brazil . a massive stimulus package , driven by the rise in oil prices in 1970 , has caused a completely new industry . but it would not work without the main role of competition in the field of competition . brazil tried to become self-sufficient energy , as well as modern efforts from other countries .
the indian fathers sometimes pay their debts by putting their children in a bind to the labor market . pakistani parents sometimes make kids beat up beggars , and they do n't care about them . unfortunately , families are the last to protest the abuse of children , but they are not allowed to be used . the ilo says children suffer greatly when they are forced to act as " small adults . " " the ability and ability of the child to overcome reality are dulled , " says one report , " and his entire mental world is impoverished . "
but despite its wealth and military power , america 's ability to project political power - whether it is good or bad - will fall in the next few years , at least five reasons : america 's budget is in crisis . thanks to the cuts in taxes and military spending , which contributed to a budget deficit of $ 500 billion a year , we will have to raise taxes and reduce spending on the budget , whether the bush is re-elected or not . the annual military budget , which has increased by 150 billion since the bush has taken office , will need to be cut in the next few years , so that the budget is under control ; we are borrowing significantly from abroad . asia 's central banks have bought hundreds of billions of dollars of securities , and we have to pay them . only japan has a foreign exchange reserve of about $ 750 billion .
but there have yet to be any devastating monetary attacks outside the realm of cinematic fantasy . of course , political efforts have long been made to undermine or replace the dollar as a dominant currency . it seems to me that the most seductive alternative was gold , and that it was n't the best . russian theorists of " eurasia " often use russian iconography . in 2001 , the prime minister of mahathir mohamad attempted to introduce a " gold dinar " as an answer to the system of us-based currency .
therefore , my profit for the proper adoption of this bear view is eur 1.65 m - 9.1 million euro i have received by selling bonds when i borrowed them at january 1 , minus 7.2 million euro i had to pay for their repurchase on the june 30 , minus the 250,000 euro in interest that i paid for the six-month loan . voilà - a successful " short " trade . of course , a short seller can not " make " the price of an asset ( unless george soros , whose famous bet against the british pound in 1992 , made him a billionaire and forced him out of the euro exchange mechanism ) . but if a group of speculators decide ( whether they are right or wrong ) that government debt is overpriced , they can reduce their price and increase their yield ( the interest rate required by the government ) . if the attack persists , speculators can make a government default if they do n't find a way to finance their loans more cheaply .
if tariffs reduce china 's exports , the government and the central bank may offset the economic impact by encouraging domestic demand . the slowdown in chinese economic growth this year was due to almost exclusively deliberate decisions to reduce the banking system , reduce the borrowing of local governments , reduce excessive investment in infrastructure , and reduce the growth of house prices by tightening monetary policy . all of these austerity policies can be easily softened or reversed , but they are not so different . in the last few weeks , doubts about the chinese government 's willingness to change economic policy to boost stimulus have been dispelled . clear statements from policymakers , until xi , suggest that china will not allow further weakening of the economy next year , even if it means accepting a larger budget deficit or reducing the bank 's debt reduction and tightening of monetary savings .
this was the age of a blacksmith in the village , a weaver , a potter and a scarecrow . in the 18th century , shipping technology has improved enough to create global supply chains . cotton was one of the first sectors to witness the shift in the past . slaves from africa grew cotton in the southern united states , which were then shipped to english mills . the finished cloth was then exported to the rest of the world , and the rest of the world was covered .
is it supposed to be " always represented " by a political party , or a political party ? i do n't know what " progressive direction of advanced culture " is , but advanced culture has not played a role in the campaign of poisonous weeds , " anti-rightist movement , " or " the elimination of demons and devilish heretics . " such a obscurantism creates only a culture of satisfying unity . culture knows how to find light in that direction . it does not need to be represented by " the person who represents it . "
in 2006 , president olusegun obasanjo , then president nigeria , was the first to do so . uganda 's president , yoweri museveni , followed the lawsuit when he signed an anti-gay bill in 2014 . other leaders , president yahya jamie from gambia to winter 's robert mugabe , spoke in the same vein . these official positions have caused considerable suffering for african gays and lesbians in africa . the price of homophobia for homosexuals in many african countries is clearly clear : legal penalties , social policy and justice for the mafia .
it still seems that china 's share of the shares will be about 30 % largest in 57 participating countries , which could actually be given to aiib 's decision . this underscores the main concern of developing economists and observers of international relations as the aiib approach is born . will it be a chinese bank , china , china , or will it continue a multilateral agenda , such as the world bank and the regional development banks , such as the asian development bank , and the african development bank ( afdb ) ? china 's explanation for the efforts of the aaib is that developing countries do not have adequate access to capital infrastructure . more importantly , they do n't have enough voice in the world bank , international monetary fund and the bank .
at the annual meeting of the international monetary fund in october , the leading economist of the fund , olivier blanchard , was fueled by the controversy , pointing out that governments have recently underestimated the negative effects of fiscal consolidation . in general , it assumed that , in the short term , the reduction in public spending by a dollar would be reduced by 50 cents , according to blanchard , the real result of the current situation would be a reduction of 0.90-1.70 . that 's a big difference , but also a confusing finding : how can there be such uncertainty ? unlike what such forecasts suggest , economists know much about the consequences of fiscal policy , much more than they knew . until 1980 , it was generally assumed that the so-called " multiplier " - a change in gdp to government spending - was stable and larger .
worse , they have proposed that they be used in a specific way . military planners who think nuclear weapons are used , they probably have n't thought of anyone living in cities on their lists . for too long , the inhabitants of cities have been used as pawns on a global nuclear board , and they have no interest in the full effect of the game . but , as public is aware of the specific threats that nuclear weapons continue to pose to cities where they live , it will be increasingly difficult to maintain . people around the world must stop being hostile to each other .
these groups could use economic and social pain in many member states , especially since most of the eurozone 's most europeans are not convinced that the worst is over . moreover , the right-wing populist parties have benefited from the growing public frustration of the eu election . many european citizens oppose the idea of " more europea , " a mantra for traditionalists in both major party families , a european party of people and social democrats . the influence of extending differences between rich eu " north " and stumbling " south " with a france in the middle ( but heading south ) was also evident . and the huge differences between " old " and " new " member states continue to determine the voting patterns .
they lift their glasses and fill them with the best scotch , which was sprinkled with fine powder . not even gold powder , because less important moguls can offer , not even the most valuable cocaine . no , it 's much rarer and more costlier : it 's a pulverized white rhino horn . half a century ago , a white rhino appeared in africa , and the fish was alive . today , the international association for the conservation of natural estimates , which is only 25,000 people wandering around the continent , mostly in southern africa , with a few names and kenyles .
dubai - the global financial crisis has taught the world how deeply dependent our economy is . in today 's crisis , extremism must be recognized that we are equally dependent on our security , as is clear from the current struggle to defeat the isis . if we want to prevent isis from teaching us this lesson , we must acknowledge that we can not extinguish fanaticism by force . the world must unite in a holistic way to discredit ideology that will give extremists their power and restore hope and dignity to those who will be recruited . the isis can - and will - be defeated by an international coalition that is now being collected and actively supporting the ae .
this year 's nobel prize for economic sciences was george akerlof the university of california in berkeley , michael 's study of stanford university . what 's going on with this job , and why did we do it ? economists have used simple economic models for two hundred years , which have assumed that the information is perfect , so that all participants have the same and transparent knowledge of the relevant factors . they knew the information was not perfect , but they hoped that the world , with a slight imperfections of information , would be akin to the world with perfect information . we have shown that this notion is not justified : even small imperfections of information may have a profound impact on the way the economy is behaving .
bankers " efforts to self-interest did not lead to the welfare of society , nor did they serve their shareholders and bondholders well . it certainly did n't serve homeowners who lost their homes , the workers who lost their jobs , the retirees who had seen their pension funds , or the taxpayers who paid hundreds of billions of dollars to pay the bank . under the threat of a collapse of the system , the safety net , designed to help unhappy individuals to meet the life expectancy , was extended to commercial banks , and then to investment banks , insurance companies , auto companies , even to credit companies . there 's never been so much money in the world from so many to so few . we are accustomed to thinking that government will transfer money from wells to poor people .
the practical result - the fact that ukraine remains unbalanced in terms of military and security - would reflect the will of the entire population of the ukrainian population . this approach would be consistent with the principle that president barack obama highlighted in the announcement of the latest series of penalties against russia last month that ukraine must be allowed to " map his own path . " above all , it will help people of ukraine - divided between inherently hostile identities - to live together in peace . of course , the ukraine position may be changed in the future , with cultural , demographic , and economic changes that will bring the necessary consensus to abandon neutrality . it is important that the constitution requires a majority - say , rather than an easy " non-bloc " resolution , which the ukrainian parliament adopted in 2010 - to join the military alliance .
in the next few years , the most important fiscal task , which will be faced by the east european and nis government , will be to reduce social spending to a more proportionate part of the budget . political elites - at home and abroad - will need to focus on the looming fiscal crisis . the public should understand the fundamental difference between one-time transfers of old workers to market reforms and long-term pension policy . in any viable long-term arrangement , the level of benefits for wages should be reduced , the age of retirement should be set at international level , and the entitlement to special pensions ( especially disability ) should be tightened , so that only real need can be paid . in institutional terms , long-term reforms should aim to transition to pension systems based on individual savings accounts , such as in the case of a pension scheme , as in the case of a pension scheme , as in the case of a pension scheme , which is currently running , as in the case of a pension scheme .
but it is possible to follow the second phase of the crisis in the labor market , the populist nationalism , and the concentration of businesses will begin to offset the one-time structural effects of new technologies in general . and in the third phase , the possible increase in inflation may surprise policymakers and investors , which will cause a bad situation to deteriorate . as with most paradigm changes , there is little certainty about the timing of the scenario . but politicians in advanced economies must recognize that their inflation prospects are subject to a wider range of dynamic options than they have ever considered . rather than structural , the focus on cyclical effects could pose a serious risk to future economic wellbeing and financial stability .
the same is true for the implementation of the climate agreement for 2015 , which will require extensive investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy sources , so that global temperatures do not increase by more than 2 ° c. the manifesto of un agendas - peace and security , sustainable development , human rights and humanitarianism - must be structured in a single strategic continuation , rather than remain rigid and unyielding institutional silos . in the area , a multi-disciplinary " team un " group could be deployed to remove barriers to departmental and face appropriate challenges . the groups would act under a joint mandate for all agencies , and they would be led by members of the un operations in each country . a fifth step should be to fully integrate women into all parts of the un agenda , not just in separate areas relating to " women 's issues . "
in the last survey , 268 million people have been in extreme poverty since 2011 . each of them is averaging 38 cents per day , and they are below the extreme poverty line . for india , the price is up to $ 11 billion . the most expensive countries in which poverty would be spent would be the democratic republic of korea and the nigeria . 77 % of the population is very poor in the drc , and the dollar is below the poverty line .
but in recent decades , macroeconomic policy has become more pro-cyclical in most developing countries , and has largely worsened the volatility of financial markets and commodity prices . pro-cyclical fiscal adjustment is a prerequisite for short-term economic policy , which limits long-term investments in infrastructure and human capital , and thus limits growth . it can be created by improving governance and strengthening the tax base and , for the poorest , the creation of a stable state support for development ( oda ) , which has been supported by national budgets . indeed , if oda is not determined by geopolitics , it can have a positive impact on long-term growth , in principle , because it supports infrastructure investment and human development . finally , institutional reforms include more than the creation of markets and the protection of property rights .
europe 's leaders must be seriously involved in the issue of cocaine issues in europe . the " white lady " is seduced by a growing number of europeans , and the fact that they remain in denial will only exacerbate the consequences . cocaine was once a problem for america , and the united states has launched a major campaign against sellers and consumers of crack cocaine in the city , drug traffickers and suppliers . but demand for cocaine is mostly stable or reduced in most countries , and the number of drugs is now falling . the cultivation of coca has been cut by a quarter over the last five years , and the seizure of cocaine has doubled .
berkeley - it 's been a year since donald trump was elected president of the united states and america 's democratic institutions are under pressure . only 20 % of americans now believe the federal government is " doing the right thing , " while congress 's confidence has fallen below 9 % . extremism extremism , especially in congress , undermines the federal government 's ability to act , which is exactly what many people want . according to some pessimists , the constitution has not been designed to address the challenges of the country , which are so sharply divided by income , race and partisanship . most voters still trust the state and local governments , and they have the power to change the constitution for the tenth time to strengthen democratic institutions .
the european parliament has consistently declared belarus as the last dictatorship of the euro , but instead , the governments of the member states continue to act as usual with aleksander lukashenko , the country 's wayward and almost insane despot . this is especially true if you have a chance to save or earn money . for example , for more than a decade , german police , customs and even bundeswehr , ordered uniforms from a factory in the state of dzherzinsky , named according to the father of the red red and founder of the soviet union , the feliks of dzherzinsky . such examples of this unindifferent cynicism are the result of the investigation . by treating lukashenka as a favourite business partner , instead of trying to isolate him as an international pariah , europe 's pean hypocrisy is completely naked .
the revenue of bonds in southern europe has increased , and in europe 's capitals , there have been pervasive fears and fears . but the political leadership was not enough , and it was not enough to do so . finally , in december 2011 , decisive action was taken , according to the commission . there would be a " fiscal agreement " that would strengthen the pact of stability and growth , and , above all , automatic sanctions would be imposed to ensure that members of the eurozone stick to these rules . the euro central bank also released a long-term refinancing operation of eur 1.3 billion , which has withdrawn the eurozone 's banking system from the edge .
this view supports an analysis of ronald gilson , henry hansmann and mariana pargendler of brazil mercado - a special segment of stock exchange , which provides strong protections for investors in newly listed companies . but stock exchanges have limits , especially in the brain , and they do n't have much . if there is no reliable judicial authority , they can not sue them for their application . their only use is to push recalcitrant companies out of the exchange of interest . the issue was addressed by the novo mercado , which was subject to disputes involving the newly listed companies in arbitration .
the new york - january-january-is traditionally a time for an assessment of developments in the previous year , so that the new one can be expected to be stored . unfortunately , even if we are at a political point in a better direction , the data that has emerged last month will not be painted with a promising picture of the short-term prospects of the global economy . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur .
but it is contrary to the traditional dynamics of trade , in which the success of one country is not a problem for the other . of course , the current shift in some countries to secondary and higher education , which is at the same time a large increase in productivity , could reduce the competitiveness of the economy that did not produce such an effort . but this scenario is highly unlikely , at least in the foreseeable future , but it is not possible . the high number of universities in europe has not actually contributed to economic growth or employment . and the transformation of large-scale universities into specialist institutes for science and technology in the soviet union and china has not prevented economic disasters in these economies .
first , it all caused a serious social crisis : reducing output , rising unemployment , a large budget deficit , inflation deficit , and devaluation . without a serious crisis , there was no danger of significant reforms in the area of the crisis . second , the government 's change in elections prompted reforms and gave them democratic legitimacy . reform does not require a state of emergency , as is often said . third , reforms need to be strong in the lead , and they need to be strong .
indeed , with profitability at the level of record or almost record , cash holdings in the united states have piled up quarter to quarter to quarter , reaching a maximum of time - and they have not achieved much at today 's near-zero interest rates . moreover , since companies have significantly improved their efficiency and extended the maturity of their debt , they need much less precautionary savings than they have ever done . but it is clear from it that the corporate sector in the general advanced economies and , in particular , the two of us is as strong as it has been in many years . non-financial businesses have achieved a combination of resilience and agility , which is contrary to the prevailing conditions for some households and governments around the world , which have not yet faced a sufficiently large leverage effect . but rather than putting their large amounts of money into new investments in order to expand capacity and tap on new markets - which , after the global financial crisis , were highly hesitant - many companies have so far preferred ( or have been pushed by activist investors ) to return to shareholders .
purely from the point of view of economic potential and basic , the case is much stronger for south korea , a complex economic power that is a major responsibility for the danger that its evil twin regime will collapse and unleash hungry refugees . the same is true of turkey , with strong banking , thriving in the domestic market , which is becoming important for the middle east and energy policy , for membership in the eurozone , for membership in the union , and for relations with ethnic cousins across central asia . perhaps the most compelling thing is the indonesia , the largest muslim state in the world , with a rapidly expanding middle class , relatively stable democratic policy , and the economy , which has become a star actor in asia , despite the global recession . from the american perspective , indonesia is an attractive alternative to russia , which has recently been dedicated to venezuela 's leadership in the " america in decline " section . indonesia has also shown resilience not only to economic , but also to the state .
the good example is that the " duty to protect " principle is inherently flawed , since the main powers will be protected from intervention , not only because five can carry out a veto of security , but also because of their own military power . but this does not take into account the principle that military intervention will never be legitimate if it fails to meet the test of weakening , not increasing human suffering , and that it will not be able to fight any major powers to protect a minority suffering from suffering would certainly lead to a much wider transition . the point is that values matter in international relations and states that the emphasis on promoting values is extremely vulnerable to the burden of hypocrisy . no state that vampires are trying to gain support or cooperation from others can be considered comfortable with unambiguous double standards . and the worst of all is to be seen as being soft on those who , like the current military rulers of egypt , commit mass crimes against their own citizens .
the recent denial of the fact that any company operating there has been fined by the fact that the suspect in which hun 's government is seeking to pursue a blind eye continues to increase the suspicion . it may be a bad thing for a corrupt couple , but it 's bad for cambodia . the country 's deteriorating record of democracy and human rights is already jeopardizing its free access to the union market for europe , provided that the bloc " everything but arms " trade regime is " everywhere . the last thing that cambodia needs is to risk economic retaliation for helping chinese businesses to avoid tariffs . but that seems to be exactly what hun sen 's government is planning to do .
some important economies are still struggling to defend themselves , and they are still struggling . the number of people who have been unemployed is more than 200 million people . the global economy is in danger of being stuck in a " new mediocre " - a long period of slow growth and weak job creation . to get out of stagnation , we need to restore the momentum of the policy . if the measures agreed by leaders in november 20 , they would increase the world 's gdp by 2 % by 2018 - equivalent to adding $ 2 billion to global revenue .
should it be further undergoing a transformation and expansion of the environment ? what kind of relationship should n't be with the partners , what do you think ? the albright report seeks to address these issues in a balanced way , according to the commission . it agrees with policies that accurately capture the relationship between " outside the area " and the commitment of members to self-defense in accordance with article 5 of the north atlantic treaty . it also rightly suggests that the strategic objectives of the nato and the military could be achieved together with russia , thanks to greater stability , transparency , predictability , and restrictions on arms control , which could be verified by agreements on the issue of weapons and weapons .
one is north korea , whose behaviour has been clever and tricky for the last time . north korea has broken their agreements , knowing that china , the country with the greatest potential , is most concerned about the collapse of the regime in north korea , and thus the threat of chaos on its borders . the japanese officially agree with the goal of a non-nuclear world , but it is based on an extended nuclear deterrent by america , and it is not about being subjected to nuclear blackmail from north korea . japanese fear that america 's expanded deterrence will weaken if we reduce its nuclear forces to negotiate with china . but it is a mistake to believe that extending deterrence depends on the number of nuclear weapons .
berkeley - at least in the late 1990 " s , at least two companies have been forced to deregulation - that is , by removing legal separation of investment banks from commercial banking , by lowering banks " capital requirements and supporting aggressive creation and use of derivatives . if deregulation is now such a bad idea , why not ? the first school of ideas , which was widely regarded as a republican party , was that financial regulation was not good , since all regulations were not good . the second , generally democratic party , was more complex and based on four observations : · at least in the global economy , it was over 60 years after financial disruption had a minor impact on overall production and employment .
it is ridiculous that so many people who stand up to the benefits of such " socialist " policies are still persuaded to vote against them , because they are supposedly non-american . of course , focusing on egalitarianism would be called for liberals , but it should not alienate moderate voters , as more equality would be good for the economy . and he might even convince some angry , poor supporters of the ump to recognize that his pseudo-populism is not about helping the people who are left behind in the city of rust and rural areas . it 's about giving the few more money , and that 's why we 're still here . the core message of democrats should be that everyone else loses in plutocracy .
but neither of them want to be " chicken , " because it would undermine their domestic political position and strengthen the other side . however , without a deal of agreement at the end of the year , the collision will likely occur . when the clock goes down , the bad outcome is more likely to be done . similarly , trump thought he could intimidate him by abandoning a joint comprehensive action plan and imposing serious penalties . but the irish people responded by raising their regional cations , knowing that trump could not afford a big war and an oil price increase that would result in it .
but the scaf now seems to have realized that , in a situation where there is no leadership , no civilian politician can provide immunity without being exposed to an attack by its rivals . moreover , the scaf carefully considered politicians and revealed their relative weakness , limited capacity , notorious opportunism and general inconsistency . as a result , there is still a growing belief in the scaf that its three " minimum " requirements have become unnecessary and inadequate . in the last two months , the scaf 's behavior against civil politicians , civil society actors , and more recently , the community of cops clearly reflects the change in attitude : " you need immunity , leadership , and protection from us - not from you . " political polarization , sectarian incidents , weak economy and security failures have dampenned the prospects of successful democratic transition .
higher debt services require higher tax rates , which , in turn , reduce incentives and reduce economic growth . by the end of the decade , we will have to pay a fee of more than one-third of the income from income tax only to pay interest on national debt . foreign investors now have half the debt , and they have a share of the debt . they pay interest and demand that more goods and services be sent to the rest of the world than we will receive from the rest of the world . this requires a weaker dollar to make goods more attractive to foreign buyers , and that foreign goods will be more expensive for american consumers .
in addition to domestic policy issues and internal freedom , the selection of candidates depends on whether the irish should seek greater international integration . ahmadinejad is a policy of confrontation and partial isolation ; moussavi is more open . therefore , the opening of a country would quickly threaten the regime 's existence . if ahmadinejad is to prevent , the west 's dilemma will be that he will have to deal with the regime , which will be destroyed by the election fraud , but he will still have to solve all important problems in the middle east : an atomic program , and conflicts in afghanistan , iraq , iraq , lidon , and palestine . ian is also a key player in cooling places in castasia and castasia .
perhaps the most obvious profits were on the front page of the front page , perhaps . exports increased from 5 % to 30 % of the total amount of gross foreign direct investment . but where it counts - overall productivity and economic growth - it is a great disappointment . since 1996 , economic growth per capita has averaged significantly below 1.5 % , and productivity has declined or decreased . if there was a country to be a poster child of a new orthodoxy in economic development , it was mexico .
after all , many asian countries have achieved impressive export growth under the current system . bilateral or regional trade agreements may be eliminated in some of the barriers to the existing global system . the main problem is , for example , that global trade is constantly evolving , and existing agreements only have limited capacity to adapt . services such as education , banking , accounting and insurance accounts for a larger share of global production ( now approximately two-thirds ) . even if asia succeeded in relentlessly exporting manufacturing , today 's poorest countries , especially africa , can realistically export only agriculture and textiles .
the current non-medical writer described the characteristics of intense pain , such as extreme discomfort , the ability to eradicate complex thoughts and other feelings , the ability to destroy language and strong resistance to objectization . she reminds doctors that what is dominated by awareness is a strong negative emotion . most of the time , pain occurs after simple neural endings , which reveal tissue damage in different ways , and they generate signals that go to the spinal cord and the brain . for many years scientists thought these signals were traveling along several well-defined routes to reach the station in the brain called thalamus . scientists believed the signals had gone to the brain 's brain brain brain , which had managed to detect the body , and the brain somehow changed them into a conscious experience .
when the capital escape forced franois mitterrand to end his program in 1983 , the french socialists quickly turned and embraced financial liberalization on a global scale . according to harvard 's abdelal , this is a key event that has triggered developments that will ultimately lead to the freedom of movement of capital as a global norm . the first stop was the european union in the 1980 " s , where two french socialists - the japanese delors and pascal lamy ( the euro commission and his assistant ) led the way . then it was the turn of an economic cooperation organisation and development . eventually , the imf joined the bandwagon under mccamdessus , another frenchman who had served as governor of the bank under mitterrand .
within fifteen minutes of the general 's face , 40 troops from alageria declared their loyalty . the men at the barricades were persuaded to leave the fortress ; the rebels were either detained or fled to spain . the first defeat of the military insurgency was that the republican government had first claimed that the bleeding noirs had helped to bring down the fourth republic . de gaulle 's firmness and rhetoric - it must be said that the rebels - who have helped them - have established the state 's primacy . the next day de gaulle 's face was withdrawn , but he was determined and full of energy .
the diplomatic promotion of the palestine offered him a lifeline , and he was not in the world . did the israelis really want to revitalize the violence of islamist in gaza , the possible collapse of peaceful politics on the west bank , and now the right to recognize the palestinian state to bring the israel to the international criminal court for war crimes ? if not , why do they have such a ham-fisted place , too ? it seems like israel made the same mistake as others . it has been repeatedly proven that military intimidation of civilians is not breaking their morale and not turning them against their leaders , even if it is a terrible regime .
fourth , the war in afghanistan did not only begin with a rapid development , but it also led to diplomatic progress . the un will play a central role in restoring the work of the working government in this country and coordinating humanitarian assistance for afghan people . the growing role of the united nations in this process is to seal international law and diplomatic relations in the fight against terrorism , and it helps reassure many countries that this is a real international effort , not just us . while it seems to be a grain of success , it is pointing to one single message : the world community is seeking new ways of cooperation , even in the context of terrorism and global recession . the growing role of international institutions under the umbrella is more confident that disputes can be addressed peacefully and sensibly , with significant scientific knowledge of the relevant conditions of climate change .
in addition to the practical political rhetoric of leaders such as hugo chávez in venezuela and evo morales in bolivia , there is nothing new about the offer of the world 's election market , which is very different from the so-called neo-liberalism or the washington consensus . in other words , there is no longer a battle between different projects in modern countries , no confrontation with the left ( with their nuances ) , which could raise voters " emotions . here , brazil is no different from the united kingdom , the spain or the uruguay . this year 's election of brazil is like football between the big teams , where fans of one candidate and the other are distinguished only by their shirts , as the strongest teams take the rules of the game and , in fact , the tactics are similar . according to socialist sociologist francis de oliveira , the electoral environment is closely linked to one fact : the " irrelevance " of politics as a result of its " financial situation . "
but the most important changes must be made in the media industry itself , and the commission must also take advantage of them . since journalists " safety is directly affected by the staff of the press , the independent ancers and viewers , these organisations should report to the issue . when the press attacks are growing , the old approach - a prideful silence - makes no sense . if journalists use their platforms to tell the world about the dangers they face , they will have to listen to the world . violence against journalists has been a problem that has remained in the past for the first time .
in 2010 , global leaders achieved a millennium development goal ( mdg ) , which reduced the share of the world 's poor to half of its 1990 " s - five years before the plan . but rising unemployment and declining incomes are a threat to global poverty , and the benefits of this phenomenon are still growing . poverty is not a changing attribute to a fixed group ; it is a condition that threatens billions of people . despite their shortcomings , it is appropriate to better understand the extent of poverty and vulnerability in the world . but the poverty line of the world bank of $ 1.25 a day ( purchase of energy parity ) , which is used to measure progress towards the target target of reducing funds , is not the only relevant threshold .
and the number of uncertainty in the area of policy and legislation will keep private investment in check . the outlook for 2014 is also alleviated by longer-term restrictions on the part of the population . indeed , there is a great risk of stagnation in many advanced economies , owing to an adverse effect on productivity growth in years of poor investment in human and physical capital . structural reforms that need to be strengthened by these economies will be too slow . while the eurozone 's final risks are lower , its fundamental problems remain unresolved : low potential growth , high unemployment , high and rising public debt , loss of competitiveness and slow reduction in unit labor costs ( which is not a strong euro ) , and a very strict reduction in credit , owing to the continued deleveraging of banks .
but i realise that this value is a long-term concept , and that it is a matter of time . in order to get gas to the market in europe and elsewhere , it is necessary to build a gas liquefaction plant of about € 10 billion , and israeli investors have already expressed their interest . the mere size of the likely wealth of cynics and the funds needed to develop it is dwarfed by the current financial woes of the country . yes , cynese needs 17 billion euro to remain in the eurozone , while the annual budget is only 23 billion euro . but these figures must be included in the overall bleak overall energy picture of the eu eu eu - which has not yet been implemented .
syriza is not alone in greece and blamed the country for the suffering . democracy and pasok are doing the same , attacking the country , speculators and hedge funds - anyone who might divert public attention from their own responsibility for the crisis . greece 's biggest private media , controlled by oligarchs , are happy to be involved . most television stations are talking about bailout contracts as well as tsipras : as a proximate cause of austerity , the result of neoliberal dogma . as a result , too many people in greece reflect the madness of germany 's obsession with discipline , not the profligacy of their country .
after all , it was a small qatar who had broken the lebanon 's domestic settlement , an egypt that mediated the cease-fire of gaza and turkey that made it easier for the israeli-syrian talks . the policy of israel 's policy towards syria and the policy of french president nicolas sarkozy were a strong message for americans that they should not have missed the lebanese train . but america 's dwindling leverage ca n't match the influence of " evil axis . " lebanon is too vulnerable to pressure from syria and iran , and none of them want to see how their local clients are rid of the burden of " lebanese front " before they are addressed . nor does hezbollah want to see the end of the occupation of the shapeshifter farms on the border of the lebanon , which is threatened by its claim to the formidable independent military force that it has built with the help of iran and the syrian .
but clarida 's input will focus more on real inflation trends than on official unemployment rates , and its effects on traditional models . although the workforce is generally convinced that the economic growth rate of potential growth is very low ( about 1.5-2 % ) , clarida , as well as powell , seems to be open to the idea that trump 's tax cuts and deregulatory policies , together with another wave of technological innovation , will allow for a somewhat stronger growth in inflation . clarida is finally conducting an internal strategy review to determine whether the food should begin to produce inflation at the time of recessions and slow recovery , and allow inflation above targets during expansions . and although the review is still in place at the beginning , the feed seems to have already taken the view that inflation should be allowed to exceed 2 % without immediately tightening . these factors together suggest that the feed may remain in a pause mode for the rest of 2019 .
it is government - and thus taxpayers and bondholders - that finance nuclear power plants . moreover , the alleged " cost savings " of nuclear power is never included in the price tag for direct and indirect government subsidies , decommissioning of aging facilities , and emergency cleaning and remediation of the affected communities in the event of disasters - all of which are once again at the expense of taxpayers . for example , in fukushima , the bill will include the cost of heroic efforts by hundreds of workers to cool down reactors , the long-term loss of economic output in the 20-mile exclusion zone ( estimated at $ 12.8.5 billion roubini global economics ) , decommissioning and cleaning costs , and the cost of replacing 4.7 gigawatts of production capacity . in addition , health-care costs can be incurred as a result of exposure to radioactivity . all of these hidden costs increase the price of nuclear energy , which is higher than the price of switching to renewable energy , and the increase in energy efficiency .
otherwise , they would have been a stifling debate , and they would n't be able to . this would be a counter-attack on what universities stand for , and what they want . it would also be a pragmatic issue to reverse the fire by giving the trump another opportunity to demonstrate the " liberal elite . " but there is a need for clear rules for the engagement of the undertaking . the most important principle of raising the question is to distinguish between listening to someone and honoring someone .
as a prisoner of death , the euro received another final stay in execution . he 'll survive a little longer , and he 'll be able to help you . the markets are celebrating , as they have done after each of the four previous summits of the euro crisis - until they understand that the fundamental problems have not yet been resolved . at this summit , it was good that europe 's leaders finally understood that the bootstrap operation , which would bring money to banks to save sovereign states and states to save banks , would not work . they now recognize that bailout loans , which give the new seniority to creditors , are exacerbating the position of private investors who demand even higher interest rates .
munich - the german constitutional court has delivered its long-awaited decision on the european central bank 's " direct monetary transactions . " since its launch in 2012 , the omt programme has allowed the european external borders to buy , where appropriate , unlimited amounts of bonds of eurozone government , provided that the countries concerned are willing to comply with the rules for the rescue of the euro , the european stability mechanism . thousands of german citizens have called on the constitutional court against the omt program , claiming that it is contrary to article 123 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union , which is a barrier to monetary financing of eurozone governments , and that it poses a significant risk to the german citizens as taxpayers . the court has now declared that it fully endorses the arguments of the plaintiffs and that the omt programme is in fact contrary to primary law . but instead of issuing a formal ruling , which would have pushed the bundesbank and the parliament of the german parliament , as it would have done , the court asked the european court of justice to comment on it .
since the 1980s , the tax has fallen by more than 50 % . in order to build support for innovation in high risk , taxpayers should be able to receive a more direct return by investing in public innovation funds to finance the next wave of technologies . when investments are carried out in basic research , the effect of spillover in industry and industry is sometimes sufficient for social reward . however , in other cases , alternative incentives may be needed to create a new incentive . for example , some of the profits of government investments in tesla could be recovered by the stock ( or royalties ) and used to cover losses from its investments in solyndra .
if the next leaders do not meet them , the euro itself will be in danger . the european parliament will be seated by a new generation of politicians who have not participated in the compromises and reforms of the last decade . on the contrary , many of them will be elected in a political environment of anger , weakening trust and fragmentation within the country . there is still a consensus that the eurozone will need more than a monetary policy to ensure continued growth and stability . of course , with interest rates at zero , more monetarable / fiscal-policy coordination is a necessity .
in this case , most of the social media 's most popular uprisings failed to demand effective leadership , and traditional political and military organizations were still in the hands of the upper hand . these regimes have begun to support social media for their own purposes . we have heard all the allegations that russia has secretly used social media to influence the outcome of the election in ukraine , france , germany , and , as far as the united states is concerned , in the united states . facebook estimates that russian content in the network , including advertising , has reached 126 million americans , about 40 % of the population of the state . we should recall earlier allegations of russia 's role in the omenting of " color revolutions " in the ukrainian and george .
but he 's not immune to the wrong calculation , and he 's not immune to it . in 2005 , mahmoud ahmadinejad relied on khamenei 's financial and political support for the presidency . but today , khamenei is deeply regretful about the choice , and he is very sorry . ahmadinejad disobeys his orders , attempts to discredit him by calling on his authority and undermining key institutions , including judicial and parliamentary authorities . it is a secret in the irish political circles that khamenei also regrets that volunteers from the basilica militia have attacked the british embassy in the last november .
but it is unclear whether china 's leaders will recognize this and act in the long-term interest of their country . the point is , it 's not just that china is not going to be single . the same questions are related to the indian and brazil , which are also true . and not just developing and emerging countries that have to reconsider their approach to the world . we have to do it too , and we have to do it too .
we should n't be afraid of anything that would make some people richer than others . some people work harder , use their intelligence more skillfully , or simply have been lucky enough to be in the right place . but i do n't see what alternative policy arrangements could make the relative wealth of individuals more closely matched by their moral or other virtues . the problems to be addressed are poverty and social insurance - ensuring a safe network - not inequality . but at the level of individual societies , i think inequality is a serious political problem .
however , in principle , it is necessary that the fsoc be able to carry out its work - to find and assess all possible systemic risks . this must be carried out as a technical issue , not in political matters . not everyone at the other point is as sensible as stein , but everyone at the same time . there is also a certain friction between the various regulatory authorities , and we need to coordinate more at national borders , including the euro . but the real danger is that powerful lobbies , working through congress , are pushing back against the fsoc and its mandate .
the final factor in the victory of iohannis was a generation of younger people , who were associated with the western world , and they were eager to see real democratic progress in romance . when the results were announced , their euphoria was overwhelming , and they were not so strong . the celebration in the university square of bucharest recalled the 1989 energy ; it was the sound of a waking electorate who had realized its previous mistakes and was about to start again . iohannis may also have benefited from the association of voters " minds with german hohenzollern kings , who wisely and wisely ruled romania , and with enthusiasm over the age of 80 . and , indeed , when he learned of his victory , iohannis visited michael i ( the hohenzollern prince , who had not yet been named in 2011 ) .
while dozens of millions of chinese young people show impressive innate skills , the country 's higher education system is a abysmal job , which is growing their talents . most of the curriculum is obsolete and is based on a theory of basic analytical and critical skills . in particular , education in social sciences and humanities is inadequate , owing to inadequate investments in these disciplines and excessive political control of the curricula . as a result , chinese graduate of universities and universities , who have learned relatively little about the world outside of the world , such as anthropology , sociology , international relations , comparative literature , and history , is a problem . if china does not reform its system , it will not be able to produce enough trained talent to compete with the world 's best and brightest .
these reforms will create new markets , stimulate competition , attract foreign investment and transfer of technology , and improve consumer interest . finally , global economic conditions will make it even more difficult for japan to restructure . japan has pledged to further liberalise its markets in the framework of the world war . while export growth has increased since the century , the import substitution and foreign direct investment will increase productivity in japan . imports create a more competitive environment for domestic businesses , and thus create a more competitive environment for businesses .
i believe the west will learn much about what to do by studying policies that are only two central development states , tunisia , and indonesia , because they have successfully avoided the victims of islamic fundamentalism . tunisia 's success is remarkable in light of its proximity to the violent algeria . both countries have combined significantly with the development of jobs in the sector , emphasizing the development of rural development and exports that are difficult to work , and they have continued to develop rapidly and egalitarian development . egalitarian development is the only viable solution to the problems of the world 's mal-development . but it does not provide a short-term response to terrorism for several reasons : it does not provide ideology that would be sufficiently compelling to compete with fundamentalism , which has been captured for at least two generations in the world of moslem .
a new port - yet another in a series of negative surprises for inflation is in hand . in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( index of consumer price ) - which excludes food and energy - has fallen exactly when it should have been raised . over the course of three months , the core of the cpi was essentially unchanged , holding only 1.7 % above the previous year . for us , the economy , which is widely regarded as a sacred ground of full employment , is a harsh awakening - especially for federal reserves , which have stopped all stops to get inflation back to 2 % of the target . halfway across the world , there 's still a similar story going on in japan .
the laureate economist amartya has shown the origin of the indian democratic dialogue with the bc buddhist emperor ashoka . he also contrasts with religious tolerance , which he has taught and practiced by the muslim emperor in 1590 with the inquisition , which in the euro has been a heretic . we need to reconsider our assumptions about the relative prosperity of asia and the west . as a hundred years ago , asia was 60 % of the total amount of gdp . but after the industrial revolution in the northwest of europe , many asia and opium wars were replaced by their position .
the basic legal body for external finance , federal securities laws , has not been implemented until the 1930 " s - decades after our financial markets have grown to finance america 's economic growth . britain and japan seemed to have followed the same sequence : first finance , later protection institutions . the japanese did not have corporate law until complex business financing began in the late nineteenth century . but this sequence is the opposite of what you might expect : after the financial markets have developed , they have taken part in the press for better legislation to protect investors . so , in britain , japan and us , there must have been something more important before financial markets started working .
the lack of spending has never been a problem , and the problem has never been made . from 1998 to 2007 , the annual increase in the percentage of greenery per capita gdp 3.8 % , the second fastest in western europe , only ireland . but in 2007 , he spent more than 14 % of the amount of the gdp in excess of what he was producing , the biggest difference in europe - more than twice as much as in spain and 55 % higher than ireland . but in ireland and ireland , the gap reflected the boom in construction ; the euro accession suddenly provided people with a much cheaper mortgage . on the contrary , the difference was mostly fiscal and used for consumption , not for investment .
indeed , the quality of democratic governance can sometimes be improved by reducing the discretion of elected representatives . well-functioning democracies often delegate the authority to quasi-independent bodies , if these issues are technical and do not raise distributive concerns ; if the log-rolling process would otherwise lead to an optimal outcome for all , or if the policy is subject to myopia , with a high reduction in future costs . independent central banks provide an important example of this , which is why they are also a model . it may be up to the election politicians to determine the inflation target , but the funds used to achieve this goal will remain at the central bank 's technocrats . even so , central banks tend to be responsible for politicians , and they must provide an accounting record if they do not meet the objectives .
first , it is important to realise that the strong and too volatile currency is not just a problem for central banks to be fixed . while the central bank is responsible for the responsibility , it needs support from other parts of the government , especially from the department of finance . maintaining a competitive currency requires an increase in domestic savings relative to investments or reductions in national expenditure relative to income . otherwise , the increase in competitiveness would be offset by an increase in inflation . this means that fiscal authorities have a great responsibility : to focus on a structural surplus that is sufficiently high to create the space needed for depreciation of real exchange rates .
there 's something about the story - a symbol of sex , which sacrificed her breasts for her children , and her husband is beside her - that is a great comfort for women in western culture . however , it is reasonable to be sure that joe 's decision will change the role of an actress . however , as the global mass media has chosen , it is extremely difficult for a woman to be portrayed as a mother - let alone be physically " defective " or " damaged " - and also as a fantasy sex object . but the real importance of joe 's story is the context of his story : a wave of women and men , in a very different environment around the world , who insist on telling their own meaning for events involving their bodies - events that once were once shrouded in shame , fear or blame . joe refused to treat mastectomy as a terrible or tragic - or , in any case , she did n't make a " woman . "
this danger is a practical and political limit for flexible exchange rates . most countries can manage depreciation , but if the domestic currency is losing too much value , it may be a vicious circle . the financial sector would weaken the problems of private sector balance-sheet problems , and the pressure on public finances would have to be reduced , thereby limiting consumer demand - and causing further damage to the balance sheet of businesses . in order to prevent such a crisis , it is necessary to manage the exchange rate and , in a manner , depend on the specific circumstances of the country . the process can facilitate the large net reserves of central banks , which are used in the central bank .
freedom of expression is protected by law more strongly than anywhere else in the world . but the repeal of barr 's show was not a legal decision . the limits of freedom of expression are not only legal , but also the limits of freedom of expression . the public opinion is sensitive to the media or the media , which is why they are not so sensitive . people tend to be fired for commercial reasons , if they say they are considered offensive to many people .
i do n't have a majority of people who have a muslim , but a muslim . this phenomenon has also been recorded in the muslim world , and it is also recorded . in the summer of 2002 , a group of experts from the arab industry produced a report on the development of arab people , written on behalf of the development programme and the arab fund for economic and social development . it is a key measure that is lagging behind other regions , including the strengthening of the freedom of individuals and women , as well as economic and social development . disturbing trends such as demographic youth , combined with high unemployment rates , reaching nearly 40 % in some places , highlight the potential explosive social conditions .
but given the global balance of power , this was more symbolic than a reflection of their real influence . then the cold war ended when the euro was taking a transatlantic focus . as far as security is concerned , the euro remains dependent on us , according to the rules . but on economic and technological fronts , europe 's states have gained sovereignty . in principle , this division of labor was shown in nato and eu .
he announced that he had hired an eyal arad , a well-known iraeli spin-doctor , who had decided to lead the presidential campaign . " the jews " are no longer enemies , he said , even working for him . but tudor did not stop with apologies to the people who had apologised to him . soon he was sponsoring the discovery of a break-up with the murdered israeli prime minister yitzak rabin in brasov in transylvania . for this occasion , tudor wore yarmulke and spoke of his philo-semitism for two hours .
independent investigative journalists in africa have often exposed corruption , abuse of power and trade in shadow . for example , in kenya , the main local newspaper reported that phil kinisu , the former chairman of the ethics and anti-corruption commission , received suspicious payments from the national department of youth . further investigations into the abbey revealed more corrupt deals , prompting kenyans to protest on the streets . but those who have power know how to defend themselves - and they do n't even flinch . as a result , many african countries are threatened , suppressed , and even dismantled .
china 's economy has succeeded in testing and error , and lessons from its current stress test should be considered to be part of this process , which will be used to drive another phase of economic reform . one of the key lessons is that chinese stock markets remain structurally biased towards state ownership and leadership , even when the country is building a more business economy . this is a fundamental problem , since it is a market ( not a state ) that identifies unicorns and supports them . however , china has already begun to build a more innovative industry and a more innovative industry , which is driven by the internet , and the state can continue to support innovation . however , as the government determines how to recharge its massive shares in a orderly manner , it must ensure that these efforts are financed by equity , not by leverage , thus improving the balance and resilience of the market .
his sudden departure from illness could cause a political vacuum that could have helped to gain power in one or the other , such as a military coup . strict compliance with constitutional provisions is essential in any event , according to the commission . the lack of free media is particularly worrying , and it is not a good thing to do with free and fair elections . it is essential that the opposition can freely broadcast its message and target potential voters - a point that has not been lost in the vez regime , since it seeks to further limit the opposition 's ability to reach the electorate . in this context , the latest attack on global television , the only surviving venezuela 's independent station , is emerging .
what 's the difference between 10 years , and what 's the difference between them ? private investors looked at large and awkward central banks in the 1990 " s as cows of cash , long on money , and a short period of financial activity . george soros once earned $ 1 billion from the england bank within an hour . his basic strategy was standard : to bet on every central bank that would defend a inconsistent macroeconomic policy . of course , traders did not win every battle , and they did not win .
but , contrary to expectations , household consumption growth has not yet increased , and businesses have not increased their investment . in the first quarter of this year , america 's gdp was barely more than the level achieved in the last year , and much of the increase was caused by goods produced , but not sold . the prevailing explanation - brutally cold winter - is so thin that everyone can see it . american consumers are still in danger of a crisis , and they are still not in danger . but there is another problem : in their homes and workplaces , there is a sense of excitement about the future , despite all the strange gadgetry around them .
there is no need to overcome the financing of bottlenecks more clearly than the energy supply of germany ( energy transition ) . in order to succeed , the energy generation , combined heat and energy systems , and the storage technology will need to be invested annually in networks , energy generation , combined energy generation , and energy storage technologies in the next decade . while some of these funds are financed by public budgets , a large majority of them will have to be provided by the private sector . moreover , the introduction of german digital infrastructure , in particular broadband networks , by international standards , will require significant investments , which could help to promote better regulatory framework . regulatory reform is also needed to strengthen the support of start-up companies - a space where germany is significantly weaker , which is reflected in the difficulties faced by these companies in obtaining venture capital .
beijing - is china ready to surpass the united states and become the world 's biggest economy ? the international monetary fund recently assumed that the size of china 's economy would be overtaken by the size of china 's economy in relation to the purchasing power parity by 2016 . but a recent study by robert feenstra , economist at the university of california , davis , showed that global economic leadership in china would be handed over to china in 2014 . and even more radically , the arvind subramanian institute of international economics claims that china actually surpassed us in 2010 . purchasing power is a measure of the country 's income using a set of international prices for all economies .
but one should not be able to make a decision , but he should not make it . the balance between imports and exports of energy is only the first approach to independence . as i have said in my book , the future of power is a global interdependence that includes sensitivity and vulnerability . if oil is a profitable commodity , the economy will remain sensitive to shocks in sudden world prices . in other words , the saudi arabia revolution , or the blockade of the strait of the hormuz , could still cause damage to us and its allies .
the amazon and indonesian rainforest are burning , and the climate disasters , such as typhoons , tornadoes and floods , have dire consequences for the entire population . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur . after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation .
the bottom can be close - maybe by the end of the year , maybe even by the end of the year . but that does not mean that the global economy is set for a thorough recovery . the reason for the strike is not to abandon strong measures that have been taken to revive the global economy . this economic crisis is complex , and it is a financial crisis that has been linked to the crisis . before its start , american consumers were a machine of global growth .
the fight against environmental and environmental problems in the world , and the improvement of many who have remained behind , will require public action , such as those i have seen in the world bank , the united nations and the british government . but it will also require the participation of the undertaking in the area of business . in my career , i have seen , above all , that growth , driven by commercial competition in the world , can do much more to combat poverty , hunger , and disease than programs funded by government . but if the competition is not responsible , the opposite can happen - and in many cases it has . in order to seize globalization 's opportunities , businesses have often neglected workers from the development world who leave the country and are subjecting workers from developing countries to extraordinary deprivation .
but it would be a step of incendiary , and it would n't be a good idea . many of the leavers would have seen it as a democratic coup , but they would have to be the first to do so . and since the outcome of the referendum in 2016 would be reverse , such a step would require a new plebiscite pitching would remain undecided . with any luck , johnson 's scorched-earth tactics will encourage his opponents to overcome their differences and stop the useless brexit . but whatever happens , the pragmatic center is being pushed out of british politics .
in support of these efforts , we urge the secretary-general of the general secretariat to appoint a special representative for the ocean , which is entrusted with improving the governance of the ocean and ensuring that the full potential of the sdg 14 is fully implemented . such a representative must have sufficient resources to carry out his duties . the ocean has suffered decades of abuse and has been neglected for years , and it has not been used for a long time . it was treated as a free waste bin and a buffet at the bottom . we have funded the destruction of the ship , regardless of the consequences we have suffered .
if crops fail , many farmers and farmers will commit suicide - as in 2016 , more than 1,400 people have been exposed to the crushing burden of debt ( often at the cost of usurious debt from the country 's creditors ) . this is the last year of the official data on suicides for farmers , but the media reports suggest that the numbers have grown since then . the biggest victims of the bjp government 's neglect of agriculture were small and marginal farmers , as well as farmers without land . two years ago , they were given a body blow by modi 's mindless and foolhardy system of demonetization , which suddenly withdrew 86 % of the india currency from circulation overnight . the daily wage workers , who were traditionally paid in cash , lost their jobs in millions , as the exchange of money was not printed in sufficient quantities .
with six billion people and counting - and growing our consumption - we face huge challenges in the use of natural resources in a sustainable way . and there is one clear measure of how we carry out this task : the rate of extinction . for this reason , some colleagues and i have calculated the rate of extinct birds in recent years , and the speed of their extinction in the future . birds are the best window for humanity 's massive and irreversible impact on the environment . for each of the 10,000 species of birds , there may be ten , maybe even a hundred other unknown species of animals , plants or mushrooms .
and finally , - perhaps the most important - they allow their users to perceive patterns and opportunities that would not be possible by traditional means . cognitive systems are inspired by the human brain . the traditional computer architecture is growing , and it seems that the limits are growing , as energy consumption is rising , and the delay in transmission between components is becoming increasingly difficult . in terms of energy efficiency , measured according to the number of calculations per energy unit on " unstructured " data , the human brain is carrying roughly 10,000 times better than the best machine . today , computers consume about 10 % of the world 's electricity production .
munich - there are currently discussions about establishing a common deposit insurance system for eurozone banks . the incentive to implement the scheme , the euro and the european central bank ( eb ) , points out that deposit insurance would prevent banks from being threatened in times of crisis . while this argument is true , critics emphasize differences in risks as a result of a large proportion of bad credit on banks " balance sheets in some countries . in order to address this risk disparity and proceed with the plan , the balance sheet must be cleaned before considering the next step . while the share of outstanding loans for banks in the eurozone is only 2 % , the latest published statistics on the monetary fund , the last of april 11 % for ireland , 16 % for ireland , 40 % for cyclists , 46 % for green .
she 's in prison because she 's lost her power , and she 's not in the world . this is a dangerous precedent , because it creates strong motivations - the winner will take everything , the loser goes to prison - for ruthlessness . it is difficult to predict how tymoshenko 's case will be - whether yanukovych will succumb to pressure from the european union and the united states to release it , or the forces that want to rule it out forever . until recently , the ukrainian leaders were accustomed to more effective means than prison for dealing with inappropriate adversaries . in 2000 , for example , george gongadze was kidnapped and executed after publishing reports of corruption at a high level .
innovation is what makes wealth and jobs - or rather because of - competition from poor countries . and the rich countries " wealth helps poor people by increasing demand for goods . globalization 's enemies still see this circle as a vicious circle that promotes the use of poor and vulnerable people . there are issues of general justice and human rights . it is certainly necessary to make a strong case for universal and impartial use of values .
that 's why abe was the first foreign politician after the british prime minister theresa could congratulate him personally in 2017 . in some important ways , japan has benefited from being under the wing of america , and from the post-war constitution , which is not just pacifist , but also from democratic power , which has been more democratic than all the countries have ever had , enshrined in individual rights , full suffrage and freedom of expression . the constitutionally unable to participate in military adventures , except as a producer of highly paid goods in various asian conflicts in america , could focus on rebuilding its industrial power . but democracy , which americans are proud of after 1945 , is also hindered by our intervention . like this , japan was on the frontline in a cold war .
all of this economic legerdemain has been magnified by television , press and press . in addition to a few good stories in the press , it is difficult to argue that anyone who has read or listened to the english media 's coverage of the campaign could learn anything interesting or important about the economic policy , which could be better suited to america . the economic profession is part of the blame for that , and it is also a matter of fact . the winners of the bel prize , such as edward prescott , do not have a business to talk about the benefits of tax cuts , without pointing out that the tax cuts , accompanied by an increase in spending , are not a tax cut , but a tax shift in the future - and a tax shift that increases the risk and discourages accumulation . but most of the problem is based on an underinformed , undereducated and uninteresting press corps .
until now , they have failed to carry out their activities in institutional structures , which is a necessary requirement for any successful national movement . the nationalism of the palestinian population is deeply entrenched in the consciousness of most palestinians - but since 1948 , when the united nations have proposed a split of british palestine in two states , jewish and arab , it has not moved from ideology to reality . neither violence nor terrorism nor external forces ( the arab league , the soviet union , the euro union ) , failed to deliver state power , which people can only achieve by their own agency - which is called " automatic emancipation . " fayad is the first palestinian leader who has not appeared in the movement of fatah , and he may understand what other palestinian leaders have not understood , because they have been poisoned with their own ideology and violence . perhaps the palestinians are on the verge of a new chapter of their history - and in the history of the island and the entire region .
any diplomatic effort to denounce north korea must also mitigate china 's geostrategic concerns about the future of the korean peninsula . china feared for centuries that the peninsula would be part of a chain of circumcision or an invasion route . in 1592 , general toyotomi hideyoshi invaded the korean kingdom to set up a beaver for chinese invasion . china , under the ming dynasty , fought with korea against the japanese army . three centuries later , chinese qing dynasty fought the war with the japanese in 1894 , so that the japanese could not rule the korea .
but it is a slant that deserves attention , as the problem can not be solved by conventional policy responses . the " official " story about technology is a response to accelerating the change as inevitable . according to the acronyically named institutions , the tanks , the task force , the ad hoc genus omne , automation and artificial intelligence ( ai ) , will soon be eliminated or altered by a large , but unpredictable number of human jobs . the adoption of new technologies is also considered necessary for the success of the country 's geopolitical and competitive environment . it is therefore necessary to welcome disruption to existing working patterns and " mitigate " by adapting education and social security systems to the needs of the labour market for automatic workers .
first , develop , maintain and use local capacities and leadership in the area of management . developing scientific and technical capacities is less difficult than maintaining them , and maintaining them is less difficult than using them . but the ultimate impact of science and technology is dependent on all three factors . so african countries must invest in scientific and technical education and training , and they must also be able to carry out their activities . each country must also develop strategies that offer local jobs for scientists and technology .
the code of conduct on the field - where players expect to give their entire body a clear rule , which is rapidly enforced by independent referees - is essentially the same as we expect from the authorities from the field . in this sense , the fifa is not a special case : all non-profit and profit-making organizations around the world are expected to follow this code of conduct . and that 's why it 's unlikely that 50 of the problems will disappear from view . they must be addressed directly to each other , with a clean sweep of its leadership and complete overview of its governance structures . 50 is as complex as any large international private or public organization ; as it is governed , it must be taken into account .
young people in the west have largely provided the morning newspaper with domestic supplies , and they have always caught up with the news when they choose , using tablets , laptops or mobile phones . as advertising revenue has been released from the internet giants " facebook and google , newspaper profits have fallen . in recent years , industry has faced many failures , and people who have still worked often have provided a large number of employees , especially in foreign countries . in the united states , the number of journalists in full-time has fallen by 20 % since 2001 . even a couple of grand titles have either closed or published only on the internet .
people came from the baltics countries of the 1940s , hungary in 1956 , after the coup in 1973 and after the revolution in 1979 . for decades , the sweat-sector has been dependent on immigrants ' workers who have been immigrant . during the war in the bosnian war in the 1990 " s , the sweden opened the door to about 100,000 people - a challenge that was , at any time , at a time of deep economic crisis . but it turned out that the bosnian immigrants had fared roughly as well as the ones who had accepted them and enriched our society . in the new century , the refugees came from the middle east and the african horn .
a third of those companies have gained a technical company since 2015 , but they have not been used since the start of the year . foreign businesses are also rushing to exploit europe 's technological talent , which is why they are now working on the market . google , facebook and amazon have all announced a large expansion of their european technological hubs . last year , transactions worth more than $ 88 billion - compared to 3.3 billion in 2014 - including the purchase of a british semiconductor-design firm and a qualcomm $ 47 billion purchase of nxp semiconductors . another study , conducted by the boston advisory group , points out that many small european union member states , which focus on exports , are in particular in benelux , baltic and nordic countries , which are above us in the so-called " e-intensity , " which includes infrastructure , internet access , and businesses , consumers and government engagement in internet-related activities .
the chinese dream is not an exception , but it is a dream of a dream . meanwhile , the public reaction was from a puzzlement to derision , but it was a complete complete complete complete complete complete complete complete complete complete complete complete complete complete complete chaos . after a decade of government slogan , chinese citizens want to be a substance . this is a real challenge for xi , and this is a real challenge . he got up on top by winning friends and allies in the ccp .
demonstrations begin in large cities and demand an end to corruption among party officials . china 's government decided that it would not be able to risk further strife , and it would announce a set of measures to boost economic growth and prevent layoffs , including direct financial support for exporters and intervention in the currency markets , in order to weaken the renminbi . president mitt romney has just taken office in the us , following a tough campaign in which he has derided barack obama for being too weak for china 's economic policy . the combination of financial contagion from europe , which has already resulted in a serious credit crisis , and sudden flood of cheap imports from china leaves the romney administration in a tight spot . against the advice of his economic advisers , he announces that the chinese exports are subject to an across-rate import duty .
why would the government continue to advance to be lenient with top bankers in these circumstances ? i do not believe that the government 's stance reflects any form of corruption - payments paid to individuals or even political campaigns . and in this case , it does not even appear to reflect the lobbying power of the main financial entities . this force is certainly explaining why financial reforms implemented in 2010 were not strong , and why they now oppose the effective implementation of this legislation ( for example , there is currently a huge fight against the rule of " volcker , " which would limit the owner 's trading of megabanks ) . but the criminal activities of creditors in mortgage lending are another issue , according to the commission .
much of what happened in bosnia - including efforts to carry out the concept of universal justice - is being applied to the present world . indeed , those who recall the bosnian war will find many of their features in syria today . syria seems hopelessly divided into factions , and violence seems unstoppable . the international community was unable to achieve any unity , let alone a deal . of course , there are also significant differences between them , and there are also significant differences .
given china 's own history of vulnerability to foreign intervention , unilateral efforts to maintain overwhelming offensive superiority would only trigger a destabilizing race of weapons . some us strategists are seeking to solve this dilemma in a largely technical way . their approach , the concept of " air battle , " means a mixture of defensive and offensive tools that address the new challenges posed by the spread of anti-strike weapons . officially , the pentagon does not focus on the concept of " air battle " against any country . for example , the irish possession of the ability to strike the right - and much more hostile relations with america - would require new initiatives to address the growing security weaknesses .
should she have taken an important role at this stage , what do you think ? do you think she would have to be happy about it , or would she have to be happy like a woman ? mrs. watanabe will give her daughter the nudge she needs , and she 'll be fine . mrs. watanabe has the talent to see how the tide is changing . she advised her to take the opportunity to work , and find happiness in marriage and children .
even if we can continue the fight against corruption , we ca n't do everything ourselves . international support for our efforts is essential , and it is a prerequisite for the development of the eu . the euro 's recent decision to rebuild and develop the euro bank ( ebrd ) is a positive sign that it will give 215 million dollars to complete nuclear power stations in rivne and khmelnytsky , which will offset the loss of chernobyl 's production capacity . euro also helps with a loan of 585 million to fund repairs at the ukraine nuclear power plant . in return , the ukraine will keep the deal : in addition to the closure of chernobyl , we will introduce standards for nuclear security in the west and renew cooperation with the imf through an expanded fund program .
russian people wanted to change , and they were amazingly different : their energy and cohesion ended the communist rule . russia , of course , had not been institutionalized by democracy since the 1980 " s and early 1990 , but also revolutionary excitement . it was expected that new democratic institutions would be emerging from this sea . instead , political life is limited to mere formality , and the state is not so much of a problem . although there is nothing like soviet oppression , alienation between states and society is reminiscent of soviet times .
berlin - more than a year in the arab is turning , their results remain highly uncertain . but some of the lessons of international politics - and especially in the west , in particular in europe , in foreign policy - deserve a serious consideration . the revolution surprised everyone , though political and social causes were known . as it is often true in the case of a systemic crisis , we have known the phenomena , but we have not understood their interactions , partly because politicians and analysts do not want to anticipate their violations : the familiar situation is considered stable , even if it is known that it is problematic . ( consider saudi arabia , which is the united states and the majority of the west , are still regarded as a " stability island . " )
when the market tightened in 2011 , many projects " prospects declined , prompting lgfvs to seek credit in the shadow banking sector , which caused their borrowing costs to rise and create new challenges in the market for reforms . however , since china is a net creditor , lgfv 's debt has no global systemic impact . while china 's outstanding local debt was 29 trillion cn ( 4.7 billion dollars ) , its land and long-term assets were worth about 90 trillion cn , meaning that even if the value of assets was reduced by half , the local government would remain solvent . this leaves only a debt service issue , but it is not a debt service . in order to resolve this , the government announced that fiscal reforms would divide revenue between central and local governments and allow local governments to issue long-term municipal bonds .
the dominance of ideology on the free market before the crisis has enabled numerous controversial social changes , ranging from inequality in income , and has increased wage competition to greater equality between men and men , and positive measures that have not been contested . " progressive " social liberalism and " conservative " free-market economy seemed to be two sides of the same coin . but when economic liberalism in the free market failed in 2008 , the political challenges of social liberalism could not be reflected in the fact that impersonal economic laws could be invoked . but if social change is no longer legitimized as a necessary condition for economic progress , it is unlikely that democracy will now vote for social conditions before the rise in economic liberalism and globalization . racial equality and gender equality are now supported by clear majority majority in us , britain and most of europe 's countries , and even popular policies such as trade protectionism and strict immigration control , are rarely supported by more than 30-40 % of the population .
as we predicted , china will have to reach a growth of more than 5 % in the 20-2030 period , because it will only reach its peak . although pessimists will no doubt find confirmation of further growth in china , optimistic mists can claim that china 's five % annual growth in china is nominally equivalent to 15-20 % growth in germany . at this stage , china 's development would be highly unusual . it is also assumed that india will grow much faster than china , because its workforce is still growing . the real question is whether india can implement strong reforms to boost production and increase production .
equally important is the contextual intelligence that allows the leader to change his ability to create a successful combination of " intelligent power . " during his campaign , obama demonstrated his ability to respond calmly to crises , with a look at the future , and with his gorgeous organizational ability . moreover , his contextual intelligence on world politics has been shaped from the bottom of experience in indonesia and kenya , and american politics has been shaped from the bottom of the world as a community organiser in chicago . obama continued to show these skills in his almost flawless transition to leadership . by selecting his main opponent , the clinton , as secretary of state , and by reaching the other side lines , he held robert 's gates as a defense minister , he showed his openness to the strong subordinates .
with the economy of pakistan in the end , and with the jihad culture of so many young pakistanis , the international credibility of the country is undermining , the moderate voices are finally breaking . lakhani recently argued at dawn that pakistan 's largest circulation newspaper , " pkistan 's special occupation with kashmir , " was self-defeating . it has certainly led to the fact that the country has supported economic , social , and political development . [ 39 ] he reduced the country 's position and left a reputation . even spiritual development has been reinforced by the spread , population , and increased relative power ... of religious groups that are intolerant , militant , and interpreted by the islands . "
the gref program also emblematic the president 's style : modernization from above - ie , which has been initiated by government and under pressure - is consistent with the modernization of the country from below , according to the private initiative . the program is dominated by liberal ideas : ensuring and protecting property rights , deregulation and encouraging competition . in addition , the gref program aims at creating an effective ownership of private property . deregulation ( " debureaucratization " ) will make life easier for new businesses by reducing the number of inspections carried out by bureaucrats , and reducing the number of applications for licenses and other red tape ( which is also a major source of bribery ) . increasing competition will mean highlighting anti-trust policy and reducing state subsidies for the state .
the pattern is beginning to look familiar : a new crisis , a new meeting in brussels , initially confused responses , discussions , and divisions , and then gradually , gradually , step by step toward a common response , driven by the realization that there is no other option . in today 's disagreements , the roots of a stronger union are the roots of this union . the public is no longer thinking of the european project as a utopian effort , an abstract attempt to forge an ever-closer union . the more practical and absolutely necessary mechanism for a group of small countries to cooperate in order to address their common challenges is the eu mechanism . people of eu are actually waking up to a world that is more dangerous , divided and disoriented .
in other words , i would have followed a few of my harvard colleagues , who would have traveled to libya to exchange views with their dictator and advise them - and would they be paid for their services ? these scientists have been in the media for weeks , as they have reportedly been linked to qaddafi . sir howard davies decided to resign as a director of a lse , which gave the saif a doctorate ( which was a plagiarized ) , and he took money from the libyan regime . there is a strong sense that academics and institutions , who collaborated with such a vile regime - often encouraged by governments - have undoubtedly suffered a serious decline in judgment . the muammar el-qaddafi 's murderous stance during the insurgency revealed his true colors , no matter how moderate he was in recent years .
in 2016 , obama faced difficult choices in assessing the escalating potential of response to cyber measures , or in response to cross-sectoral measures such as sanctions . the government did not want to take steps that could disrupt the election itself . so eight days before the vote , russia sent a warning to the election , which was played on the line - three years ago , when it was supposed to be dealt with by major cyber incidents - which connected the nuclear risk reduction centers in both countries . as russia 's hacking activity slowed or ceased , the obama administration announced a warning as a successful attempt to deter . but some critics say that russian countries have already achieved their main objectives , and that they have never achieved such a high level of defense .
once it is established , humanitarian workers and educators will be given support to develop immediate plans to provide education to children affected by emergencies , based on the knowledge that humanitarian , development and security needs can no longer be addressed in the context of silos . the injection of funds would enable the immediate delivery of education in emergencies , which would support a common strategy developed in cooperation with governments . the fund will thus fill the gap in coordination and provision of services by strengthening the system at the weakest point and providing a bridge to longer-term development . if this initiative was implemented before the earthquake , it could provide 12 months of emergency support and help the country until it was able to re-educate it according to national plans . in a more protracted crisis , such as the syrian financial platform , the financing platform could help neighbouring countries to create a long-term financial strategy for supporting international communities , perhaps by providing a deal that would allow donors to pay the principal principal for more than 30 years on loans from world bank .
rabin knew , despite all his deep emotional attachment to the idea of israel , as he accepted all historical judea and samaria , that the only way to secure a democratic jewish state with viable and safe borders was to accept the palestinian state , which was equally secure and viable . they will share their shares as a capital and find a solution that will be acceptable to the extremely sensitive issue of the return of palestine refugees . rabin 's murder was a disaster , and the peace process has never been restored . since then , no commander has shown anything like his far-sighted vision , commitment and ability to deliver a two-state solution . the ehud barak and ehud olmert came close , but not close enough .
some might think it 's only possible if the logical end of evolution and intelligent life is to be a nuclear explosion that will destroy the earth . but that 's not what schneider and sagan are talking about . instead , they make a distinction between mass and energy , and they say that mass mass is distributed in structures that expand energy gradients faster than randomly distributed matter . as an example , they consider the phenomenon of beer drinkers who have been known for a long time . if you want to empty the water bottle and turn it upside down , the water will be found in uneven glugs .
the notion of argentina as a country with endless promises turned into a desaparecido , a name given to those who had disappeared during the 1970 's dirty war . we lost the principle of organizing the organization , and there was no other idea . we do n't have a guide anymore , we do n't know how to think about our country , how to understand and how to imagine who we are and who we are . argentina has become a country that does not have a direction , and it is not a country . it was n't easy to live without knowing who we were , and it was even harder to live like that when we watched our world fall apart .
some of the cia 's current officials are still insist on the value of the " enhanced interrogation " program ( which obama stopped ) , despite the conclusion of the senate report that the methods used did not provide valuable intelligence . indeed , other reports of america 's " global war on terror " also show that many people who were detained and tortured were not threatened by us security - at least until we took action . the week came the senate report , i read the new book of anand gopal , among the living , which is now telling the story of the current afghaghaunts , the former president of the village of karzai , the leader of the taliban , and the housewife of the kabul-born , who had spent years in the pur-ban country . the same story is repeated : a local power-broker , who is willing to support the new government supported by the programme , is willing to be condemned as a member of the taliban - usually for local political or personal reasons - to unwitting american troops . indeed , this pattern is repeated in the accounts of anyone who lives in afghanistan , speaks the language and understands the workings of patronage and power .
the governor , who had been elected a year ago by arnold schwarzenegger , had to give californian voters a huge - if guilty - pleasure . some of the opposition in germany would be very much in love with chancellor schröder , though they still have n't found the film star to replace him . several other european governments are in a similar state of unpopularity shortly after their election . this is true even for the recently declared brazilian president luis inacio " lula " da silva , not to mention anything about mexican president victoria fox and south korean president ross . it seems to me that electoral success is rapidly fading , and it is now fading .
and the " opening dividend " was also reaching maturity and faced with protectionist barriers around the world . china can still use new markets through efforts such as " belt and road transport initiatives , " but at considerable cost . in the end , sustainable growth requires a global value chain to be developed , by implementing further economic reforms and focusing on new technologies . the chinese government 's 13th five-year plan ( 2016-2020 ) was based on its commitment to allocate resources to the market and reducing the cost of trading . and in 2015 , the " chinese 2025 " and " internet plus " initiatives indicated that the country 's manufacturing base would be decided to take over the internet age .
the iea expects 195 million people with a solar system outside the grid to get 170kwh a year - or half of what we use in a year on flat-screen television . perhaps it was n't surprising that the first test , published on the impact of solar panels on the lives of poor people , found that , while they were still getting more electricity , their lives were measurable : they did n't increase the savings or expenditure , they did n't work , they did n't even start working more , and their children did n't study much . it 's no wonder , 170kwh is n't what most of us would consider real access to electricity . energy from the network at this level will never be able to produce a factory or an agricultural holding , so that poverty can not be reduced or created . and it will not help the world 's biggest environmental killer : the air pollution inside the air , which is mainly caused by the fire from the open fire , the cardboard , the manure , and the 3.8 million lives of the population each year .
since 1990 to 2010 , the number of deaths and disability in countries with low income has increased by 300 % faster than the number of disease decline . some of the same factors in recent ebola outbreaks lead to a high number of ncds . residents of densely crowded urban areas in emerging economies often face external and outdoor pollution , and they are less likely to have adequate nutrition . most health systems are not built for chronic and preventive care and are not protected by basic consumer protection . in the period 1992-2000 , cigarette consumption has tripled in developing countries .
rather , politics itself has become operational , and it has become functional , and it has not been functional . when citizens and politicians consider politics as a zero-sum game and resort to malaise and other tactics of bad faith , malaise is in place . europe and america 's debates were rewritten by posturing and testing of will and political change in the " chicken " game . in chicken , two drivers are rushing toward the cliff ( or against each other ) , the first driver of a loser is to escape before the impending catastrophe . but if neither driver accepts , they will be destroyed by both of them .
political institutions have not progressed in terms of technological change and market growth . when ordinary egyptians , organized by social media , rallied in the tahrir square of cairo and toppled former president hosni mubarak in 2011 , it seemed to me that technology would necessarily boost democracy . but it soon became clear that these digital platforms could easily be co-elected by authoritarian governments or terrorists , and they could spread false reports , influence electoral processes , and create a deep division of society . in the business world , the quasi-monopoly and monopsony power of global corporations , and the ability to move profits to low-tax jurisdictions , are largely preceded by the purview of national regulatory authorities and governments , despite a series of measures that support efforts to prevent erosion and profit from businesses . and biotechnology will pose a huge challenge , as human cloning and genetic screening will allow parents to choose embryos with the desired properties .
addressing the problems that are facing us will require more federal revenue . for example , the increase in living standards is due to technological innovation , which depends on basic research . but federal government support research as a percentage of the gdp is now comparable to those of the 60 years before . while trump the candidate criticized the growth of national debt , he now proposes a tax cut , which would add trillions of debt to the next decade - not just " only " 1.5 billion dollars , which would be added to the republicans , thanks to a miracle of growth , which would lead to a more tax return . but the key lesson of ronald reagan 's " voodoo " economy has not changed : the tax cuts , like this , do not lead to a faster increase , but only to lower revenue .
although many of us do not seem to want to have a public option , this is still a real achievement . the same approach can be taken in the second year in order to address the remaining outstanding fiscal issues . obama can use the status of a union report to create a bipartisan strategy to reduce the budget deficit to a sustainable level . this would mean restoring the rules on pay-you-go and establishing an independent commission to submit to congress 's evidence ( and to demonstrate filibuster-proof evidence ) recommendations for tax reform and expenditure reform . but obama needs to be more responsible for financial reform , where , as well as health care , there are more conflicting proposals .
the war - poland has now appeared as the last european battleground in a duel between two democracy models - liberal and illiberal . the overwhelming victory in the election in the ocław kaczyć 's far-right law and the legal party ( pis ) has led to a change in the regime rather than a normal turnover of democratically elected governments . the new government of prime minister beata szydło has purged the public service ( including radio and television ) , and has taken a constitutional court of sympathizers and has weakened the court 's ability to implement the legislation . the european commission has initiated an official investigation into possible infringements of the rules of law in eu . moreover , standard and poor countries first applied for a reduction in the currency rating of the country 's foreign currency - from - to bb + - and warned that there might be more cuts to the government , as it accuses the weakening of " independence and efficiency of key institutions . "
in addition , in the shield tradition , the mahdi strategy , the shiitah , will intimidate all enemies when they return to earth . but growing fear in others is more susceptible to fear , and there is nothing more scary about khamenei and the leaders of the islamic republic than the social dynamism that has been unleashed by democratic movement in the country . the regime seems to believe there is only a small likelihood of a military attack . he does n't think sanctions can cause a collapse of the system of sanctions . therefore , it seems that the external forces do not pose a major threat to them .
the british have put sunni arabs in their political interests - never more than 25 % of the population - in control of the entire country , and even imported the sunni prince of hashemite to rule on their creation . since then , the country can only be combined with an iron fist : iraq 's history is filled with shia , kurdish , and even christian christian christian revolts , all of which are written by the ruling minority . modern iraq has always been the most oppressive in the past . the saddam rule was only the most brutal in the long line of sunni regimes . it was this sunni hegemony - not just the hegemony of the ba'athist regime of the saddam - that toppled the united states .
proteins that maintain the same function throughout very different species - usually with orthologics - are expected to keep the same number . but amino acids that form the protein chain in these orthologs can vary considerably . sometimes , the range of identification of the sequence between two orthologics may be 25-30 % , but their curve is remarkably similar , and it is proving to be a function of evolutionary change . this protein preservation is more complex in all species , since it is well known that the number of human genes is deceptively small , only one order of size is larger than rice . if the proteins structure is preserved in different species , where are we going to be complex ?
george 's current economic collapse is not a sufficient incentive for any of these independent republics to support reunification . similarly , george 's inability to manage relations with his only autonomous republic , adzharia , is not a source of much confidence . the people of the city of guhahar are considered george , but they still have a frequent relationship with the central government , so how can ethically distinguish abkhazia and south ossetia make sure their relationship with george helps ? president saakashvili understands the need to revive george 's economy , which requires political stability . but it is unlikely that russia would blame the country for the growing tensions with abkhazia and south ossetia .
moreover , the scottish , welsh and ireland have come to see membership as a guarantee against english political revanchism . as in the past , imperialism is seeking unity , but it has side effects . the brewery 's imagination of global britain is focused directly on the english identity of the nation , while diluting the scottish , northern ireland and welsh that will return to serve as a junior partner in a much less magnificent and more valuable english project . although socioeconomic factors have played a role in the outcome of the referendum on brexit , geographical breakdown is telling the real story . in addition to london , which is the basis for multi-ethnic cosmopolitanism , 55 % of the electorate in the england were supported by the fact that they were leaving the country , 62 % of the scots , 56 % of the northern ireland 's votes were not voted for .
the document has presented a case of alternatives to fossil fuels , which have ensured that economic development does not cause damage to the environment and acknowledges the importance of climate change . in the past month , we have also seen a promising development in climate discussions , when the conservative american business institute , a liberal institution for brokers and a central breakthrough institute , has set up a report that calls for a new generation of american energy to be revamped to the cheap energy of clean energy . the report , which is called " partisan power , " is widely and convincingly convincing that the government should invest approximately $ 25 billion a year in the area of military procurement in the us , r & d , and a new network of innovation centres in the universal private sector , in order to create a " energy revolution . " this sensible proposal predictably drew fire from the " alarmists " committed and " denial . " but , in promissory terms - and surprisingly , given the somewhat toxic state of politics - it attracted broad support and intelligent comments from many mainstream pundits .
all four north africa rulers have become the center of opaque energy structures . everything in their country depends on the person and the family , not on the office . yet , despite the apparently firm grip of these authoritarian leaders , it is not as easy as it seems . the problem is to overcome any resistance - both from the elite and the public - which could derail the handover or undermine the authority of the successor . the need to act with elite interests requires ingenuity , but it is not necessary to act .
it seems to me that there is almost a universal agreement that should be applied , and that international pressure is being applied to president kostunica . but the decision may have implications for the life and death of serbia 's future . many who agree that milosevic is a war criminal now think we should listen to voices coming from below and their cry , which will be a trial before his own people . the ultimate moral responsibility for what has been done by milosevic is the serbia of the people . they brought him to power , though not in a way that would exactly match democratic norms ; they supported him , even when he led them to genocide crimes and defeated them .
for starters , we 're moving again into what henry kissinger called a realm of " constructive ambiguity . " the palestinians were assured by the president barack obama report , which was delivered by his special envoy george mitchell , that the israelis would not be " provocations " during the next four months of indirect negotiations . the palestinians have admitted that this effect does not contain written promises . but a recent trip to israel , a white adviser to dan shapiro , has been told that the israelis will not embarrass their american friends . shapiro handed the ultra-orthodox leader of the island 's shas to the white house .
in short , some authoritarian modernizers ( such as singapore 's lee kuan ew ) serve their country better than democratically elected leaders ( for example , italy 's silvio berlusconi ) . but democracies in the long run are using mechanisms that do not have self-repair mechanisms , and where ten leaders are not enough to keep up with power . indeed , there are many authoritarian non-modernizers in all lee kuan , such as winter winter winter mugabe or uzbekistan 's islam karimov . the chinese model combines some of the benefits of authoritarian modernization - centralized power , rapid decision-making , isolation from populism , and a better way to implement painful , but necessary reforms - with a leadership turnover by depersonalizing political struggle . china 's rulers are , after all , driven primarily by the desire to keep the party , not the individual , in power .
the dilution of glass steagall and its final repeal in 1999 enabled banks to use so-called " proprietary trading " - which enabled them to use depositors " savings to sell their own account , especially in risky securities covered by mortgage lending . but the obama government must proceed further than to prohibit trading on its own by commercial banks and to do two other things . first , capital requirements should be tripled - not just in the case of us , but in the case of g-20 - so banks have at least 20-25 % of the assets in the base capital . shareholders , rather than regulators , would play a leading role in ensuring banks behave sensibly . second , if banks are too big to fail , they must be reduced , so taxpayers do n't have to pay them every time the crisis erupts .
and do n't make a mistake : the deal is good . its collapse would trigger a nuclear weapon race in the most unstable area of the world . the most bitter regional enemy , saudi arabia , will quickly move to nuclear capability , using rich petro-dollars and pakistani tools . others - turkey , kuwait , egypt and algeria - would not be far behind . to make sure these countries , who have gained such weapons , are responsible for the risk of a risk .
the concert itself offered a layer of importance to the layer of importance , but it was not a good thing . the bacteria of beethoven were reborn on the ashes of hitler 's germany . today , germany is a world of admiration , peace , war abhorring , democratic , prosperous , innovative and cooperative countries . the genius of beethoven is not only his native germany , but also the west , but all of humanity . his scoring of the poetic ode of schiller reflects the real world 's ambition of enlightenment .
instead , the government provided at least ( very interest ) loans , rather than taking part in massive equity buyouts . they did n't even get the oligarchs out of the house , and they did n't even get out of it . the government paid only $ 10 billion in 2008 . the terms offered by the government ( bor + 5 % and collateral ) are clearly in place . how did the economic policy in this crisis be reflected in the fact that it was not necessary ?
washington , dc - as president of the chinese president xi jinping , is taking place at the first summit of president donald trump at trump 's luxurious flower estate , at least in part , the debate will always focus on one of the world 's most impoverished places . over the course of more than twenty years , north korea 's nuclear weapons program is pushing the world toward a strategic watershed , much like the one that was before 60 years ago in the west , when the united states and soviet union were facing each other in europe . the two of us and its allies have successfully managed to handle the europe 's challenge in the twentieth century without war . but to achieve comparable success in east asia , trump must convince xi to adopt a different policy towards north korea . when we and the soviet union became rivals after world war ii , they were able to prevent the second attack .
that 's not an absurd idea , but a good idea , and i 'm not going to be able to understand . there is a long and distinguished tradition of the catholic social mindset , and the world is a great tradition of its own . but taking these traditions seriously requires much more transformations of capitalism than the fact that christian democrats are willing to consider , including a much wider division of ownership and mechanisms for the involvement of workers in the management of the population . in this direction , theories of " red toryism " may be somehow different , but it is still unclear whether they will ever translate into practice . for a moment , the temptation is to find a " new look " in europe 's right to choose religion - and wait and see if it works as a electoral strategy .
fiscal sustainability requires an eventual increase in consumption tax , and , of course , japan should not wait for international investors to doubt their will . the problem is in the timing and tactics of the plan , and the problem is that we can do it . postponing the second increase in consumer tax seems to be a good compromise between pushing abenomics to escape the speed and maintain long-term credibility . but that brings us back to japan 's deeper problems , and we do n't know what else . demand policy alone will not prevent another two decades , let alone guarantee two gold .
usually , supine republicans in congress panicked and told trump and his team that his family 's collapse policy could destroy their chances in the middle of the election . in fact , the separation of families threatened to drive a wedge between a trump and even his devilish followers . and they were willing to overlook the growing evidence of trump 's sexual abuse during the marriage with the first lady melania ( including apparent payoffs for porn star and others for silence ) , in exchange for political influence and appointment of social conservatives to the supreme court and the federal court . especially for her , the first lady , laura bush , spoke out of the way of taking children out of her mother . one problem for the trump is that he 's obsessed with the fact that he looks " strong . "
but membership in the country does not mean that russia is alienating the country . in addition , the exclusion of ukraine from membership in the eu eu eu eu area will support russia 's imperial ambitions . this will diminish russia 's chances of becoming a complete democracy , as it can only rule the empire as a militarized state . it 's a sign of a good club that people call for membership , and they want to be . a political unit with a large population would create a more extensive eu , and would strengthen the union 's ambitions to become a global power .
businesses have been encouraged by government subsidies and loans , but they have not been able to provide financial assistance . they have been set up by schools and training centres , and they have been able to work with them . within a few years , the refugees were absorbed into the economy and the southern and greenery sector of the island . as in the post-world war , the west germany , which is currently largely a cynic , is the result of an increase in the economy that has been achieved by the absorption of refugees . anyone who visits the greek cypriot is not going to find refugee camps today : in most millions of tourists , he does n't know that more than a third of the greek cypriots are refugees or refugees .
in nigeria , an incredible economic growth , an average of 7 % a year , could have reduced poverty in the southwest of the country , but in the northeast ( where the extreme group of extremist groups boko haram is most active ) , there were shocking inequality in wealth and poverty . similar trends are evident from china to the ego point of view to the ece . in addition to inequality , the decline in public confidence is a source of rebellion against globalization and democracy . many people believe that rich are richer because they do n't have the same rules as others . it 's not hard to understand why , but i do n't know why .
he reported that russian officers were directly in command of large military operations in eastern part of the country , including siege and detention of a major transport center in febbve . but the threat posed by russia is far beyond the reach of the country 's territory . russia is the only country where missiles and nuclear warheads are destroyed . since economic and geopolitical influence has declined , it is also willing to consider renouncing its nuclear status . indeed , it did not only revive the cold wartime tactics of sending unannounced military aircraft into the airspace of the baltics and the north sea .
as the franco-lebanese writer amin maalouf said , " it 's better to erase hope than to be in despair . " unlike many democratic cassandras , the worst is not inevitable . authoritarians and populists have not yet won , and democrats are fighting in many places . democracy and autocracy , or less optimistically , are still at the same time a similar chance of collapse . for now , it is still uncertain what model will prevail in the future .
the prevailing answer is that one of the bondholders willingly accepts the deal . one could dismiss this dispute as a mere rhetoric , but it would be a mere rhetoric . but using the logic of the logic of the procedure , it is also possible to demonstrate that there are mechanisms that can be used to push participants in the interest of obtaining better voluntary results . there are two very important interpretations of the passage of the talmuds . one says that coercion can change the minds of the people who are not entitled to it .
tokyo - with the japanese economy struggling to escape the flationary torpor , the economic recovery plan , which was launched in 2012 by prime minister shinzo . but the current japanese travellers , which at the same time led to a decline in the stock market in japan , were due to yen 's appreciation - 24 % over the past year - compared to the main currency . " abenomics " - which included substantial monetary and fiscal expansion - do not have anything to do with it . since the introduction of abenomics , the labor market has improved significantly : a 1.5 million new jobs have been created , and unemployment rates have fallen by more than 3 % . moreover , corporate profits have increased , and tax revenues have increased by more than $ 20 billion .
milan - it seems to me that the worst financial / economic crisis has been over . in 2010 , asset markets were fairly well carried out in 2010 , but they were not in the market . the growth in the united states and parts of the euro have returned to the original state . the decline in private sectors continued , but it was offset by increasing public debt and public debt . and emerging market growth has returned to pre-crisis levels , and it seems to be sustainable , which has helped unorthodox policies to sterilize massive capital inflows .
in a sovereign world , is it hypocritical that some nuclear weapons are used and others deny it ? if no one had a bomb today , it would be better if they had n't invented it . but history depends on the paths that have been used in the past , and they have been used . it was probably 1939 , and states were considering whether we should invent a bomb . they could have argued that everything would get to him , or none of them .
hong kong - china 's transformation from the economy driven by manufacturing and exported to one of the services and domestic consumption is underway . and that 's good news not just for china , but for the future of the world economy . the change is maps out by the 2016-17 edition of the chinese business book by commercial intelligence and chinese science academy . china 's retail markets reached cn 30 trillion in 2015 , after more than a decade of double-digit growth . household consumption is rising , even if investment is falling , and 60 % of the total amount of the gross domestic product is now falling .
the global market for these stimulants is estimated to be $ 65 billion . part of the synthetic drugs is that they are readily available , affordable and appropriate ( they do n't need to shoot , snort or smoke ) . amphetamines speed up the way the body works : users are more confident , sociable and energy . this buzz is considered harmless : " the pills do n't kill or spread hivs / aids , " it says . but what 's going on is going to happen to me , but what 's going on ?
since then , attempts have been made to systematically examine and document the environmental consequences of the wars . studies of balkans and many wars that took place during the 1990 " s were conducted by international organizations such as the united states environment programme ( " ep " ) . unfortunately , the war on africa - in congo , rwanda , and burundi , liberia , sierre and ivory - has not yet been paid for by the attention they demand . what have we learned about the effects of the war on the environment ? the first of all effects depend on the type of war and the type of environment .
paris - whoever wins the parliamentary elections in sept , it is time to reconstruct the main franco-german initiative . regardless of economic conditions or their confidence - or their lack - in the future , the euro 's future is more responsible for the future than ever , if not the only one who survived . are there any alternatives to the leadership of the franco-german in the european union ? the fact that you 're going to join the three great british in a club would be a good idea , but it 's not the right question . britain has largely excluded any role in the european union 's leadership role .
when he returned to office this spring , he became a prime minister , a experienced and internationally famous team , including finance minister chidambaram , who successfully served as a finance minister in the mid-1990 " s , and dr montek singh ahluwalia , head of the planning commission , a key body assessing the medium-term public investment strategy . when the government lost its voice in the past , and the government came to office , it was feared that singh would be hampered by partners from the coalition of the left-wing coalition , who would demand that market reforms be abolished as a price for their participation in the new ruling coalition . the budget of chidambaram 2004 / 2005 is causing these fears to be stopped . the document is a great lesson in developing economics : it is clear how to combine a complete approach to market reforms , with a need to pay attention to poverty . in short , the budget is a model for all developing countries , and the budget is a model for the country 's economy .
these fears may have serious consequences , and they may not be able to cope with them . for example , the impact of the 2008 financial crisis on the ukrainian and russian economy may be the end of the recent war . according to the international fund for monetary money , the increase in the volume of ukraine and russia was significant in 2002-2007 : in the five years , the real value of the capita gdp increased 52 % in the area of the country 's territory and 46 % in russia . this is history : only 0.2 % of the growth in the area of capita gdp was achieved last year in the province of ukraine , and only 1.3 % in russia . the discontent of this disappointment may help explain the anger of the ukrainian separatists , the discontent of the russian , and the russian president 's decision to bring about the decision of the russian president to annex crimea and support the separatists .
what measures can guarantee the global competitiveness of eu of the eu eu eu eu ? how can we reduce the differences in the development and welfare of materials in europe ? fourth , the requirement of a common foreign and security policy must be addressed . the threats to the world today are supranational , so they must also be against them . but this is not possible without a clear european identity - and thus a common interest in the defense and defense of the euro .
barcelona - after world war i , when millions of european citizens were refugees , forced from home to hostile occupation or deportation , international regime was developed to coordinate effective responses and relieve the suffering of those who had been uprooted . a century later , there will be another crisis in the refugees , and this time it is europe 's power to provide a safe haven for desperate people . yet he did not come to an opportunity , and many of his responses did not match the urgency of the situation . in the first few months of 2015 , more than 38,000 people were trying to reach europe by crossing the river from north africa . about 1,800 people died in 2013 .
for example , sanctions have brought us to the table of non-violent negotiations , but sanctions have only been effective because of a broad coalition of international forces , which has ultimately been supported by the un security council , which has been isolated financially . we are punishing russia after the rebuttal of crimea in 2014 , and by introducing similar measures by the european union , russia 's biggest trading partner . without participation in the eu eu programme , sanctions would be much less effective for us . but while international coalitions provide us with credibility , they are weak and temporary . just a year after the deal with iran , it is difficult to imagine that china or russia would support further joint action against iran , even if the agreement began to fall apart .
the indian oil company , which runs in india , is producing oil from the songs ( ongc videsh ) , and over the next two years , the diplomatic mission will begin in mali , gabriel , niger and burkina faso . the indian ministry of africa was founded in 2003 , now three : west and central africa , east and south africa , west and north africa . the study of the association of indian chamber of commerce and industry identified five main sectors that can be used as " growth engines " in order to boost the development of the product : pharmaceuticals and health services , information technology , water management , food processing and education . nigeria is the biggest trading partner in africa , which is located in india . the bilateral trade turnover exceeds 3 billion , and oil is 96 % of the indian imports from nigeria .
former israeli foreign minister shlomo ben-ami recently outlined a new peace paradigm for negotiations between the islands and the palestine , in which the participation of actors such as the european union , russia and the key countries of the arab would facilitate the emergence of truly international solutions . this paradigm should be extended to negotiations on the civil war of the syrian government , with countries such as saudi arabia , iran , turkey and egypt , which are more important . of course , the involvement of regional powers could further complicate the muddy negotiations . the objective must therefore be clear and balanced , and the objective must be clear and balanced . only balanced negotiations can be achieved in the middle east , which will lead regional and global actors .
milan - the word " openness " has two related , but distinct connotations . it can mean that something is unrestricted , accessible and vulnerable , or that something like a person or institution is transparent , not a secret . the first meaning is often used for trade , investment and technology ( although most definitions do not match the vulnerability of the opportunity ) , which has always led to structural economic changes , especially in employment . structural changes can be beneficial at the same time , and they can be disruptive . and policymakers must have long reached a balance between the abstract principle of openness and concrete measures to limit the worst possible consequences of change .
when the feed faced this unfortunate reality , it was trying to support indirect and experimental growth . by injecting liquidity using multiple means , financial asset prices were significantly higher than the basic principles of the economy . fed by the hope that some segments of the population ( asset holders ) will feel richer and encourage them to invest more and more . but such " wealth effects " and " animal spirits " proved to be quite weak . so the feed was forced to do more of the same , which led to a series of unintended consequences and risks of collateral damage , which i was talking about in my book , the only game in town .
the unaddressed solution remains the cause of an abnormal activity in the brain . we 're following three intertwined ideas , and we 're looking for a way to go . the first is based on studies that suggest that schizophrenia patients are suffering from reduced brain connectivity . as a result , certain neurons , such as those responsible for the production and perceiving language , can function independently , without controlling or affecting other brain systems . it 's as if the orchestra 's string had suddenly decided to play its own music , and he did n't care about everyone else .
i 've seen a shrinking glass in antarctica and in the area of the glaciers . i 've seen the consequences of deforestation in the brazilian amazon and biodiversity loss . the danger of increasing sea levels could be caused by the existence of certain countries of caribbean , including parts of trinidad and liechtenstein . but bold , visionary leadership will need to close the deal with the successor to the protocol of the kyoto in copenenenenenenento this year . the agreement must be ambitious , effective and fair , and rich countries must be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions , while poor countries must support their poor countries in adapting to adverse climate change .
since 1990 , thousands of chinese officials have travelled to singapore to learn from their experience . although the singapore political system could not be easily transferred to a large country , such as china , it is a model that has helped shape china 's recent movement towards democracy . indeed , china , following the example of the singapore , developed a sophisticated and comprehensive system of choice and support for political leaders , which include decades of education and a series of tests for officials at different stages of their careers . these leaders , who have been selected in the meritocratically , have overseen the economic boom that has caused several hundred million people to be deprived of poverty . but there were problems such as corruption , inequality , degradation of the environment , corruption of the state , and the repression of political dissent , and the expression of religion .
today , it seems , there is nothing left of franco-american goodwill . the relationship between the two allies has reached one of the periods of tension that have been the cause of the end of the world war . the united states vetoed the election , advocated by the federal minister , general boutros boutros-ghali , claiming that he wanted to " extend the role " of the secretary-general in the reform of the world body . ( on both sides , it was paradoxical , if you remember , de gaulle wanted to reduce the power of a un he had called " something majig , " and that america owed over a billion dollars in the past because of the contributions of the united states . ) washington does not want to hear anything about meeting the euro as demand for a france , the command of the allied fleet in the mediterranean .
the free trade of cross-border markets reduces the differences in income between member states " revenues . for example , the report from the white house , which was found in 2015 , that a 10-point reduction in tariffs leads to a reduction in the wage gap between men and women , and that lower rates also reduce wage differences based on race and immigration . moreover , the increased openness of trade is associated with lower mortality rates in children and higher life expectancy , especially in developing countries . in time , free trade will allow workers to move to more efficient industries , which will lead to higher wages , increase investment in infrastructure and a more dynamic economy . the most powerful of all is the economic growth of free trade , meaning millions of people have been deprived of poverty .
but the benefits of hong kong are now at risk , largely because of their own insecurity . as several commentators have pointed out , the remarkable economic growth and development of mainland china has eroded the hong kong 's leading position as a financial , logistical and trade center . in 1997 , hong kong was in charge of half of china 's foreign trade , and its gdp was nearly one-fifth chinese . it has far exceeded the shanghai - the most successful city of china - in terms of gdp , according to capita income and shipping volume . today , hong kong accounts for only one eight of china 's trade .
the alternatives available to eu are either to keep the uk in the customs union or to keep uk in place by taking into account political commitment to the adoption of british interests . in the long term , it is preferable to have a second option in the long term . finally , the fact that we remain in the customs union for eu would allow us to reestablish a fixed border between uk and ireland after the break . although she agreed to avoid hard borders , she offered only vague suggestions of how it might be achieved . brexit is and will remain , a lose-loss proposal . - what do you say ?
the search for the essential features of the leader was dominated by the field of leadership studies until the end of 1940 , and today it is still common in the general debate . a tall handsome man enters the room , draws attention and " looks like a leader . " different studies show that tall people are often favored and that corporate ceos are higher than average . but some of the world 's most powerful leaders , such as the napolon , the stalin and the xiaoping deng , were barely more than five feet tall . the approach , which was focused on traits-focused , has not disappeared from studies of leadership , but has been expanded and flexible .
globalization , which can be defined as interdependence on intercontinental distances , is as old as human history . we are witnessing migration of nations and religions , trade along an ancient silk road that connects medieval europe and asia . but globalization is different today , because it is becoming increasingly dense and faster , and it is still growing . after the first transatlantic cable in 1868 , europe and america could communicate within minutes . in 1919 , economist john maynard keynes described the possibility of an englishman in london using telephone to order goods from around the world to be delivered to his house by the afternoon .
for example , the subsidy or pension fund could consider the basis for its decision to base its repayment on long-term , potential return adjusted by shock compared to the simple weighted average of the past or asset values of the end of the period ( normal practice ) . of course , you can claim that reform after the crisis will eventually solve the issue of regular systemic risks and return to a more comfortable world of relatively stationary risks without a constant imbalance . i 'm sure it 's going to happen , but i 'm not betting on it . historical evidence suggests that systemic risk is permanent and resistant to regulatory efforts to eliminate it . financial innovation will continue to be carried out in the context of the arbitrage of the legislation .
the technology will depend on the national power grid , which will use low-emission energy sources such as wind , solar , nuclear , or coal-fired devices that capture and store carbon dioxide . all of these technologies will require public funding , together with private investments , and the public will be able to make a difference . third , the recovery of the aid will be credible only if there is a strategy to restore government finances . george w. the idea of economic policy was to cut taxes three times , while spending on war . the result is a massive deficit of the budget , which will increase to the size of gargantuan in the next year ( about $ 1 trillion ) , and will be added to the added weight of the recession , bailouts of banks and short-term measures to boost financial resources .
according to the 2005 declaration of the principles of the opinion of the international election , a credible check is required to meet five criteria . the observers must first be independent - financially and otherwise - in their relationship with the host country . second , observers must be given unlimited access to all aspects and phases of the election and all relevant technologies . third , observers must not be subject to restrictions on meeting all authorities and political entities . fourth , observers must not be subject to any pressure or threat of retaliation from the government .
they should also be safe and they should be in a reasonable way comfortable . they should not only run in time , but at a reasonable time . the more important it is , the more they should be available to them . as the list of criteria is growing , it is clear that the most easily measured component , punctuality is one of many desirable features , and not necessarily the most important . this example is important for public services policy , which is dominated by debate in many countries , as it is the main problem of government budgets ( and their reduction is reduced ) .
we 've seen helicopters try to drop the air ; landing is not possible in most places . but people have told us that they often miss , and supplies are often found in a thousand feet or below in the deep forest . distribution is random and uncoordinated , it 's done with little thought , but it 's not working . we saw the rescue workers throwing packets of food and clothes out of the trucks and causing unrest . the weak watch is passively moving , and the weak are still trying to keep up .
for example , in the implementation of the manhattan project ( the production of atomic bombs during world war ii ) , and the first landing on the moon , the government set a remarkable technological goal , set up a timetable , and put together financial resources needed to achieve the necessary work . in both cases , scientists and engineers have been delivered in time , and they have been sent to work in the past . the example of atomic bombs may seem unpleasant , but it raises an important question : if governments and scientists cooperate in the war technology , should we at least save the planet from carbon pollution ? in fact , the " targeted technological change " process , in which bold objectives are set , are identified , and the deadlines are set , much more common than many of them are aware . the information technology revolution has brought us computers , smart phones , gps , and much more has been built on a series of maps of the industry and government .
but anti-american anti-american is simply irrational for russia , which is only a profit from the alliance with the political and economic leaders of the world . of course , good relations with the euro are a priority for russia , especially for economic relations , contacts for people and social relations . russia will also benefit from an active foreign policy engagement with the main members of the eu eu eu eu strategy . but the strategic alliance with the instead of foreign policy and security policy remains unrealistic and inefficient . europe will probably be weaker in this area than in the stronger direction .
and when new diseases such as zika - and revival of old enemies such as bubble plague - there is no doubt that much of humanity remains in the hands of biology . globalization has also increased the danger by facilitating the spread of communicable diseases . the flu epidemic , like 191818 , 1920 , which killed 50 million people , would be even more devastating today . in order to prevent such disastrous outcomes , we need a comprehensive approach to strengthening the supply of healthcare in countries with low and medium income . these countries need to help improve the supply of drugs and treat chronic diseases such as cancer and diabetes , which is a huge burden for their economy .
and if , in the case of wealth taxes , they would be imposed only in the future - and only if inequality had deteriorated - they would have prevented the perception that the rules had changed after the end of the game . the advantage of raising taxes is that they could not only be based on current income , but also on average income during the years , and they could also be able to deduct investments , thus sharing some properties with property taxes , without penalizing those who had saved more to accumulate more wealth . moreover , the long-term plan , which was adopted by one or several countries today , before there is a significant impact on real tax payments , could contribute to an international dialogue on appropriate future policy towards inequality . this would create a single tax response between countries , thereby reducing the ability of super-rich to avoid tax evasion by switching . the book of piketty makes invaluable benefits for understanding the dynamics of current inequality .
many years in prison , for daring to speak with china , and when i was older , i swore i would also speak . my first stint in chinese prison was tied to work , and i started printing and distributing books from the tibetan-language . i thought these texts were important reading about politics , culture and religion . but chinese authorities regarded them as a challenge to their rule , and they punished me accordingly . as the olympics approached in 2008 , i began to look for new ways to record the history of my people .
in recent weeks , there have been massive protests in the war . the poles are demonstrating against the legislation adopted by the ruling law and the party ( " pis " ) , which would reduce the retirement age of the highest court judge , effectively beating all judges over the age of 65 , and allowing the court to bring an order to bring an order to the court with its own tame justice . the constitution of polish provides an independent judge and establishes the term " first president " of the supreme court for six years . this means that the judges can not be removed from the legislation - at least not constitutionally . the new law allows for the polish of president andrew duda to replace the judges of the supreme court in 2018 alone .
in his radical days , ken , former mayor of london , was quivered that if he changed anything , he would cancel it . it turns out that in latin america , elections are really going to be a mess . the latest evidence : mauricio funes , a regular delivery of fmln - until recently , the marxist guerilla movement - has just prevailed in el salvador 's presidential election . this is remarkable in a country where , as long as anyone remembers , the hook or the crook ruled out an oligarchy reactionary . if the salvadoran left is in peace with the electoral victory - as has already been - it means latin america has come a long way .
the economist , friedrich , has put it in good shape in 1945 . " [ n ] there is no doubt a set of very important but unorganized knowledge that can not be called scientific knowledge of general rules : in this context , it is true that each individual has a certain advantage vis-à-vis all others , since he has unique information about which the use can be used , but that is possible only if he is left to him by the decision or if he is to cooperate actively . " the problem is that the promise of real " unique information " is a reality of vulnerability to deception . that is why the dissemination of knowledge into new businesses requires a regulatory framework that favors genuinely enlightened and honest .
maybe the only people who do n't suddenly fall into depression are those who are immersed in negotiations . with more than a thousand points to be agreed , all politicians have recently said they do n't see how meaningful a deal can be reached in the copenade . in fact , everyone is dressed for the scene of the " copenatism 2 , " and those involved in the negotiations call it " even more slog . " even if a communiqué is cobbled in december - and countries that have elections , such as the united kingdom , will be pushing for one - it is difficult to believe that they will contain enough detail or reflect the appropriate level of commitment to achieve such a desperate need . " copper 1 " has always failed , partly because - and that may seem strange at first - it 's all about climate change .
the same conclusion is coming for more people , and those who have been championing are one of the optimistic solutions to climate change , that the point of getting closer . in recent years , the sale of electric cars has increased significantly ; in 2016 , about 750,000 were registered - almost half in china . still , it is human nature to resist change , and many potential buyers are hesitant . that is why , over the next few years , consumption bias must be the highest priority . there are several changes to ensure that the use of ev and the sale of ev is continuing .
the focus on preferential agreements would be on the global trade system , rather than its integration . the gradual marginalization of the world war would also undermine its credibility if it fulfilled its key role as a commercial court . the success of the wto 's adjudication system is reflected in its widespread adoption . even if wto 's decision had serious negative effects on trading partners , they were generally accepted . this is a remarkable progress in global governance , and it is a major step ahead of it .
the energy market - and , above all , the gas market - and the market for tourist rentals - were liberalised , and the process of obtaining an investment licence was simplified . all of this was achieved in the face of fierce criticism of the opposition parties , especially those who had been responsible for the last 30 years , and thus were responsible for the destruction of the party . it is as if they do not understand how reforms can help restore the economy with deep structural problems . now that the greek government has delivered its contribution to the bailout agreement , it is time for its european partners and international counterparts to review the programme for the first time . this will allow the government to proceed at the second stage : to cope with rising unemployment and return the economy to growth .
the main problem is to overcome climate change , but the leading world force is still washing its hands . at the start of november , president donald trump announced that america had withdrawn from the climate agreement with the paris , and thus confirmed the decision he had announced in 2017 . the notification was announced immediately after the agreement was approved , and the withdrawal will take effect on the day after the presidential election . the united states will become the only country in the world that is not involved in the pact . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish .
for starters , it 's a real stretch of assessment of the state of corporate earnings . the business department shows that profits after tax on businesses ( technically , after tax breaks from current production , adjusted for inventory and depreciation distortions ) were 9.7 % of national revenue in the third quarter of 2016 . although this is a fall from the 11 % peak in 2012 - due to economic growth , which is usually a pressure on profit margins - it is difficult to find a problem with long-term income . the current share of the gross profit from the tax after 1980 is significantly above 7.6 % . the development of corporate taxes , which was only 3.5 % of the total national income in the third quarter of 2016 , is supported by a similar judgment .
the widespread prescription of drugs for troubled minds has always ended badly , until the days of opiates and cocaine , up to bromides , barbiturates and tranquilizers : everything has become a highly addictive drug , but only after years of denial have been admitted by doctors . now , anti-depressants - global brands with household names - are a problem . in the last decade , a triple increase in the number of prescriptions has been observed . in england , the medication of antidepressants is now bravely at the peak of 1979 . it is clear that today 's antidepressants are not the most surprising drugs they have been affected by .
of course , the best outcome is that vez will be able to move the economy into a less exposed external position , with a large ( at least 50 % ) depreciation . most economies of high unemployment have shown little feedback from the collapse of currency inflation . in venezuela , unemployment is 20 % , but it is also expected . of course , these measures will be unpopular in terms of labor , and the right to answer is to eliminate large taxes on wages , so that wages can increase without reducing competitiveness . in the budget , this is paid by a favorable impact on the devaluation of government oil revenues .
washington , c - millions of people in the world 's poorest people face serious challenges related to water - lack of access and lack of supply to supply - with serious implications for security , economic development and sustainability in the environment . as world leaders propose a development programme to succeed in the millennium development objectives , which will end in 2015 , these issues should be the highest priority . consider this : there are nearly a billion people around the world who do n't have access to safe drinking water . the cost is staggering : a thousand deaths per day , and annual economic losses estimated at 260 billion - more than double the total amount of public support for development . the deterioration in climate change will cause water to be more unpredictable , and water supplies will be increasingly frequent , and the drought and drought will be caused by significant costs for humans and economic operators , and the development of poor countries will be prevented .
but all public officials , not just police , must address urban problems . first , the mayor should be mobilised as a mediator , since he is in the first place in implementing urban policy . if these policies fail , citizens will be responsible for the mayor 's responsibility for the mayor . but the mayor is also the most knowledgeable about communication links in his community , and he is therefore the most capable of organizing effective partnerships to address local issues and address them . the events in the area of equality also point to the need for policy to be strengthened against discrimination and promoting social equality .
the only example of us is that it can prove that the world 's only employment is in full . the state of welfare is also at risk of a threat to the state of welfare . in america , the welfare period is now limited , and people who have n't worked for years have to do it . but unemployment in europe remains a " good " job , and it is not a good job . the replacement of income by unemployment ( after tax adjustment ) is 70 % , and the increase is higher .
zurich - in recent years , there have been calls for a revival of civilian nuclear power . it seems to me that the renaissance will never come , but it seems to me . of course , more than 200 countries use nuclear power . in july 2010 , the total number of 439 nuclear power plants , which had a net capacity of 373.038 gw ( e ) , was associated with various national electricity grids , approximately 1.2 gw ( e ) , which were more than in early 2006 . the electricity is now consumed by about 16 % of total energy needs ( up to 25 % of the most industrialised countries ) .
denver - the constitution of the united states , which was 225 years old , is a remarkable document : the provisions of the 18th century continue to guide the twenty-first century . we will be reminded of the implications of this in the next few weeks , as president barack obama fills his second term office . in many cases , it 's not going to be a good thing for the process . article ii of the constitution provides for presidential powers requiring " advice and consent " to the senate , including nominations of senior officials . no one , 225 years ago , had any idea that the number of officials who had been deemed to be a confirmation of the senate would eventually exceed 1,400 , or that the senate would be involved in a review process that often took years .
the main dimension of the current support over the ukraine is energy , and the same question of solidarity in europe is raised . as the recent bruegel study has shown , the entire instead of the entire event , with a bit of effort , would be released from russia 's imports of gas . however , it would require member states to consider the security of supply in the context of common concern , not as a matter of fact that each country must address it itself . for example , in response to the embargo on a particular country , other members of the eu group would draw their reserves , increase their production , pay more for imports or reduce consumption . but this sense of solidarity is lacking in the debate on energy policy in eu .
after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . it seems that the department of justice , under president donald trump , is continuing to tradition . no one is surprised that trump himself is deploying all the equipment he has available to prevent an investigation into the investigation into the presence of representatives of the house of representatives .
hypothetical , the shutdown of light for an hour would reduce emissions of carbon dioxide from all power plants around the world . but even if everyone in the world had cut all the lighting of the residential area , and this would have translated into a reduction of co2 , china would have stopped its emissions for less than four minutes . in fact , the earth 's hour will cause emissions to increase , and the number of people who have been on the planet will be reduced . as the national network operators of the united kingdom have found , the small reduction in energy consumption is not reflected in the energy supply system , and thus will not reduce emissions . in addition , during the earth 's hour , there will be a reduction in the amount of co2 emissions , but it will be offset by a surge in coal or gas stations , which will then restore electricity supplies .
the institute 's work seems to focus on the device that reads the activity of the brain . but it also seems to be overseeing all kinds of construction projects on a vast plot of land adjacent to the federal security service headquarters ( fsb ) - the successor organisation of the kgb and the federal protective service . if we continue to pursue scientific research , we will arrive at the prestigious russian science academy , which took place last week . after the election of the organization in 2013 , when candidates for membership in support of the kremlin did not do well , the government announced significant reforms , including three years of moratorium on the implementation of the elections . it was decided that the government would approve all candidates , even if they were academics .
so instead of providing context , depth and analysis , newspapers are firing their headlines that stimulate the spread of paper or anger . the result was disturbing , and it was a little bit of a distraction . the flight of opinions is the cheapest way to fill the broadcast hour , the ranting anchors are the best . this will strengthen the motivation to engage in a sensational speculation , though it is not a baseless one , as it has happened in sridevi 's case . more importantly , the rush to beat television by breaking stories has weakened journalists " incentives to carry out due diligence in terms of researching stories and verification of claims .
washington , dc -- an informed opinion is divided into a significant extent about how the global economy will be affected by the next 12 months . the focus on emerging markets is an emphasis on accelerating growth , and some forecasts suggest a 5 % increase in world output . others , concerned about the euro and the united states " problems , remain more pessimistic , with growth forecast of 4 % - and some even tend to see a possible " double dip " recession . this is an interesting debate , but it does n't miss the overall picture . in response to the 2007-2009 crisis , the governments of most industrialised countries have put in place the most generous bailouts of the world 's major financial institutions .
one confusing and often overlooked the fact that the election of nicolas sarkozy as a new president was a part of the election , and now it is prepared to give its political allies a powerful parliamentary mandate , a combination of private optimism and public pessimism . consider this : france has the highest fertility rate in the european union ( less than two children per woman ) , even before the booming ireland . of course , this rate is not enough to sustain the current population of the france , but is much stronger than the european neighbors , and it is almost the same as the population of the two of us . yet , despite this , europe 's barometer has repeatedly shown that the french are the most pessimistic of all europe 's citizens in the future of their country . how can people who are so negative about their common future when the nation is confident to build their private future in their families ?
the new york - a reception in the united states and in other advanced economies of the new capital of omas piketty in the twenty-first century - is indicative of growing concern about inequality . his book is further weighing on the already overwhelming amount of evidence of a rising share of income and wealth . moreover , the book piketty offers a different perspective on the 30 years that followed the great depression and world war ii , which , for this time , was a historical anomaly , perhaps due to the unusual social cohesion that cataclysmic events could have induced . in this period of rapid economic growth , prosperity was widely shared , and all groups were advancing , but at the bottom , they saw a larger percentage increase . the piketty also has a new light on " reforms " sold by ronald reagan and margaret thatcher in the 1980s , as an increase in growth , from which all will benefit .
this fall in the gdp , although the natural consequence of lower consumption products is often wrong , is often seen as something that can be avoided , since it seems to suggest that output is below its " potential . " in a fully flexible economy , the reduction in the measured rate of unemployment ( and the current increase in unemployment ) could be prevented if the resources used in the sale of goods imported from the consumer could be quickly used to produce exports . but business officials and car dealers can not easily be converted into specialist and highly skilled workers in modern manufacturing . for example , in the case of greenery and portugal tourism , some retailers could be consumed by unemployed retailers . but shops and showrooms can not be converted into tourist attractions , whose capacity will be limited to the time required to build new hotels , recreational facilities , etc .
but as fiscal policy tightened , cyclical economic conditions seemed to be demanding a easing , it is now being eased when conditions seem to be tightening . the difference in output in advanced economies has disappeared , inflation is rising , and the world 's economic growth is expected to be the strongest since 2010 . in 2013 , japan was the only developed economy that would release fiscal policy . but this year , it seems , the united kingdom is the only one who is ready to strengthen its policy - and assuming that recent political violations have not changed its fiscal orientation , which will be reflected in the chancellor 's autumn statement . most observers agree that public debt levels are uncomfortably high in many developed economies , so it is appropriate for policymakers to discuss strategies to reduce their debt .
and with high demand and a fixed housing supply - at least in the short term - prices increase . second , the 70-year period , which began with a broad spread of cars - during which one could reach nearly anywhere in the typical metropolitan area within half an hour or less - is over . before the car was widely owned , the land price was dependent on the location and proximity of the city or the local railway station . now , with a serious overload in the big cities , the land is rising again in housing prices . perhaps this increase in the gradient position could be delayed for decades if we were willing to move to a more dense residential pattern .
with austerity - that is , by reducing the deficit once the recession is over - the recovery may take longer , but once economic performance is more stable , as government accounts are in a sustainable position . john maynard keynes said famously : " we are all dead in the long run . " that may be true , but it 's been a long time . but it is not an excuse to dismiss the longer-term considerations of the commission . in fact , the eurozone seems to have arrived for a long time - and the economy is still alive and kicking .
a famous psychological experiment found that young children who could resist the immediate temptation to eat the swamp , and thus gain two marshmallows , were more likely to prosper than adults who could not . similarly , companies that reduce immediate consumption to save and invest in the future will benefit from higher incomes and higher pension entitlements . ( when american economists advise china to boost consumption and to reduce savings , they are merely interfering with the bad habits of american culture that save and invest too much in the future of america . ) second , the savings and flows of investments are global , and the flow of funds is at the end of the world . a country such as china , with a high saving rate exceeding the needs of local investments , can support investments in other parts of the world that save less , especially low-cost africa and asia .
but these " green energy " bikes represent a victory for empty gestures over substance and reason - which makes them sadly representative of cop21 . the agreement , which was reached in paris , promises that if we were to act from now on to 2030 , the global economy would cost at least $ 1 billion a year - and , where appropriate , twice as much as politicians would make inefficient policy decisions . this will make the most valuable agreement in the history of the united states . my research report , published in global policy , shows that the 2016-2030 carbon dioxide reduction will reduce temperature by 2100 by just 0.05 ° c. even if the promised emissions continued throughout the century , the agreement on paris would reduce global temperature growth by just 0.17 ° c.
china is particularly eager to improve and strengthen its military power and quickly . intervention by two american carriers in the taiwan straits in 1996 was humiliated by chinese , who had to stop intimidating taiwan 's missile tests . russia , since its gross domestic product has fallen 40 % since the end of communism , must retain its defense industry as a source of national revenue . despite the initial rejection of the kremlin , china purchased two modern destroyers this year , along with anti-ship missiles from russia . the russian government is losing control of unofficial black weapons flowing into china .
but the answer is not to the left , which is what comes next . china 's bashers is usually changing its tone after the presidential election , but it 's not going to be the best . but there is nothing typical of the pressure that is likely to continue to squeeze american families long after november 6 . obama and romney risk painting in a corner in china . that could take us all to the edge of the slippery slope , where we would have to go .
they are people who , in some ways , lack their citizenship , and they demand it , and who have redefined the policy order by obtaining it . today , we are trying to calm down the fear of violating our traditions , getting to the people who come to our country from other countries , and finding a way to restore political ethic at the core of human rights , equality , and democracy . if we succeed , we can create a sense that we belong together , even if we believe it may be different . but increasing individualism - focusing on the ambition and economic prosperity of one country - is a persistent obstacle to the implementation of this vision . indeed , the absolute lack of solidarity among so many people - a terrible obvious thing in our health-care debate - is now undermining the basis for modern democratic society .
but halappanavar and her husband were told that ireland was a catholic country ; the fetus was still in a heartbeat , so the procedure was not in place . halappanavar died of septicemia , which is certain that her family would not develop if the withdrawal was carried out . the protests in ireland have put prime minister enda kenny in place , and activists like those in india have argued that halappanavar has died because of the theocratic approach to healthcare . the activists of illegal abortions point out that the life of a fetus is not priority for the life of a mother in the country , but it is a priority for the health of a mother - a distinction that americans have long sought to replicate in the united states . the halappanavar case is thus reversing the western stereotype of eastern society as preserves superstition and religious extremism .
all countries " legitimization of narratives blend in with historical facts and myth . but historical legacies can gain excessive influence in some cases , and the overwhelming ability of leaders to make rational decisions . that explains why park is seeking closer ties with china , although south korea 's natural partner is democratic . one source of hope stems from abe 's victory in the recent general election , which gives him political capital to reach the park with a great deal of agreement : if japan is more likely to regret his militaristic past , south korea will agree to abandon historical complaints from official politics . the past can not be changed by japan and south korea , but it is not possible to change that .
munich - as americans have taken part in various rescue plans , stock markets are recovering . the ratio of s & p 500 is gradually increasing to a long-term average of 16 . in particular , bank shares are reflected in the rebate , and some banks have even managed to pay at least part of their own funds provided by the government . but as i recall , in my new book , kasino-kapitalismus , it may be a temporary improvement in expectations , rather than a sign of permanent recovery , since the losses on their balance sheets are likely to be huge . according to the latest estimates of the international monetary fund , the total write-offs of financial claims in this crisis will be $ 4.05 billion for the united states , japan , and the united kingdom , of which only $ 2.7 billion will be spent .
the model of morality may , perhaps , give bolivia the poorest hope , but it will only pave the way to frustrated hope - and there will be nothing new in the bolivia . thirty years after the national revolution in 1952 , bolivia 's income per capita remained essentially the same , and poverty was still more than 50 % . a model of development in bolivia , led by the state , is doomed to fail because it requires strong institutions , universal citizenship and legal standards . none of them can be found in the bolivia , which means that money will be redistributed by patrimonial and clientelistic means , which will be reduced by corruption and social pressures of all kinds . however , public investments will be wasted , as projects tend to provide cost-benefit analysis when funding comes from easy money , which is generously provided by the mother .
most french citizens are still deeply concerned about the threat of terrorism , not just from abroad , but from people who live in france , and often with french citizenship . in many other european countries , similar concerns about extremism are observed . in recent years , some of those who have been drawn to the extremism inspired by the islands have carried out attacks with basic tools , cars , and vans to knives in the kitchen . although violent extremists are ultra-minority in the muslim population , their actions have reinforced distrust in the french society . worse , a successful military campaign against the island raises new concerns about the return of extremists from syria .
although eight of the ten best countries , including several low-income countries , have taken considerable costs , despite the fact that education systems are difficult to ensure that refugees are taking part in schools together with nationals , most countries are excluded from national education systems , or are allocated to separate facilities . this disadvantage is reflected in the entrenches and prevents social integration from being socially integrated . the two landmark global associations on migration and refugees adopted by the member states of the member states last december , point out the way in which this challenge is addressed . achieving the necessary educational transformation will require much more funding than currently offered . the overall deficit of funding for education is about $ 40 billion .
international monetary funds are a major factor in the recent export boom and strong economic growth . the same path must be followed by rice , with large and often untapped markets . these issues must be addressed by africans themselves , but our international partners are playing an important role . the debate about the failure of international aid to create development , as well as the current financial crisis , has contributed to the fact that development assistance is not supported . but the argument is not about whether to provide support - no one can challenge the success of the aid , nor its importance , in order to provide a safe network for those who otherwise suffer .
london - when the united kingdom announced earlier this month that it had agreed to become a founding member of the investment bank of chinese infrastructure ( aiib ) , most of the main lines were not focused on the news , but on the friction of the decision between uk and the united states . the white house issued a statement urging the british government to " use its voice to enforce high standards . " and one senior official quoted us as accusing uk of " permanent accommodation of china , " which is not the best way to engage in increasing power . " in fact , we are the ones who defend the wrong approach to the proceedings . in the uk diplomatic spit , it was an opportunity for british press criticism of those who believe the government should take a stronger stance on china .
indeed , it is difficult to find a convincing analysis of today 's crisis , which has been left behind anti-capitalist slogans . the socialists blame greedy financiers , but who does n't blame them for their own . as far as corrective measures are concerned , the socialists do not offer anything more than a key solution that is now proposed by the right . since george w. bbush has shown a way to nationalize banks , huge public spending , bailouts of industry and budget deficits , the socialists have been abandoned without ever having a problem with their own . french president nicolas sarkozy is trying to revive growth by protecting the " national industry " and big investments in public infrastructure .
they also demand that the necessary changes in the eurozone 's economic governance be implemented faster , and that fiscal consolidation and reforms will be more stable and more hospitable . the long-term recession , which is interrupted by high or excessively high borrowing costs , is exacerbating the achievement of fiscal targets or reforms , if not impossible . the burden of adjustment can not be limited solely to deficit countries - unless it is a moral element of " punishment . " the main countries , which led to germany , do not trust the commitment of countries to implement reforms if they reduce their financial conditions . in addition , they oppose the fundamental changes in the eurozone 's economic governance .
moreover , the turkey does not care what its allies think , and what they think . for example , he raised his eyebrows recently in nato by buying russian batteries - 400 anti-aircraft batteries . this is not a good thing for any future peace process , but it is a good thing to do . after all , western countries will need to rebalance russia 's strategic agenda , which is far beyond the middle east . when historians look back at the syria conflict , they praise the former presidents of obama and donald 's trump for intransigence .
uk is simply smart when he supports his own interests by cooperating with china . one of the few positive consequences of the 2008 financial crisis was the increase in the global role of the g-20 , in principle a much more representative forum for international leadership than the g-7 . however , the downside of the g-20 is the emergence of the g-20 : the large number of participants can make it difficult to reach agreements and achieve things . a new g-7 must be created within the g-20 , thus providing china with a degree of influence reflecting its economic weight , and it is necessary to assume a corresponding share of global responsibility . the space at the table for china could be obtained if the eurozone countries , which signal their commitment to the common currency , agreed to give up their seats in exchange for a place representing the entire monetary union .
this leaves a range of options for the choice of the next president of the wbg group . we could choose an american who would like to call other countries : for example , kim has touted his korean origin during his 2012 campaign . he could choose a double national or immigrant , such as the former wbg president , james wolfensohn , australian , who became a citizen of us . or he could support a candidate from a non-american country that is not in the us . it is important that the nominee enjoys the trust of us and most other countries and can reconcile the different interests of the countries in the spirit of multilateralism .
as regards the shadowy influence of the market , china 's actions were particularly important . chinese president xi jinping has explicitly encouraged his country 's think tanks to " advance the chinese narrative . " and in many cases , the thinking tanks based on china-based tanks have become instruments for expanding the country 's sphere of influence . according to the european council 's report on foreign relations , china 's belt and road initiative , which is needed for complex coordination , created a perfect policy space for thinking tanks that " tell a good chinese story " to prosper . these networks include networks such as silk and individual thinking tanks , such as the charhar institute , which recently established a " national committee for relations between china and us . "
the world oil price exceeded $ 40 per barrel in the middle of the summer , and has since risen to the middle of 50 . today 's oil prices are only two-thirds of the real peak achieved in the 1979 revolution , and the future markets expect oil prices to fall back and settle for $ 45 per barrel . but the current high price of oil has led to a forecast that oil will begin to grow again . " there are higher oil prices , " says the american economic forecaster of allen sinai . " [ t ] the hat must subtract growth and cause inflation in the nucleus . "
cross-border data and information flows will also be limited , and there will be concerns about " splinternet " between us and china . and thanks to the increased control , chinese direct investments in america have fallen 80 % since 2017 . the new legislative proposals now threaten to prevent public pension funds from investing in chinese businesses , limiting the investment of chinese venture capital , and forcing some chinese businesses to completely get rid of the exchange of shares . we are also suspicious of chinese students and scientists who can steal technological knowledge or be directly involved in espionage . and china will increasingly seek to circumvent the international financial system controlled by us-controlled forces , and to protect itself from the dollar 's weapons .
we do n't seem to be paying debt right now , even if we do n't have a dollar sinking . the country 's fiscal resources are continuing to develop far-flung military misadventures , and the costs of which may be reflected in a series of billions of dollars , according to a recent study of linda accounts and joseph stiglitz . next year , we will almost certainly see a massive increase in the number of defaults of companies , even though many companies have reached a relatively strong balance sheet in the recession . the state and the city 's finances are even worse , and they are worse . with tax revenues falling as a result of declining prices and income , dozens of municipalities could go to claim their claims , as the city of new york did in the 1970 " s.
their total profit of 55 billion has exceeded the total national income of more than 100 countries . to put these astronomical numbers in the air , i tried to convince gabriel that , among the top nine earners in the united states , he had to earn at least $ 150 per second , including time spent and sleeping . that 's $ 9,000 per minute or $ 540,000 an hour , and you 're not paying . how much does america 's biggest earners make compared to the world 's poorest people ? if the top nine had paid their earnings , it would be about three months of income for the bottom of the billion .
instead , americans are seen as resting on the " pillar of inspiration " instead of " action pillar . " for example , the secretary of state john quincy adams famously declared independence in 1821 , according to which the united states " does not go abroad to find monsters that would destroy them . she is the wisher of all the people who are free and independent of all . he 's a champion and he 's just a vindicator of his own . " but the soft power of inspiration is not the only ethical tradition of american politics .
the court ruled that , against the rights of the combined state of animal rights , the people of the group of people who are responsible for the ethical treatment of animals should be posters , which , as a result of the slaughter , pose photographs of the victims of the holocaust with photographs of the animals in the holding of factories and slaughterhouses . posters are heading for animals , all of which are nazis , a series of jewish authors of the greek isaac bashevis . according to the court , germany 's laws on freedom of speech did not protect peter 's campaign , since " the fate of the holocaust seems banal and trivial " is an insult to human dignity . peta , of course , did not claim that the fate of the holocaust victims was banal or trivial . on the contrary , it was a holocaust - which we all agreed to be utterly frightening - to suggest , as the singer of the isaac bashevis has done , that there are parallel differences between the way the nazis are treated with ridicule and how we treat animals .
rather , they fight to protect their interests and livelihoods , whether they operate dairy farms or run government . since we are constantly trying to use new technologies to improve the wellbeing of humans and the environment , this distinction is essential . in order to avoid technological progress , it is necessary to understand and address its downside . for example , as machines are increasingly capable , robots replace a growing number of workers . it wo n't last long , and these robots will be able to carry out more complex tasks , but they will learn faster than workers can be trained .
today , porn is nearly € 20 billion . this represents a loss of more than 10 % of output for ece ( green ) . thus , the lack of export growth has led to a much longer and more severe recession than otherwise . if the greenback exports increased at the same rate as the export of pigs ( or spain ) , the recession would be over . moreover , the fact that export growth was not sufficient has made it difficult to make fiscal adjustments .
given that 80 % of the total export of mexico is being exported , the effects of mexico would be economically crippling and politically destabilizing , and the country would be less equipped to do anything about illegal immigration . unlike the usmca , which , at least , was based on the aim of dealing with trade issues , trump 's tariff pronunciamento was a bald-faced attempt to force the mexican government to solve the problem of immigration . in other words , the trade weapon was not used to address the issue of trade , nor was it part of the legal sanctions regime , such as the one imposed on russia on russia , following its illegal annexation in 2014 . in rare cases , trade sanctions were used for non-commercial reasons , as in apartheid , south africa , where they were successful , as well as multilateral support . once trade measures are applied without distinction to achieve non-trade objectives , the damage to the entire trading system is done - and it may be enormous .
the new delhi - according to the division of the population of the united states , the world 's population reached seven billion in october 31 . as always , when we approach such a milestone , this one has created a series of conferences , seminars and articles , including the usual dire bad predictions of malthusian . after all , the united nations estimates that the world 's population will rise by 9.3 billion by 2050 , and by the end of the century it will increase by 10 billion . however , these forecasts are misrepresented by the demographic dynamics that are the basis for them . the future we face is not one of many growth in the population , but too small .
in exchange , kremlin pledged to support - but only after the constitution was changed - the national government of the krakraine in controlling these regions and beyond the russian border . in theory , negotiations are held between the government in kiev and the leaders of the separatist region . the european union is applying pressure on all sides , including russia , where it is possible to withdraw economic sanctions as a reward for supporting kremlin in peace . russia offered to use its " limited influence " to convince the rebel governments to cooperate . however , if russia is in full control of the separatist region and is actively integrating them into the economy , as it suggests by bild , the kremlin can no longer be regarded as a foreign party , and it is seeking to influence an uncooperative ally .
nothing shows the decline of the united states in the region better than the difference between the sober use of us power in the first gulf war in 1991 , and hubris and deception of today 's iraq war . in 1991 , america created the most formidable international coalition , and led it to a fully legitimate war to restore the balance of the region after the invasion of kuwait in saddam hussein . in 2003 , america went to war without its transatlantic allies , after manipulating false claims . in that way , we have embarked on a absurd grand strategy that has also taken place at the same time to dismantle iraq 's tyrannical regime , restructure the entire middle east , destroy al-qaeda , and help democracy to root out the arab world . the result was complete failure : military defeat and a serious deterioration in the moral status of america .
one of the strangest claims made in discussions about social insurance is that the government 's pension programs financed by the government ( such as the social security system of america ) are excluded . these programs were good , the argument is that the industrial economy of the great crisis and the post-world war generation is obsolete , but today 's modern technology , modern , post-industrial economy has been obsolete . the proposed argument is based on a different model , and it is therefore a model . just as corporations are now much happier to support workers " pensions by contributing to private accounts of employees , governments should now provide private accounts ( or demand ) contributions . the value of these accounts would be changed by market change , rather than on the basis of a defined benefit scheme , which would guarantee a fixed amount of funds available to pension funds .
does anyone think that every country willingly will pass what has happened to her , only to get a free ride from her creditors ? if there is moral hazard , it is among creditors - especially private - who have been repeatedly excluded . if europe allowed these debts to be transferred from the private sector to the public sector - a well-established pattern in the last half-century - it is europe , not the greenback , which should have implications . indeed , the current flood of greece , including massive increases in debt , is largely the fault of the failed troika programs that have been supported by it . it is not a debt restructuring , but a " immoral " absence .
the scenario does not make much sense today , and it is not a scenario . europe and china are not particularly interested in depressing world prices for imports or resulting revenue . nor is the main issue of employment , nor is it a problem for the employment of workers . while some eurozone countries suffer from high unemployment , protectionism can not help these countries that expand financial policy or monetary policy ( the euro central bank ) . if europe , china and other trading partners were to respond to trump 's tariffs , they would simply reduce their profits from trade without reassessing the benefits of protectionism .
it seems to me that saving obama 's honor is hardly worth the risk . this is the view of many people in syria , even among the rebels . it is an opinion of most people in europe , and that is why they are not . it 's also the view of most people in the world that are in us . perhaps it is also an opinion of obama himself , and that is why he is playing for a while , desperately turning his approval of the attack on syria against us .
but we tend to keep our eyes on the same god we created in childhood . an old man with long beard is watching us , and most of us are still quite clear about the stories about his son 's testimony . it 's the god that the atheists like dawkins and the hitchens are attacking . and with such a goal , it is not difficult to poke holes and pile up on ridicule . let 's not forget that in the twentieth century you can even strengthen the case of god 's injustice - remember the atrocities of atheist totalitarians - and consider the attack on those who have committed themselves to interpreting religious texts , that they have denied science and reason .
their preferred model calls on the un to provide funds and other support for the mission while allowing au to maintain its leadership . but many western governments refuse to put their forces under au command because of their apparent weakness , and they have conditioned further support for peacekeeping operations in darfur , which is controlled by the united states . but it was difficult to attract enough volunteers for such a group , as foreign governments acceded to the demands of the sudanese , so that hybrid forces remained largely african . the complex chain of command , which was planned for au-un forces , also recalls the worst features of natural gas operations in the former yugoslavia in the 1990 " s. au commanders would maintain tactical control , joint au-un command would carry out operational supervision , and the un would set out the overall strategic objectives of the force .
the new york city - the european central bank president mario draghi 's statement , which was recently held by the council and the federal reserve chair janet yellen , showed considerable similarity : they both claimed their policy decisions would only take into account national conditions . in other words , emerging-market countries are themselves , even if they are exposed to significant spillover effects from monetary policies in advanced economies . this confirms what the emerging-country authorities have known for a long time . in 2010 - after the announcement of a third round of quantitative easing - the brazilian finance minister guido mando accused advanced countries of leading a global " currency war . " after all , advanced economies " policies have driven large and volatile capital flows into emerging markets , increasing their exchange rates , and damaging export competitiveness - a phenomenon that brazilian president dilma rousseff later called " capital tsunami . "
riyadh - saudi arabia has recently criticized the leading role of the war against houthi rebels in the yemen . some of the kingdom 's richest arab state to be killed by the poorest . others claimed that the fight against houthis - a religious religious movement led by zaidi - is only one of the elements of a broader war on shia , which , according to the statement , was likely to be a war . these are simplistic claims , which reflect a fundamental misunderstanding about the role of the kingdom in the emen - and , indeed , throughout the arab world . saudi arabia is not out there to get the zaidis out of here .
china has demonstrated its adept at assertively supporting national interests and playing a classic balance-of-power geopolitical game . but china must do more than pursue its own interests or to contain potential rivals . the most important thing is what porcelain is to represent in terms of values and ideas ? since china 's overly assertive policies have not answered the question , it has proven that the diplomatic basis for strengthening and expanding us security measures in asia has been a major problem . south korea has joined us with the military , and japan has withdrawn from the move to get us out of okinawa and india , vietnam , vietnam , indonesia , and philippines closer to us .
instead of borrowing for expensive students with a school set , they are required to buy poles using their 500 + benefits . and while women 's employment rates have declined , women have left a minimum wage , wages , especially business officials , have increased sharply . given the dramatic success of the programme , other countries are in the footsteps of the programme . lithuania introduced a less generous version of the 500 + family in 2018 . those who care about democracy in the country , hungary and elsewhere in europe , and others should also acknowledge that many voters buy the right of nationalists to the social state , which advance national priorities , care about poor people and support families .
i do n't know , but i think different people read it to mean different things . this can simplify the adoption of a resolution , but it is difficult to act . it is therefore no surprise that there is still no peace between the israelis and the palestinians , despite the countless diplomatic commitments of the united states , the european union , and its members , the united states and the parties themselves . to be honest , 242 can not be blamed for the state of affairs . peace is only when the conflict is ripe for resolution , which happens when the main protagonists are willing to compromise .
baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline , which will be bypassed by russia at the end of the process , can not redefine the country 's economic strategy in so far as it has sought . the long-term economic success of george will depend on the export of exports to the russian market : in the united states or italy , george or george are not needed . the emphasis on the btc pipeline also clearly reflects george 's pro-western strategic orientation . that 's also unlikely to change in saakashvili , which is why i 'm not going to change . on the contrary , it should be less difficult for bilateral relations , as russia itself is closer to nato , us and the european union .
but the lessons of the intervention of the libyan are that if there is a will , the division can be overcome . europe is not monolith , but it can act in many areas in a coherent manner , even without a complete agreement . whether the outlier is germany or another member of the eu eu group , the division does not need to be fatal . of course , none of this means that international intervention in libya will succeed ; the situation in libya is too complex to predict the outcome . but that means europe is finding a way to work in the area of foreign policy .
similarly , the hope of life in ssa 's countries was 16 years behind the average development of the country , 14 years behind the countries in south asia , 21 years behind countries in east asia , latin america and caribbean . in the case of combined gross enrollment in primary , secondary and higher education , the ssa countries were 19 % lower than the average for developing countries , 11 % below the southern asian countries , 29 % below the east asian countries , and 32 % below the pacific ocean and the bean caribbean . what accounts for this broad-based underdevelopment of the economy ? - what do you think ? until the end of the 18th century , most of africa was not explored and occupied by hunters and practitioners of the living agriculture . the land was relatively abundant and allocated to tribal chiefs , regardless of the rights of property in the west .
geneva - a recent sharp increase in food prices and growing concerns about food security have caused concern around the world . the possibility of putting food on the table fills parents with a deep sense of foreboding . and since the poorest people in the world spend much more on food , they are the worst of all , and they risk that , in the course of the years , poverty reduction will be reversed . the seemingly unchanging factors that create these records increase food prices - a shift to higher protein diets in many countries , an increase in the number of people , the use of biofuels , and climate change - suggest that there is a need for increased food prices . if there is no solution to mitigate the growing pressure on the supply of food , hunger and malnutrition will increase .
and this is what the anti-corruption agenda is often encouraging : creating organizations that are more obsessed with the new and more challenging processes than those of which they have achieved their objectives . harvey 's lant pritchett , michael woolcock and andrew argue that if incompetent organizations adopt " best practices " such as financial management systems and procurement rules , they are too distracted by decision-making protocols that do what they want . as francis fukuyama pointed out , the development of a capable state responsible and legally ruled is one of the most important achievements in human civilization . it includes creating a common sense of " us , " a imagined community whose name is the state 's actions . this is not easy when society is divided into ethnicity , religion and social status .
by 2014 he took over the presidential palace and surrounded himself by a guard who wanted to evoke the ottoman splendor , a fairly transparent effort to compensate for the fact that he could not shape regional development , according to his - let alone his country 's interests . this approach mirrors the russian president 's putin , using the luxurious ornaments and huge resources of his office , to claim credit for the return of his country 's national pride , especially when he tries to convince ordinary russians to sacrifice their lives . erdoan also placed himself as a protector of the dignity of turkeys and their sense of being a great force . but when the syrian conflict raged next door , erdoan 's claims are far from convincing . the turkey faces a refugee crisis that is dwarfed by the euro , a series of terrorist attacks on its territory , and an increase in tensions with the kremlin , which is being held by the russian plane near the border with syria in november .
president clinton 's trip to africa highlighted americans - mostly neglected to africa , except in deep crisis - dramatic changes underway on the continent . and at this year 's world economic forum , south africa , nearly 900 leading businessmen from the us , europe , asia and africa , met with new political leadership to map their way forward . of course , the intentions and results are two different things , and they do n't know each other . we have a long way to go , and we have a long way to go . it is most of the measures , several decades , if not even a century , for advanced economies in economic organizations and income levels .
over the last 100 years , the national competition ( with god on both sides ) nearly wiped out the euro , and the cold war could have done it . by the time you think you 're better off than red , you 're in trouble . dying to save your house , your family , or the country , is a rational thing . but martyrdom is different , and it 's dangerous to be a woman . " once a man loses his indifference , he becomes a potential murderer , and when he transforms his idea into god , the consequences will be incalculable . "
that in a nutshell was a soviet model that failed once , and failed again . if putin is seriously concerned about diversifying and strengthening the country 's economy , which will improve its lives , it must attract advanced technologies and foreign investments , especially from the west . he must continue democratic reforms , restoring institutions and restoring diplomatic relations with the west . russia can not create an alternative international system , but if putin continues to pursue outdated and hostile foreign policy , it could undermine the existing system . at times when the world faces so many destabilizing challenges , it wo n't be good for anyone .
will the union of labor revitalize the key to globalization 's wheels ? or will globalization be more sustainable by promoting greater equality and fairness ? in any case , unions are a major card for developing our economic system in 2008 and beyond . in many recent events , the growing influence of unions is evident : the german chancellor anela merkel 's controversial deal to increase the minimum wage for postal workers , several us presidential candidates , who are concerned about trade and immigration , and the chinese leadership is concerned about the labor standards . along with their political clout , the intellectual respect of unions is also a renaissance .
and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur . after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years .
yet ambitious plans to strengthen the capacity of hydropower production by dampening international rivers have brought water to the country in dispute with most neighbors , even north korea . in general , china 's passion for building dam-building china has created two key developments . first , chinese companies now dominate the global market for the export of hydroenergy equipment . sinohydro itself , when he eclipsed western equipment as a supply of abb , alstom , general electricity and siemens , claims to be in control of half the market . second , the growing clout of the hydropower industry in china has led the government to aggressively implement projects in the area of dam construction abroad , and other governments have offered low-interest loans .
in new york - for example , there are many repeated discussions in american foreign policy - isolationism against internationalism and multilateralism . but there is no more discussion between those who believe that the main aim of american foreign policy is to influence external behavior in other states , and those who believe it should be able to shape their nature . this debate between " realists " and " idealists " is intense and long-term . during the cold war , they argued that the united states should " withdraw " the soviet union , destroy the communist system and replace it with democratic capitalism . others thought it was too dangerous in a period defined by nuclear weapons , and we decided to keep it out of control and work to limit the reach of soviet power and influence .
if britain 's transitional payments continued to amount to a real amount of eur 10 billion for five or six years , they would be added to the same amount . second , the british budget offer would be a powerful instrument for creating a " deep and special partnership " with europe , which may be her main goal . until last month , you can avoid the definition of this sentence , the fear of alienating the hardline europhobes of her party . but in her rence speech , she could have promised british businesses something close to the current level of access to markets for eu . she also recognized that , in the case of a standard and standard approach to eu markets , budget contributions would be needed .
even if an exit agreement can be reached , it is not possible to negotiate and ratify a sectoral trade agreement within two years . for example , the eucanada comprehensive economic and trade agreement took seven years to end the negotiations - and the parliament almost brought a scotch of the region 's wallonia . there is no " gradual implementation " of a trade agreement that has not yet been completed , so that car companies , financial institutions and other businesses that export to instead should now prepare for a " cliff edge " that may be prevented . the electoral mandate may not be valid for the implementation of a hard brexit . many 52 % of the british people who voted for the holiday want to remain on the market , as well as those who have voted for it .
this is very important and healthy , and it is very important to have a good life . for the first time , there is a lively and intelligent debate about this issue , which is the basis for the problems of the middle east . open societies are not compatible with closed economies , but they do not agree with them . the functioning of the private sector , which creates appropriate jobs and schools that educate the large population of young people in the world connected to the current market , are assumptions for progress . for all obvious reasons , the issue of israeli-palestinian is crucial .
the electorate seemed tired of the constant confrontation between băsescu and ponta , and , more generally , the noise , ugly and treacherous burlesque , which was the political scene of their country . in many successful years , as mayor of sibiu , iohannis distinguished himself from charismatic and shrewd politicians , who are accustomed to romanians , and who have proven to be sober , laconic and pragmatic administrators . this behavior is part of what made it difficult to predict his victory over the more challenging ponta . but iohannis is different not just in political terms , but also in a largely orthodox country . during the campaign , there were strong religious attacks on him , pointing to the fact that the establishment was salient - although orthodox leaders , who supported the ponta , quickly adjusted their rhetoric to support tolerance and cooperation .
some of them can be learned or grown , and the courses that teach positive mental habits - such as appreciating things that matter or avoiding the dwelling on the setbacks - have shown measurable improvement in wellbeing . the dalai lama recently helped to set up a series of such courses in london , which were created by a happy action , an organization i found . the whole company can also try to improve its luck , but it is not a good thing . the british prime minister david cameron introduced a measure of happiness to national statistics , and recently launched a program to promote the wellbeing of citizens . the way countries are governed by this regulation has a huge impact on happiness .
the israel is only a small part of the overall structure of the system . recently , america 's rapid shift to russia 's cooperation with russia was developed in the aftermath of the civil war in syria , following the attack on chemical-weapons , which left at least 1,400 people dead . all of this raises a fundamental question : do we even need to build a plan for foreign policy ? if the outcome is to reduce the reliability and predictability of foreign policy - or worse - it is not likely to be misunderstood . the new world order has given way to a world without borders , in which reliability and predictability have enabled rapid shifts in focus and fickle .
financial services in 1986 ended the purely self-regulation regime . financial interests were against him at the moment , and they regarded him as a narrow end to a dangerous wedge , though they could not judge how strong the wedge would eventually be . it is also difficult to trace the origin of the credit explosion in 1980 , and the spread of exotic and poorly understood financial instruments that are the main cause of the 2007-2008 crisis . the most dangerous trends , including an increase in global imbalances and dramatic financial growth , have accelerated dangerously since 2004 . the one who said it was n't an enthusiast for credit , " i do n't believe in credit cards . "
unilateral military intervention would have a potential dire impact on the part of the military . unfortunately , given that president obama is in a bad way to deal with the crisis in syria , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu can only conclude that he has no choice but to go alone . the irish hardliners can welcome the israeli attack and even try to provoke it , as a means of attracting the irish population behind them . it is better to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons and other mass destruction in the region : a " zone without a weapon , " built on incentives that include economic and technical support for countries that join the security and security of the permanent members of the united states security council . the area should also be pursued by economic and political sanctions on states that choose to remain outside the country and , once again , support the permanent members of the security council , impose military penalties on those who seek to develop wmds .
cambridge - more than 130 000 people have died in the civil war in syria . the united nations report atrocities , internet images of attacks on civilians , and reports of the suffering of refugees renounce our hearts . but what do you have to do - and who will you do with it ? recently , michael ignatieff , a canadian politician , has urged us to ban the anti-air zone over syria , despite the fact that russia will almost certainly veto the resolution of the united states security council for the purpose of legalizing such a move . if the syrian president , bashar al-assad , can win , his forces will destroy the remaining rebels of the sun - at least for the time being , with the hatred inflamed , the blood will eventually flow again .
now , when a harsh regional situation is added to the harsh period of american elections ( if there is no issue from the political arena ) , it will be even more difficult to gather these components . it is too early to assess the historical effect of the arab spring , but if there is any conclusion that it is possible to draw today , it is that the island and its palestinian neighbors have nothing to do with it . for americans ( and others ) , who believe the arab world is thinking of nothing but the cause of the palestinian , events that occur in north africa , the arabian peninsula , and even the levant should have convinced them otherwise . in the coming months , we can expect that countries in the region will continue to focus on issues of governance and capacity building , human rights , and how to create economies that respond to the demands of citizens in the area of their resurgent life . the new arab leaders will be very much in the fight with the growing expectations of the public , and their willingness to stand for peace will be the last of the way to this struggle .
the london - the most vulnerable population is facing climate change - rising sea levels and extreme weather events , which have long been affected by serious drought and flooding . according to the world bank , climate change could bring poverty to more than 100 million people by 2030 . financial institutions should support small and medium-sized enterprises . in emerging economies , smes are more than 45 % of the employment rate and 33 % of the general budget - and these numbers are significantly higher if informal smes are included . when the sme is building its climate resilience , it can cause a cascade of influence in the community around it .
the reduction of methane is actually cheaper than the reduction of carbon emissions , but the reduction in methane is not enough . and as methane is much shorter than co2 , we can prevent the worst short-term warming . agricultural production is half of methane from anthropogenic origin , but also from waste water , landfills and coal mines . professor claire kemfert of the german institute for economic research ( diw ) claims that spending $ 14 billion to 30 billion would create benefits for reducing methane by 1.4 to 3 times higher . we could focus more on reducing black carbon , which is considered responsible for the current warming of the net and one-third of the arctic melting point .
he has never had to deal with others , unlike the traditional european powers that have been done for centuries . however , china 's challenge may be more difficult , and it is difficult to deal with it . not only does he have to live with the reality of our power , but he must also take into account america 's ideal . in 1989 , a large number of chinese students took over the tianmen to demand more rights and adopted a symbol similar to a statue of liberty . today , it is not america 's military force , which threatens china or challenges it , but is still attracted to the " american dream . "
but , in collective terms , member states - even without the united kingdom - would be a force of similar magnitude . thus , europe could strengthen its strategic sovereignty and create a reality for the world of g3 . the argument goes beyond the stronger and more uniform euro , and it could then compete with us and china in most areas - including " weapons " of its economic resources , in order to further develop its strategic objectives . yet europe 's leaders , encouraged by the prospect of a global g3 , must address two related concerns . first , it is unclear how the integration level will be achieved if the majority of the decisions taken in the bloc are still needed to unanimously .
after all , this is how the government handled canada and mexico . trump temporarily released these two countries from the tariffs , but now he expects concessions from them in the renegotiation of the north american trade agreement . while the difference between the european union and the european customs duty rate is less than the euro , the average is less than the euro , but the difference is less ( the average rate of duty 5.2 % compared to 3.5 % ) . both countries maintain relatively open economies , with greater protections in specific sectors . differences in legislation are much more important for us-european trade than tariffs .
do n't you think i 'm still " own " ? - do n't i have any " own " ? do n't i have the right to control my own body , do n't you think ? how can a commercial firm not only deny me the right to know my genetic profile if i do n't pay the price for diagnostic tests , which may be fair , but also to prevent a similar test from other companies if they do n't pay the licence ? the rights of the owner of commercial firms to the most basic element of the genetic identity of an individual should not be enforceable . we do n't have to believe in genetic determinism , so we can find out that this argument is compelling .
for that reason , the international secretariat of the global alliance against the operation of women 's traffic has applauded the international amnesty for supporting decriminalization . there were also opposition to some feminist organizations that accused amnesty of protecting " rights of pimps and johns . " instead , they argued that we should " end the demand for paid sex " - but they did not explain how it should be done . in species that reproduce sexually , sex is one of the strongest and most pervasive desires . in this respect , people are not an exception , but they are not an exception .
emerging markets , driven by demand and outsourcing from advanced economies , have gained a growing share of the high volume of goods in the market ; in 2014 , they have reached more than half of the world 's trade flows . but since the big recession , global trade has stagnated , especially as a result of the global economic downturn and the declining commodity price . but even more significant structural changes are also a major role , and they are also a major factor . many companies simplify and reduce the supply chain of supply to a minimum of 15 % . for many products , automation means that the place of production and outsourcing is no longer dependent primarily on the cost of labor .
however , there are strong support for bipartisan in the area of military bases in afghanistan , which is a means of developing strong forces , and the more charged confrontation between us and russia over the ukraine has greatly strengthened that support . the former secretary of state condoleezza rice specifically linked russia 's actions in the ukraine with " the withdrawal of the right to withdraw from the afghec.europa.eu , " whether the security situation is required or not . " according to the rice , the remaining 10,000 american troops will send a message that we are not serious about stabilization of afghaghaia - a message that would strengthen russia 's president 's russian president , vladimir putin . she does n't seem to recognize that america 's deteriorating ties with russia - the key conduit for military supplies to the afghorns - could undermine its base strategy . we are clearly convinced that the military presence in afghanistan is in its interest .
in the sign of what will come , the foreign minister of poland , witold waszczykowski , told the tabloid superekspres that instead of the top , he was pursuing " a policy of double standards and deceptions . " according to the judgment of waszczykowski , poland must not only " drastically reduce the level of confidence in the eu of its own , " but " must also begin to pursue negative policy , " " by blocking other initiatives or playing very aggressive games . " in fact , the polish of the prime minister beata szydło has already started this strategy , and he has refused to sign up on the official record of the summit , as if it were to lead to the conclusion of the poll . such infantile plans have become too characteristic of the government 's public administration , which has also refused to issue constitutional decisions , as if they are legally not binding . the government undoubtedly paralyzed the court , thus undermining the law of the poland .
this will require massive investments in new technologies and resources , not " combat for the end " over oil in the middle east . the important energy technologies include the conversion of coal into liquid fuels ( e.g. oil ) , tar sands and oil shale , and the development of non-fossil fuels . indeed , there is a great potential for low-cost solar power , for technology based on coal emissions , safe and reliable nuclear power . the sun is equal to 10 times the current energy consumption , and the current is a little different . we use this solar power in many basic ways - food production , wind power , hydroelectric power , solar heating , solar power , solar panels - but the possibility of significantly increasing the use of solar power , which is highly affordable , and which is environmentally friendly .
in the 1950 " s , asia created images of poverty and hunger . there was a brief political infatuation between some western men in 1960 , who had nehru jackets and maoist revolution . as john lennon sang in 1968 , " if you 're going to take pictures of president mao , you wo n't be able to do it with anyone . " asia 's resurgence began with japan 's economic success , and the outcome of the negotiations was not so high . by the end of the century , japan 's remarkable performance has not only been rich in japan , but has also strengthened the country 's soft power .
but , with austerity in the country of fire and eu , which would encourage spending , the council should also consider the form of the budget , which would ensure that the ff does not prevent future growth and investment . for example , the proposed budget will be reduced by funding for cross-border infrastructure projects , including the expansion of broadband networks in rural areas and the development of transport and energy infrastructure . but instead , it can be significantly valued by coordinating transnational infrastructure projects , thus achieving economies of scale and preventing duplication of national expenditure . europe would benefit directly from better access to the internet , lower energy costs and more efficient transport links . in order to set up the basis for future economic growth , the instead of supporting new , sustainable and innovative smes should be supported , without reducing the funding of important research programmes such as horizon 2020 .
in the wake of the earthquake , china 's criticism will be even more muted . in 1997 , the denmark , the state , which is demonstrably committed to human rights , asked the united states commission for human rights in geneva to look at the long criminal record of abuse . china responded by canceling the mission of a danish trade mission , which was carried out by the chinese government . the french have received the message and have soon stopped supporting the resolution of human rights directed at china . the french were rewarded with a series of lucrative contracts in china , and they were paid by the french .
the global agenda in this area determines the standards and standards that shape public and private bodies promoting health , prevention of disease and care . it includes research initiatives and global public goods , such as vaccines and programme preparations for the preparedness of epidemic outbreaks . and it brings people together to work together to provide general health coverage and ensure the right of everyone to health . in the framework of the same practice , gender and health issues are intertwined , as gender is the main driving force of health outcomes . gender can affect tobacco smoke , regular exercise or access to food .
still , the presence of a woman 's presence has an impact on her . for example , studies of judges and judges show that men 's judges are more willing to listen to bias when one woman is on the bench and that they are much more willing to do when the second woman is added . " everyone , " sandra said , " the first woman of the supreme court , who was known for not wanting to be regarded as a " woman " justice , " brings our work to our work , whatever it is , our lives and values . " in other words , women have a new view , and they can only be heard when they are exposed to a critical number of them in any institution . consider the women 's perspective on the conflict , but it is not a problem .
but choosing a higher good does n't absolve us of moral culpability . we have dirty hands when we help the terrorists or dictators , and we do n't know what 's going on . the philosopher michael walzer said it well : " it is easy to get dirty hands in politics . " but he immediately adds that this is how to get his hands dirty in this way , " often the right thing to do . " in the end , the consultant to the authoritarian leaders can not escape the problem .
but in 1991 , 800,000 yemenis were expelled because they were considered a threat to domestic security during the first gulf war . since then , the work of yemeni has been banned from the saudi arabia . young yemeni , who are unemployed and are often subject to other saudi policies , have gone awry - their spread to export the form of islam . with the new wahhabi madrasas , which is piling up in all the yemen , it is no surprise that the number of yemeni jihadis has grown exponentially . but even yemen are involved in their own destructive policies , and they are not capable of destroying them .
independently , the honjo and colleagues identified the protein , which had a similar function . these basic studies have now led to the development of new and strong immunotherapy , which are effective against cancer . we do n't know what we 're doing , but we still have a lot to learn . for some patients with some disease , immunotherapy was revolutionary , and people who were about to die were not detectable . but the immunotherapy revolution is still in the early stages of her childhood .
however , this approach was applied to macro levels and other economic problems , without having to examine themselves . the citizens of silicon valley must begin to use their skills in innovation - and their pride in " breaking things " - themselves . the only way to evolve is to adapt to the new environmental pressures , and now the silicon valley - largely because of its own behavior - is a lot of them . if it does n't change , it 's gon na be over , and it 's not going to happen . the good news is that if there 's any place to innovate , it 's silicone valley .
creating a structured and functioning goat market helps create a positive feedback loop . if farmers are confident they wo n't be stolen and sold at a decent price , they will be able to invest better in improving their production system . the innovation platform is also helping to get in the way of the new one . for starters , we have trained farmers to improve their soil by expanding the crop of legume , whose residues can be used as feed for goats . farmers immediately began to increase the density of crops , use manure and rotary crops , and increase the yields and feed of healthier goats .
in the early nineteenth century , wages stagnated for nearly 50 years before they recovered . that could have been a very extreme situation , and that 's why i 'm not going to be able to get into it . but for workers with lower qualifications , today 's transition could be as devastating as it is . with fear of increasing inequality , governments will have to rethink policies to provide support for the transition to employment and to move to displaced workers . in the future , politicians and businesses should be reminded of five imperatives in the future .
this is largely a matter of mindset , not a means of opinion , but a question of opinion . fortunately , the mindset is beginning to shift , and it is beginning to change . at the top of the austerity conference in kigali , african leaders recognized that , despite the au 's achievements , it remained insufficient resources and ineffective , which did not carry out many decisions . to revive au , they were tasked by the president of rwanda paul kagame , who led the process in which they were all deeply involved . less than three years later , a series of recommendations for reform , which have been submitted by kagame and the pan-african expert committee , which has been appointed by the consultative process , including african leaders and other stakeholders , are implemented .
both countries have a floating exchange rate , meaning that their central banks should not intervene in the exchange market by buying and selling reserves . why do we think of reserves differently than other assets in the balance sheet ? suppose ilan goldfajn , brazil 's star banker , will issue a bond in new york , and he will use the dollar to expand international reserves . at best , the market participants will applaud the decision , and in the worst case , they will be indifferent , as the net debt position of brazil will not change . suppose one of the private agricultural producers of argentina is now issuing international bonds and using them to expand one of its modern and highly competitive dairy plants to sell milk to asia .
for example , in india , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy that changes india to technology and will set up a stage for digital future . the government has invested in a large-scale national digital plan , which is expected to create 1.1 million jobs for the next 3-5 years , and will contribute 101 billion to the next 10 years . while other countries are pursuing strong digital strategies , we are losing their way . although we have led the internet in the 1990 " s , we are now the only major developed economy without clear digitization plans . the consequences are already beginning to manifest : according to the index of innovation in 2016 , the world 's eight most innovative countries have fallen since 2015 .
fortunately , some countries are introducing innovative measures to address this problem , and they are also taking part in the implementation of the measures . for example , in george , political parties , which include at least 30 % of all gender from the election lists , receive a 30 % increase in the budget . similarly , political parties lose 50 % of state funds in ireland , if their candidate group includes less than 30 % of women . in addition to financial restrictions , women face high social and cultural barriers to the participation of political people . in particular , higher care obligations , reinforced by public perceptions of the role of a " woman , " severely undermine the women 's ability to run public office .
ian is a society divided by people who want to be respected by the international community and for those who have better international status as an iran through nuclear weapons programs . international sanctions imposed on ian would seem to be helping them , not the first . it could be true if ian was a real democracy , and he was responsible for the will of people . but there is only a few evidence to suggest that sanctions have done anything to slow down the nuclear program of ian . moreover , as is often the case , sanctions may have done more to decimate the middle class , and they weaken the least powerful than the motivation of the leaders of ireland to find a deal .
i hope the agreement on the paris will change that , according to the commission . as with the revolution in information technology , clean energy will need to be involved in both the public and the private sector . since we do not yet know which innovation will be the most important in decarbonizing the economy , investments must be allocated to a range of options . long-term patient funding must also help companies to minimise uncertainty and bridge the so-called " valley of death " between basic research and commercialization . the bec 's argument - that " new models will be a public-private partnership between governments , research institutions and investors " - is a welcome focus on our relationship .
but these problems will not be addressed , and there will be no opportunity to do so , unless children have the necessary skills everywhere . for these reasons , my country , senegal , has long been committed to providing children - especially girls and girls from disadvantaged backgrounds - quality education . in 2017 , 25 % of our domestic budget was invested - which represents almost 7 % of the total number of people - in education for children and young people . in addition , we plan to provide up to 90 % of the funding for the new programme , which will improve the quality of the senegal education system by 2030 . yet senegal is struggling to cover all the costs of strengthening the education system .
the aim must be to strengthen the security integration of europe ( in its broadest sense ) and to lead europe to a leading position in global security . as member states proceed along this path , technological and operational excellence and innovation will be developed , they will find ways to eliminate unnecessary spending and optimize the use of resources . the european defense industry will not be able to make progress without a functioning market - open , transparent and equal opportunities for all european suppliers . progress in the defense industry is a major positive externalities , such as synergies between civil and military forces , and investments in research and development , which are essential for growth , innovation and future competitiveness . the european agency for the protection of europe is a critical element in coordination and proper functioning of the european security and defence policy .
china , for example , banned shark-fin soup , traditional delicacy , official government dinners and functions - a move that contributed to a 30 % decline in shark-fin sales from last december to april . in the southern city of guangzhou , the centre of china 's trade in sharp fins has fallen 82 % in the last two years . it should not be difficult to encourage countries to act in order to protect shark populations , since the economic value of the shark is met at the time of its death . the australian marine institute study found that the shark-diving industry of palau is much more valuable than its industry of shark-fishing . a shark on a cliff that often goes to palau for $ 179,000 a year , or $ 1.9 million a year , and the same shark will be worth $ 108 per year .
the excuse of the tudjman was that croak needed to concentrate his power on the fight with serbian aggression . the truth is , he used a negotiated enmity with slobodan milosevic to consolidate his personal rules and a country 's style of state ownership by his loyal supporters . to achieve this with minimal fuss , he added to the press and the electronic media . despite the enmity between the serbia and the croak , the dictator to dictator to milosevic was easy . because both tudjman and milosevic believe in ethnically homogeneous states , they have fomented forced forced people to move ( ie , ethnic cleansing ) and divide territory .
the current proposed arrangements would allow the chinese government to veto all candidates who do not like it , and would provoke criticism that the offer is an iranian-style election : " you can vote for everyone we choose . " the hong kong government could demand changes to increase openness and fairness , which the chief executive would choose , without giving up his current method of universal suffrage . according to the basic law , the election committee should be " normally representative " - a provision that violates the current composition of the committee . his membership is selected only by 7 % of the total election of the hong kong , and his voting procedures are intended to prevent candidates from being elected , who may be in a democratic position . since 1997 , 55-61 % of the electorate has been elected for democratic candidates in the election of the legislative council .
in promoting democracy , liberals reject the argument of today 's rulers that the first free election would be the last , as islamists would win and set up theocratic regimes . reformers insist that most people support moderate solutions , or at least radical islamist groups will have to be pragmatic , so that they can compete with power and rule . this case has not yet been proven , and it is not yet possible to prove it . the election of januza 's palestinian elections was won by a relatively moderate leader , as the ruling fatah movement and islamists supported the election . but in the wake of the local elections , radical islamists , using terrorism , won seven municipal councils .
the industry is increasingly implementing approaches that have achieved success in other sectors , such as reducing the cost of public procurement and implementing the principle of small production . as clean tech businesses are still expanding , there will be other opportunities to improve . the shakeout in the clean technology industry is difficult , but it is also typical of emerging technologies , and the weak players are exacerbating the industry . this is a global segment that is a growing global need for a new one . there 's no doubt that the clean technology industry can expect a lot of sunny days ahead .
princeton - the economic gloom that shrouded the world in 2008 has brought many people to ask if the apparent prosperity that preceded it was real . we know that china , india , russia and the united states have soared in different countries . the highest 1 % of the population has generally been successful , and the population has grown . but the gap between rich and poor people widened , and at least in us , poor and middle-class stagnated.ampnbsp 's income was reduced . it is no surprise that many of them are skeptical about the financial support schemes to pay banks , insurance companies and even automakers .
the main aim of these objectives is to enable businesses and organizations to set sustainability targets and key indicators of performance , to monitor , prepare and disclose comparative data to measure their economic and electronic performance , and to integrate sustainable production and consumption in business strategies and models . the global awareness of this issue is growing , and the issue is still growing . recently , mark carney , the governor of the new york city mayor and the ceo of bloomberg lp issued a report on the climate market . however , given the scope of the task , it is also important to ensure effective coordination and harmonisation of these efforts with relevant standardisation bodies , regulators and professional organisations . for example , we are already discussing these issues with securities and exchange commissions , as analysis of options to respond to investor needs and business needs in the area of electronic technology .
small landlords need new tools to increase productivity and create more sustainable production methods . the g-20 summit and the united nations " conference on sustainable development in janeiro are crucial opportunities to create a holistic international approach to global economic recovery and sustainable development . the efforts to achieve a successful and inclusive economy must be linked to efforts to tackle climate change and ensure universal food security . but the results that the world needs - viable financing options and frameworks for economic transformation , as well as integrated environmental management and sustainable governance - can not be achieved without political will . success in los cabos will depend on the ability of leaders to bring together the same level of collective and concerted action that enabled them to reduce the global recession after the 2008 financial crisis .
the biggest crisis has been in new york since the crisis in the 1930 " s . the major financial institutions have fallen apart , others have been bought for cheap , or they have survived only after large bailouts . global stock markets fell by 50 % , interest-rate spreads increased , there were serious liquidity and credit crisis , and many economies of emerging markets staggered to the international monetary fund . so what 's the future of 2009 , what do you think is going to happen ? is the worst thing that 's going on behind us , or is it before us ?
the good news is not news , the media 's leadership is often confused by the media . and it takes a minute to twitter or cable news to confirm the old saying : " if it 's bleeding , it 's going to lead . " this is a second psychological bias that neuroscientists discuss : because our species have developed to protect themselves from danger , we are more sensitive to bad news . we respond more closely to images of hungry children than reports of improving nutrition in africa . and of course we remember the horrible pictures much longer , and we do n't know what else .
china 's government seemed to appreciate the restrictions on cover-up and stonewalling , and perhaps the benefits of allowing a free speech . this desire for unbiased information highlights the dramatic change that china 's political environment has brought to the internet . the government is no longer monopolizing information and the right to process them . a lot more clicks are attracted by a bunch of insightful bloggers than official mouthfuls . the " virtual civil society " is in the making of a " virtual civil society . "
the new york - countries often provide public funds to promote exports of their products and services . but it is very rare to devote resources to supporting imports - as china is doing with its inaugural international import expo , which has just opened in shanghai . the annual import expo , which is part of china 's overall import promotion strategy , has drawn thousands of companies worldwide , promising large orders from chinese companies , including state-owned enterprises that have been entrusted with the government 's efforts to achieve the success of the expansion . if the expo is successful in increasing imports , it may be expected that china 's trade surplus will be reduced . but that does n't have to be the case , so it 's not going to be .
london - historian norman , who died in the jungle , has always insisted that foreign languages be learned by students in history . the language allows you to access the culture of people and to make a culture of history . his history tells us how he sees himself and the others , and how he does it . the knowledge of languages should therefore be a key element of historian 's technical equipment . it is a key point in understanding the past and future of international relations .
while this scenario is simple , the reality is not , but it is not . the first question is : will there really be elections next year ? the prime minister of iyad allawi assures the world that he will be there , and the president will hear his words . more neutral observers - and , indeed , daily news reports of the bombings and the hostage attack and the " rebel " - doubt the prospect . the chances of elections in iraq are that the upcoming january will be lower than 50 % , and we can be sure that they will not be free and fair for all countries .
atlanta - as the united states points out the first anniversary of president donald trump 's election , the question of how trump has won is still paying attention , and russia 's role is increasingly moving to the centre . every new discovery in the investigation into russia 's meddling in 2016 brings us to a more intense focus of democratic processes . last week , congress revealed the rules that would force the facebook , the google , and other social media giants to disclose who was buying advertising online , and thus to close a hole in which russia used during the election . but the amends of technical solutions and public promises to improve citizens " status will only solve the most publicized problem . the more difficult task is to strengthen institutions that are essential for the functioning of democracy - especially for civil education and journalism .
but if the goal is clear , politicians often do n't know what they 're going to do . in the presidential campaign , trade protection is becoming fashionable again , and it is not a good idea . however , while restrictions on imports may mitigate the pain of some regions in the production sector , they will not prevent businesses from relocating the growth opportunities . they will not protect workers from technological changes , and they will not be able to protect them . and they do n't want to recreate yesterday 's development patterns , and they do n't want to repeat it .
the move of military officers in tripoli against qaddafi and his sons could end the conflict , and the military commanders would gain credit - and political capital . but four decades of military dictatorship can be enough for libyan , and most of them have never benefited from the wealth or potential of their country . when it comes to the creation of terrorists and undocumented immigrants - two important issues for europe - the arab military dictators have a record of the intangibles . algeria in the 1990 " s is a powerful reminder , and the western government does not want to repress the cruel autocrats that cause violent theocrats and refugees to be rebooted . " stuck in transition " is a third possible scenario , while libya remains in a " grey zone " - not a fully-fledged democracy , not even a dictatorship , but " semi-free . "
but if they were involved in a case of muslim , they would have to be dealt with in the islamic court . when a muslim and a muslim face face in court , the muslim enjoyed a great deal of benefits . first , judges have prepared them for their training to give them no doubt about the other muslim . second , the court staff was completely muslim , meaning that testimony was only seen from a muslim perspective . third , while muslim could testify against anyone , christians and jews could only testify against another non-muslim .
some say the real point is the danger of an attack and destruction that could occur if the weapons were deployed . they use something like an analysis of costs and benefits based on a subjective sense of danger . but there is no objective assessment of the fear , and , even if possible , the use of an analysis of costs and benefits for the invasion of another country would be a problem with the global system of sovereignty and international law . the better way to make sense of self-defense is to invoke two principles that underpin the legal claim for reasons of national and international law . the first principle is reciprocity , which means that if israel had the right to attack the osirak reactor , iraq had the right to detonate an israeli nuclear device in the dimona .
most economies are less fair , and their differences are widening between rich and poor . and violent conflicts are still spreading , and the poorest regions in the world are the most vulnerable to the world . with these challenges , world leaders agreed last year at the rio + 20 summit to meet the objectives of sustainable development . the world 's governments have asked the general secretariat to coordinate the preparation of these objectives by 2015 , in order to ensure a seamless transition from the objectives of the millennium development , which will expire this year . for this purpose , a key meeting of the un general assembly will be held at the end of the septum .
today , starbucks employs roughly 182,000 people around the world - 50,000 more than a facebook book , google and apple combined . the argentine , the jordanian , the malaysian , or the aniard , who can visualize and create global demand for the product or service - as well as the amarrita of spain 's amarist - is as much of an entrepreneur as the next gates of the law . from the coast to the lagos , the city of mexico to mumbai , the government is looking at its own population as a pool of talent waiting for the tapped . it 's time for the diplomats to do the same , and they 're not going to do it . they should support and support job makers and solve problems and help in developing development .
although politicians often call themselves " rightist , " their real policies , such as former prime minister vladimir meciar , are demagogic populist or authoritarian . the political situation in each of the central european countries is also influenced by the experience of history and tradition . political developments in the czechoakia in the last 20 years of communism have led the czech republic and the czechoslovakia to be separated from poland and hungary . while the communist party , both in the field of polish and hungarian labor , was able to liberalize the country , which allowed relatively large parts of the activities outside the communist government , the czechoakia , after the soviet invasion in 1968 , became a rigid neo-stalinist regime . when communist regimes collapsed in 1989 , the communist party of the poland and hungary became a credible democratic-left party , which became a formidable opponent of the emerging political right .
the eu treaty specifically reserves this tax and transfer authority to the member states , reflecting the unwillingness of the europeans to transfer funds to other countries , as americans are willing to do among the people of different states . the third significant difference is that all states are required to balance their annual operational budgets . while funds for " rainy day " accumulation in boom years are used to offset temporary income shortages , states " general obligations " loans are limited to capital projects such as roads and schools . even the state , such as california , which many people see as a poster child for tax profligacy , has now had a budget deficit of just 1 % of its gross budget and a total debt of just 4 % of the gross amount . these restrictions on public budget deficits are logical to suggest that the state can not provide funds to fill the tax gaps .
i 'm sure i do n't feel safe as a professor of economics , but i 'm not going to let you know . i have no doubt that sometime in the end of this century , one of the professors will be able to buy a pocket - perhaps holographic image - as easily as he can buy a chess computer today . so let 's go back to india and china , and we 'll go back to china . globalization continued at a rapid pace in the last two decades , and in the last two decades , it was especially rapid . but the vast amount of evidence suggests that technological changes are much more important in world wage patterns than in trade .
specialization in each country allows people to get more of what they want , which includes , in particular , higher income , more air and water . when trade is reduced , it can benefit from environmental goods as much as other goods . is trade globalization better or worse ? some empirical studies of data from different countries have net beneficial effects on environmental degradation indicators such as the local pollution of sulphur dioxide . if countries have effective governance institutions at national level , trade and growth will provide them with a way of cleaning up their air .
tokyo - during the cold war , the term " kremlinology " was mentioned in an effort to understand what was happening at the top of the soviet union - indeed , behind the iron curtain . kremlinologists ( whatever possible ) were raised and who were among the main soviet leadership . it was important to sign an official document or stand on top of lenin 's tomb in the red square when he examined the military parade . all of this was grammar school stuff compared to the effort to decipher the regime in north korea , where the truth is much more opaque . consider what happened on december 17 , and you 'll see what happened on december 17 .
in a desperate desperate final effort , the imf is now making " spillover reports " for several systemically important economies to be carried out at the edge of the country ( article iv ) . this initiative is intended to fail - as well as the multilateral surveillance exercise of the imf or the g-20 peer review in recent times . even if they are clearly aware of massive spillovers , it is difficult to understand how this exercise would solve the fundamental problem of the currency war : the apparent reluctance of the main players to reconcile the vast differences between national interests . so what do latin america 's economies have to do with the help of the united states ? they must be entitled to defend themselves , whether they are using foreign exchange interventions , and the subsequent accumulation of reserves ( which may be profitable if capital flows are truly temporary ) , the imposition of capital controls , or other macro-prudential policies related to the current crisis , aimed at countercyclical exchange-rate adjustments .
if china had let the currency go , it would have depreciated in value and would have exacerbated the crisis . countries have been warned : to avoid trade deficits and build reserves because they are the key frontline defense . east asia 's countries have followed this advice and , for good reasons , they have seen the consequences of a lack of reserves . east asia 's governments knew that the imf 's policies would deepen their downturns , but they could not resist . the imf had the money they needed , and they did n't have to .
the welfare-to-work programs in michigan and wisconsin have served as a model of federal reform of social protection under president clinton , and obamacare is based on massacare care systems established under republican governor mitt romney . similarly , from 2000 to 2014 , a number of energy policies have been implemented - from extensive action plans to strengthen energy standards for renewable energy - 33 countries have reduced co2 emissions while expanding their economies . recently , some states have introduced cap-and-trade systems to put prices on carbon , and many of them are already in line to meet the objectives of obama 's clean energy plan . half of us have legalized marijuana in some form , eight fully legalised . three states have implemented legislation that offers paid leave for families , and a fourth of them have been on their way .
" i want to be part of it - new york , new york , " said frank sinatra of the city , who attracted so many of the world 's most ambitious people , artists and performers to bankers . in a way , it is not difficult to explain ; cities such as new york , with multi-cultural populations , multinationals , and a number of talented individuals , are full of opportunities . but the impact of cities is deeper than economic or cultural power , cities can fundamentally change the lives of humans - and even people themselves . in 2010 , a geoffrey west , along with a group of scientists , found that the number of socioeconomic measures - both positive and negative - increased by the size of the local population . in other words , the city is larger , the higher the average wage , the productivity , the number of patents per person , the rate of crime , the expansion of anxiety and the incidence of hiv .
( it is likely that the eventual winner of the offer will have to conclude a joint production agreement with india , which we would not have done . ) as if it were n't enough to decide against america , the clincher could be the indian government 's desire to avoid further controversy in the case of corruption . many people think that decisions made on technical reasons would be more easily defended than on political issues . against this , it is unambiguous advantages to welcome a new major ally and develop a pattern of bilateral military cooperation in supply , training and operations that have not yet been developed . at the time , when we purchase nuclear reactors - which allowed the historical agreement negotiated by the bush administration - we insist on the exemption from liability for suppliers in the event of an accident , some consider the indian 's refusal to refuse us as a gratuitous rejection of the opportunity to prove that friendship with india helps americans .
as a result , large international institutions are lobbying hard to access the euro area in the area of supervision and regulation of banking ( and , if the supervision and regulation fail , they implicitly seek fiscal bailouts ) . in the case of banks that need state rescue , the rules of competition in the euro require divestment and reduction . the european union 's leading position in competition is a royal bank of scotland , which , in 2009 , has been listed as the list of world 's largest international banks . even stronger banks are being forced to increase their own funds , but they are not in the market . in most cases , this means that credit will continue to be reduced , and the economic crisis will deteriorate .
north korea immediately did so , threatening to carry out an " attack " on the territory of guam . we shot back that we were " locked and loaded . " and , indeed , as this exchange of rhetorical fire unfolded , we were likely to prepare a revised military solution for the attack on north korea . north korea , according to the secret report , has achieved the ability to miniaturize nuclear warheads and have more than 60 bombs . the stakes are rising in kim 's game and trump 's chicken game is growing .
it is possible to draw two conclusions from all of this , and the conclusions will be drawn . first , we owe at least one of our achievements to others , given the public goods the company provides . this requires a more moderate and moderate determination of the highest wage , not moral reasons , but sustainability . the second conclusion is that the most privileged classes , which have benefited from the solidarity of others , in particular the poor , can not deny their contributions . but do n't keep your breath away from them , and you 'll wait for them to agree .
when sweden did , she swedes did n't say " no . " they understood that unemployment would increase if the central bank set up a monetary policy that focused on inflation without delay ( and that financial stability would not be sufficiently taken into account ) . the economy would suffer , as the eurozone 's economic model was based on the assumptions of the power of disadvantaged workers . and , of course , we see now that 16 years after the eurozone institution has institutionalized these relationships , the opposite of democracy is the opposite : many european leaders want to see the end of the prime minister 's leftist government of alexis tsipras . after all , it is extremely inappropriate to have a government that is so against the types of policies that have caused such a large increase in inequality in many developed countries , and it is therefore committed to curbing the unbridled wealth .
durham - this year , the islamist policy has faced huge failures in two major muslim countries : egypt and turkey . but it is too early to write off political islam as a capable participant - even a leading force - in a pluralist democracy . a year after the first elected president of the muslim brotherhood , the majority of the muslim brothers became egypt , millions of egyptians stepped out onto the street and started the coup that took him away . morsi 's political incompetence and lack of vision in the face of an economic collapse would be enough to weaken the support of the government . but his efforts to centralize the power of brothers and to put himself in the hands of the egypt judicial review proved to be his dissolution .
on may 19 , a group of korean scientists published in magazines on the results of research , which , for the first time , isolated human embryonic cells , specially adapted to the dna of male and female patients aged . the next day , british scientists at newcastle university announced that they had successfully produced a clone human embryo using donated eggs and genetic material from stem cells . both breakthroughs represent a stunning advance in research into stem cell cells , which is a great advantage . embryonic stem cells are pluripotent . this is a great promise for the suffering of spinal cord injuries and disease .
this includes the strengthening of the tradable-permit programme by reducing the threshold for which businesses must pay and eliminate the exemptions from the authorisation of businesses or industries . these measures would not only increase fiscal sustainability - additional revenue could amount to 2 % of the total amount of resources - but also to improve the efficiency of the overall allocation of resources . finally , china can reduce public spending by streamlining its vast administrative hierarchy . in recent decades , many of the world 's biggest companies have used new technologies to reduce the number of employees , from top workers to factory workers , and reduce costs and increase efficiency . china 's government , on the other hand , retained the same six-layer administrative structure - starting with the central government and moving across the provinces , counties , counties , cities , and villages - from the start of the republic of china 70 years ago .
indeed , the risk of a world without nuclear weapons - or only minimal - is huge . nuclear deterrence - a threat to killing hundreds of thousands of people - is a concept that does not fit into traditional morals . but it worked , preventing disastrous wars , and forcing people to be more civilized and more cautious . when one of the nuclear weapons bases was weakened , russia 's political decline in the 1990 " s , nato , the democratic and peaceful union , committed an attack against yugoslavia . now that russia has restored its ability , it would be unthinkable to do such a move .
but as soon as the tragedy began , scientists were more aware of the disease . the prions seem to be resisting all the wisdom of the normal , presure-cooking , irradiation , and even burning at 340 ° c for four hours - treatment that is usually used and reliably to deactivate all known viruses and bacteria . in addition , prions do not have their own genes , and they do not have their own genes . the prion gene is given to an infected person who lives in an innocent state . the infectious prion then hijacked the body 's machines and programmed it into a willing executioner of prion replication .
the performance of art advocates in the euro area points out that music managers of even major orchestras are expected to participate in the activities of the collection and are actively involved in the local community on behalf of the orchestras . the same thing is , they fear , they will be in europe , and they will be in europe . some conductors , who did not want to carry a tin cup , waved their batons , rejected important places in us for that reason , and they felt that their art would be compromised . daniel barenboim says he left chicago 's symphony orchestra partly because he objected to the demands of fundraising him . but we have experience that art leaders , such as music directors , must not be in the interest of making money wrong .
we should not dismiss this option , but consider others , not least because the security council , whose support will be politically , if not legally necessary , may not support the invasion . it would be strange to keep the authority of the council in order to fail to get its approval . the council is more likely to accept the possibility of launching a punitive air strike programme - much better than what was done in 1998 - on suspected sites of wmd , presidential compounds , republicans , and other target groups of military forces . this would hurt and weaken the saddam , and it would undoubtedly be a message that , contrary to the united nations , there would be serious penalties . the council could also declare any new aggression or use of wmd , threats or transfers of wmd , to bring out the removal of sam 's estate and his pursuit of international criminals such as slobodan milosevic .
soon after , the inspectors returned to tarmiya , where they were sent back to the ship . this time they knew exactly what they were doing : to produce nuclear materials . this time dr. ahmed , an iraqi counterpart , realized the game was going up . he knew some inspectors well , he had dinner with them on college terms during visits to vienna . that he was lying to them so bravely that his friends could not understand him .
but china 's dizzying rise has also eroded three main myths about economic growth . the first is that growth reduces inequality and is increasing the happiness of the population . in 1955 , economist simon kuznet hypothesized that income inequality would increase sharply , and then decline - in the form of inverted " u " or bell - as the countries undergoing economic development . given the pace of china 's economic growth since 1978 , its experience is weakening this claim more strongly than any other case . china is now one of the world 's most unequal countries .
thus , pakistan has taken another step toward the development of a political system based on law . democracy is , of course , more than a regular holding of free and fair elections . it must also mean that a strong legal standard should be developed , which will enable people to carry out enforceable property rights and to provide citizens with institutional means to resolve their dispute . in 2002 and 2007 , pakistan held free and fair elections and is preparing to hold another election in late 2012 or in early 2013 . if the supreme court had not removed gilani , he would be the first prime minister to complete his term .
on the contrary , the cuban government is still holding prisoners of conscience and criminalizing demands for dialogue across society . this year , the people of europe are announcing the twentieth anniversary of the fall of an iron curtain that once divided europe into two parts . twenty years after this event , an iron curtain remains around cuba , and this anniversary is still fading . of course , tourists who walk around cuban beaches do n't know about this iron curtain . but , regardless of this ignorance and economic interests , the instead should insist on the release of political prisoners and using all international institutions to push the cuban government into respect of the rights of the people and the civil rights of the cuban people .
the brigadier general kyaw hsan , a representative of the military , recently told the special ambassador ibrahim gambari that the gunmen on the streets were " false monks . " but we are real and thousands of us - rangoon , mandalay , pegu , arakan , magwe and sagaing - have been shown for peace . some say the insurgency in burma is over , and it 's over . that 's what junta wants , and he wants the world to think about it . but we believe that protests represent the beginning of a military government .
but plato is likely to be most impressed by the moral progress of the world . after all , he thought , as a philosopher , he meant responsibility for moral reformer . yet , though morality was always in his mind , many moral truths we now believe have never occurred to him . for example , though plato did not like enslavement of greeks , he - like all other ancient greyhounds - had enslaved the " barbarians " ( non-greeks ) . by contrast , today , even a very unphilosophical person - say , plato 's " media escort " - could easily explain why slavery is wrong : " a person is a man .
but at least it is important to address social differences at the local level , which have emerged as a result of the conflict , especially in the area of violence . in this context , local and international civil-society organizations , together with local and municipal governments , are important for the play , and the experience of colombia in the past should be useful . this effort must be supported by progress in the next area : rural development , which is the only economic issue addressed in the peace agreement . it is hardly surprising : the massive inequities , which characterize the country 's colombia , have caused the farce to rise , and the conflict has been concentrated in these areas . ( the removal of the activities related to the narco-trafficking , which is involved in the farc , may also be regarded as an economic issue , since it is necessary to provide alternative opportunities for rural areas , but in particular the issue of security . )
the world is leading the glattbrug , raising youth unemployment , especially in europe . roughly 5.5 million euro peans are unemployed in the 25 years of their lives . more than 7.5 million people aged 15-24 are " needed " - not employment , education or training . unemployment rates for young people exceed 25 % in 13 european countries , with approximately 30 % in italy , ireland , bulgaria , cysts , lattice , hungary and czechoslovak , and 55 % in greenback and in the stomach . in addition , more than 30 % of jobseekers were unemployed for more than 12 months , and their chances of finding employment remained low .
foreign producers are accused of " unfair " competition , which is much easier than domestic producers . if the standards of national trade law were applied internationally , most of the companies in the area of trade would be found guilty of dumping . the supreme court has set standards so high that american companies are found guilty of predation that few cases have successfully been prosecuted in the country . the trade negotiators do not even discuss the elimination of this double standard , but they do not . developing countries are worried that efforts to introduce competition within trade negotiations will only make life difficult .
for emerging economies , this would mean that dollarization would only be cured to catch even worse libraization . if that happens , libra will complex monetary and monetary policy and exchange rates in these countries , and it will help to set a period of slow growth and financial instability . facebook bet that libra will trigger the taurus market , and that 's why it 's not going to happen . but the benefits of libra are as slippery as pisses of piss on them . the libra project is dangerous as leo , and it will require government regulation to prevent cancer .
there is no reason to believe that inclusiveness is only affecting the sustainability of growth patterns in developing countries , although the specific dynamics depend on a number of factors . for example , increasing inequality is less likely to be politically and socially disruptive in a highly growth environment ( see a 5-7 % annual rate ) than in a low-growth environment , where income and opportunities for a lower population are stagnating or declining . the latter dynamic is now playing in the dance , and the protests of the " yellow vest " are underway last month . the immediate cause of protests was a new tax on fuel consumption , which was not a tax . the added cost was not so high ( about $ 0.30 per gallon ) , but the price of fuel in the euro was already among the highest in europe ( about $ 7 per gallon , including existing taxes ) .
divide people into conquering them is a immoral strategy that has been used throughout history . from alexander to the great stalemate of cruel and different tactics , the nations have been used to hold the throne of the emperor . we are now seeing this strategy again , as president vladimir putin stealthily seeks to restore the superiority of kremlin over the country , which was considered " lost " when the ussr collapsed in 1991 . but in such a violent play of ukraine 's recent election , putin clearly showed the world its neo-imperialist plans . after the euphoric mass protests in kyiv , russia 's president has said he can work with any government that ukraine 's people choose .
in any case , the active ingredient of the doctrine of trump is burden-sharing . this narrowly interprets the skinner , focusing on the need for allies in america to increase defense spending . he does n't even acknowledge that we are also forcing the rest of the world to share the burden of his unsustainable structural deficit . the financial deficit is consistently in place - total expenditure ( of which the defense was 14.8 % in 2017 ) , significantly exceeding its revenue - and the current account deficit . if these two deficits are at a rate of more than 3 % of the total annual budget , we will have to pay the rest of the world - currently 40 % of the gdp - in 24 years .
for example , consider how recent innovation is threatened by an industrial strategy aimed at export , which has supported many countries " development in recent decades . developing countries have used a large and low-cost workforce to increase their share of global production activities , create jobs , attract investment , and in some cases start a wider industrialization process . however , for businesses that took advantage of the opportunity to reduce the costs of the transfer of production to the developing world , there was always a trade discount : the production at sea meant that the ability to respond quickly to the change in demand for consumers . the technology can now offer a different option , but it is not possible to use it . by investing in " additive manufacturing , " robots and other non-human tools , businesses could move their manufacturing sites closer to the final market .
even women who watch the game at home have other problems . for example , a happy man , my former colleague , has a husband who is a diehard manchester fan . every season he breaks at least one piece of furniture when he loses his team . the couches are full of beer and they 're kicking when they cheer up their favourite teams . she changed the furniture at least twice since she got married .
in fact , did any monster not yet be regarded as a potential transport of revolutionary ideas ? the idea that a murderous monster can symbolize protester or outcast , and thus deserve sympathy , is the result of french philosophers , gilded and pierre-félix guattari . the difficult explanation of the origin of irrational violence and hatred against other ethnic or religious minorities , who were demonized and victimized , was extended by deleuze and guattari . that set the stage for a paradigmatic shift in understanding the murderous monsters as much as the other . these protagonists were increasingly focused on academic attention , cultural criticism and culture .
copene-discussions about global warming are accompanied by an increasing desire to stifle " impure " thinking , and thus questioning the value of democratic debate . but the closure of the debate means that the reason for the disappearance of public policy is simply a matter of fact . in march , he declared that al gore 's scientific adviser and major researcher on climate conditions , jim hansen , when he was involved in global warming , " democratic process is not working . " although science has shown that coal from fossil fuels is heating up the planet , politicians do n't want to follow his advice and stop building a power plant that is fired from coal . hansen claims : " the first thing people should do is use democratic processes .
according to the inter-parliamentary union , the election was pushed from 101st to 62nd place in the world , according to the proportion of women 's mps , before 121st-ranked japan . the increase in the number of women 's mps has not only resulted in an increase in the number of cabinet members , but also in various policies and institutional improvements aimed at women . and , although south korea has slipped into the most recent ipu markets by 80th , the fall reflects the subsequent growth of female lawmakers in other countries . the main reason for the increase in the number of women was the introduction of the quota system , according to which south korea 's political parties should ensure that 30 % of the candidates were women . the campaign law was revised to provide additional government funding to the parties complying with the quota and to reduce the amount of funds to those who did not .
for bingham , the law must be accessible and , where possible , comprehensible , clear and predictable . everyone should be governed by law , separated from the personal discretion of those who are entitled to the proceedings , and the legal disputes should be resolved without undue costs or disproportionate delays . equality should be ensured in the context of the law and adequate protection of fundamental rights . in addition , the state 's competence should be exercised in good faith and , for that purpose , it should be granted , independent courts and judicial review , in order to ensure that the government does not exceed the limits of its competence . the courts and other bodies of the official judicial authorities should be adequately treated .
it is an extreme right that most of the centrists have benefited from the failure of the centrists . in the end , the unknown real finn party capitalized on the opposition to bailouts in the eurozone to close the third of the general election in april . in the underworld , the geert wilders ' party will have enough power to control the king , and without his support , minority liberal governments will collapse . the national front , which ended the second presidential election in 2002 , was revived under the pen of the marine corps . the eurozone 's members are not even able to defend themselves against the eurozone 's members .
instead , the turkey pays in euro , while the seehofer pays an orbán by adopting a policy that no german politician should . the fourth factor is , of course , the interests of the german business . german companies make a lot of money in the so-called visegrád 4 - the czech republic , the hungary , the poland and the czechoslovakia - which together amount to the biggest german partner . but here 's where the hungarian tail wagged the dog of the german . the hungary itself is the world 's 14th-largest trade partner in terms of exports and imports .
brussels - a new dispute has emerged between the european union and several of its main trading partners , since eu decided to include all flights to the territory and from it , including flights across the continent , in the framework of the co2 system . the airline will have to obtain a permit to obtain emissions for the emissions of co2 flights . china and the united states are outraged by the fact that they have taken part in the negotiations . chinese airlines have postponed orders to purchase the euro plane of the european union . the european union 's leaders have called on the ceos of the airline manufacturer to step in .
when we were in government , we examined the risks of london as a financial center outside the euro , we concluded that there was no compelling reason to hurt us . but we have never doubted that being out of europe is a completely different matter . yes , special arrangements may be negotiated , but they must be negotiated separately . and , for the record , norway is a net contributor to the budget for eu - the price of the negotiations , even though it is not a member . i doubt other european countries would allow britain to act as a coastal hub on the eurozone , without europe 's obligations , but they would fully participate in their opportunities .
it also underlined the rapid pace of epidemiological transition to countries with high incomes , and the persistence of communicable , mother , newborns and nutrition disorders in sub-saharan africa . but the initiative could be more appropriate to inform policy discussions and encourage health measures if it could provide more detailed data . politicians are responsible for their constituents , especially their own needs . estimates of the local burden of disease will be essential for the fight against disease such as ebola , the control of the increased number of non-communicable diseases in the medium term , and the achievement of sustainable development objectives concerning the health of mothers and children in the subsaharan africa area . to help the decision-making makers better use their data , to create a geospatial map of the burden of disease with a breaking level of resolution .
according to the goldman study , countries such as greenery , portugal and spain will have to be 20-30 % cheaper , and the german price will increase by 20 % relative to the eurozone average . of course , if the germans were to leave the common currency , the return to competitiveness would be easier for the southern countries , as the euro would be undergoing devaluation , but the main problem of the crisis countries would remain in the eurozone . for example , spain would have to cut prices by 22-24 % relative to the eurozone average . from that point of view , the crisis countries will not be spared a painful increase in development if they remain in the monetary union , which includes the country 's competitiveness . the only way to avoid this would be to end the euro and destroy their new currencies .
one way to strengthen the capacity of india 's disaster-response would be to create a marine equivalent of our territorial army , training selected by the selected people in the search and rescue operations . such training , together with the affinity of students for fellow fishermen and their experience in choppy seas , would be a highly effective reserve unit to be used in the event of a disaster . another problem that risks are neglected by the focus on the immediate and immediate financial relief of coastal communities is the long-term economic needs of coastal communities . to be sure , immediate relief is essential : ockhi has completely shut down daily activities in some coastal areas , causing serious economic problems ( not emotional ) for the poor fishing community in the region . but it may be time to consider whether the fair punishment for these communities is to rely on fishing .
ramallah - united states should stop pushing for restoring peace in the palestinian-israeli region . this could be the best way to achieve peace - a paradox that reflects the huge gap between peace and real peace . do n't make a mistake : it 's not a call for weapons or an appeal for a violent insurgency . peace between the conflicting parties east of the river jordan and west can be achieved by negotiations . but if one side is more interested in the process than peace , something must be wrong .
the two wars in the world and the cold war have created europe 's integration as a peace project , the protection of the fundamental values of the west and the general economic prosperity . but the collapse of communism in 1989 and the possibility of overcoming the continent 's historical divisions required a new definition of the european project . the maastricht contracts ( 1992 ) and the amsterdam ( 1997 ) have created a new organisational structure for the eu site and established the foundations of political institutions that are equal to the economic power of the euro . the agreement of good ( 2000 ) was due to a somewhat inadequate compromise . the statement from the chancellor of anela merkel , whose country assumed that the euro union 's rotating presidency had been cancelled since 2007 , was not clear : the period of reflection approved by the european commission in 2005 was terminated .
whenever i arrive in moscow , i 'm impressed by new stores and buildings . but another key aspect of yeltsin 's era - its rolled-out debate - was silent . part of the explanation for this is an increase in official control , part of which is a reduction in public interest , and part of it is that russia 's problems are now simply less urgent . after the government seized influence on independent television stations , television and television , russian media became hugely boring . the latest fad is that officials sue the newspaper for bel and demand more than a million dollars .
true , the united states is not a sign of the word " denmark . " but it is not wrong to ask what scandalous economies have achieved so much success , and what americans can learn from them . the short answer is that scandalous countries provide their people with a decent salary to sustain a healthy and happy life . it is not necessary to economist to understand that the wealth of a country depends largely on the proportion of the population that productive work is performed in high-value jobs . according to the rankings of the country , the best seven countries have economies of social welfare around the world .
berkeley - i 'm now standing on my desk , reporter timothy noah 's new book , a great difference : america 's growing inequality crisis , and what we can do about it , milton , and the chief executive of the rose director of friedman 's free choice : a personal statement . i think , in my view , that the monks would find their task of justifying and defending small government libertarianism much harder than in 1979 . the monks then made three powerful facts claim that the world works - claiming that it seemed true or at least true , but now it seems to be quite false . their case of small government libertarianism largely rested on those claims , and now it has largely collapsed , as the world has turned out , and has not agreed to how it works . the first claim was that the government is causing macroeconomic distress , not an unstable private market , or that macroeconomic regulation is necessary to ensure economic stability .
the g-20 should now be based on this commitment and set a clear timetable for the end of the aid for fossil fuels , including transparency in relation to expenditure from 2017 , and the 2018 ban on research and production subsidies . secondly , the g-20 must undertake to combat tax evasion and to dismantle the murky tax havens and shell companies ( which were launched at the beginning of this year by panama documents ) , which were used to pump money from africa . according to the top board of african , illegal flows are lost every year by former south africa president , africa is losing more than $ 50 billion . 20 members should strengthen the requirements for the disclosure of taxes , prevent the creation of shell companies , strengthen efforts to combat money laundering and establish a public registers of companies " ownership . the g-20 and the oecd have already outlined measures to combat tax evasion methods such as erosion of base values and profits .
three nuclear power units of ukraine are currently working for the rest of their lives , and nine others are scheduled to end their intended life for another five years . the second unit in southern ukraine will reach this point within three weeks , meaning that the snriu must now decide whether to extend the 20-year extension of the unit . the snriu will make a critical decision without any key information about the risks associated with the health and environment of the reactor and its neighbors . although this contrasts with the responsibility of the ukraine , as a signatory to the convention on espoop , the implementation of an assessment of the impact of cross-border environments ( not to mention the possibility of considering the possibility of continuing the reactor operation ) , such an analysis should not be carried out . last month , the campaign groups in neighbouring countries wrote to their representatives in the ebrd and asked the bank to stop supporting the recovery of nuclear power plants in the country until cross-border evaluation is carried out .
curitiba , brazil , introduced a new model of food production in the city . and oslo has created a budget for climate change that will guide financial decisions . at a business level , more than 700 companies have reached a total of more than $ 16 trillion in the market , according to the business coalition . and 289 investors , who have nearly $ 30 billion in assets , signed a five-year initiative for the world 's biggest greenhouse gas producers to improve the governance of climate change , reduce emissions , and strengthen financial information related to climate change . this year , global bonds could reach 300 billion .
but this was not a recipe for restoring stability and growth , but a recipe for growth . east asia must provide justice for more than a breach of human rights . as the advocates of asian values have argued , it is necessary to strengthen all human rights , civil and political , as well as social and economic . if not , democracy and human rights will be fought against it . some of the donesians are already nostalgic for the new order of suharto .
by contrast , the virtuous chinese , who saved much of their income , were saved by western economists , for they did not understand that they were obliged to spend their time on humanity . the main theoretical point of transition to a debt-driven economy was a redefinition of uncertainty as a risk . this was the main achievement of mathematical economics , and the results of the analysis were not very effective . while the protection against uncertainty has traditionally been a moral issue , the security against risks is purely a technical issue . the main uncertainty in life - the goal of an immortal soul - is to bring one to morality .
since the house of first minister richard berlusconi has ruled out a coalition with either five star movements against the establishment or the former prime minister of the main party , berlusconi 's will depend on the senators ' willingness to support specific measures . but this approach is ineffective and unstable , and it is not possible to act in a different way . this is why the european union - and the european union - are heading for political and financial turmoil that followed the general election of ece , when such a failure to produce a parliamentary majority has forced another election to be held next month . the crisis in the eurozone - which threatens to cause a collapse and force cyclone out of the eurozone - could even make it difficult to manage the situation . it 's a lot of common with italy and greece , starting with an institutional malaise .
for example , in the 1980s , we concluded agreements with foreign cars , microchips , steel , wood and machine tools . some of the conditions imposed on the world trade organisation have been banned since then . but a couple of years ago , we were forced by the car industry to demand a trade agreement that would allow it to be a minimum share of exports to south korea . trump is likely to be dust from these instruments and develop them further . if trump wants to prevent production from being moved abroad and encouraged by foreign investments , we can soon see that companies are forced to agree to " voluntarily " to limit external restrictions and requirements for localization .
and we are much higher on capita emissions than in other countries . the paris do n't threaten us , but on the contrary , we have a global responsibility to get a house under control . according to the data from the institute for world resources , 26.6 % of global greenhouse gas emissions were accounted for between 1850 and 2013 . the us population is now only 4.4 % of the population in the world . in short , america is in a situation where per capita has always been more than the average in the world , and it owes the world 's justice , not the opposite .
and this volatility is another reason why the metaphor of casinos is applied : china 's stock market may rise or decrease by double digits , without causing a wider economic crash . china 's growth in the gdp ( in fact , the economy increased by nearly 10 % ) , when the stock market was lost by half of its value between 2001 and 2005 , or , in that regard , the market was then recovered ( only to significantly reduce after the 2008 financial crisis ) . since then , china 's stock market has been a global market - until the last year , when it has become the world 's best performance , it has increased by 150 % . and yet the coaster pattern continues : the 8.5 % increase occurred when the market opened again on monday , which followed the biggest two-day increase since 2008 . this increase preceded a loss of nearly one-third of the market value from the mid-june to the start of juggling .
the conversation was once again turned into a macron , and the conversation was over . i tried to explain that his trademark phrase , also known as the time of the même ( while ) , which is often heard here as a pragmatism of america 's style , may be one of the most obvious traces of his theory of the french philosopher paul ricur . far from thinking about the unclear choice , " at the same time , " it is a credo of a man who is in fear and trembling before the solvable and horrifying mystery of a double nature - physical and spiritual , mortal , and resurrected - the tortured body of christ . but soon we will be on the question of anti-semitism in america . on the one hand , it is to be found in a horde of indians , white supremacists and neo-confederates who descended on charles charles , virginia , in a gust of wind , to break some black and jewish heads .
santiago - now that populists are coming to power in the west , there is a conflict of intellectual ownership of their approach . writers like john judis claim that the nineteenth-century americans invented political populism with anti-elitist stance and inflammatory rhetoric . the nobility , who gave the world the status of juan domingo perón , or the brazilians who brought us getúlio vargas , could ask for a different opinion . there is still no doubt that latin americans are the longest and best practitioners in economic populism . in the twentieth century , perón and vargas , and alan garcía in perú ( at least during the first time ) , daniel orbited in nicaragua and salvador , and many others , who were involved in trade protectionism , managed to overcome large budget deficits , allowed inflation to rise , and eventually suffered a crisis in currency .
what is remarkable is that it has taken so long , and it has been a long time . " but it was recently confirmed by secretary of defense robert gates , who was especially shocked by the israelis . he expressed his understanding of the desire to acquire nuclear weapons , as the irish are surrounded by nuclear forces such as pakistan , india , russia , and the island . israel is bound to fight this emerging new american doctrine , which is equal to iran , or even with india and pakistan . political contexts matter , and the israelis will argue with it .
abidjan - on december 2 , côte d'ivoire 's independent electoral commission ( cei ) declared the opposition leader alassane ouattara to the winner of the new presidential election in the country with 54.1 % of the vote . the current , laurent gbagbo , gained 45.9 % of the total amount of the shares . the united states , the european union , the canada and the united states secretary-general congratulated the ouattara and called on gbagbo to respect the will of the people . one day , after the announcement of the outcome , the national council of the constitution , led by the close ally of gbagbo yao sódre , cancelled the results of seven departments in the north and declared the winner of the election with 51 % of the vote . the decision , which was reached within 24 hours , was left by many ivorians .
compared to last year , when the rush home for a new lunar celebration was interrupted by a strange storm , millions of migrant workers returned to their rural homes this year . many will remain there , as china has hit a global economic downturn and cost them their jobs . in 2009 , a number of very sensitive anniversaries could be more dramatic and unpredictable than in 2008 . the rapid approach is not just the anniversary of the year 's tibet , but also the 50th anniversary of the tibetan riots in 1959 , which led to exile of dalai lama and his supporters . since the riots last spring , china 's government has taken many pro-active measures , even taking a " slave liberation day , " to defend its record of the last 50 years , while continuing to talk to representatives of dalai lama .
in the context of the deficit , difficult decisions were made - from the recovery of the social system and the increase in the state pension age to control public pay . but i always thought the country could n't be richer by writing checks . we have to make a responsible decision to make sure we can live in our funds - and that 's what i 'm determined to do . the government , which lives in its own funds , is a prerequisite for the long-term safe of the economy - but it is not enough . success also requires bold steps to eliminate barriers to trade and to open the economy to investments in fast-growing countries such as china or india .
indeed , the recent boom in some parts of the developing world is just showing it . second , the technological frontier is a key element of industrial growth , but it is important for developing countries to change production and export structures , especially by changing resources to activities with higher productivity . the key to this is the ability to diversify domestic production by creating new activities , strengthening economic links within the country and creating new national technological capabilities . the essential prerequisite for the diversification of the sector and the modern services sector is the construction sector . on the contrary , the elimination of industrialization and the concentration of non-formal services is a proven recipe for failure , as has been demonstrated by the sad experience of most developing countries in recent decades .
today , few know where the term " globalization " comes from , according to the united states . the english dictionary of oxford provides the first reference to its current use of the 1972 academic article . the word was used before , but in a different way , it was a little different . it was a diplomatic term that would be consistent with the link between different policy areas ( e.g. negotiations on financial and security issues ) . the oed etymology ignores the non-english origin of that term , which can be found in the terminology of the european radicalism of the european continent .
without his determination , the iraqi military programs would not be exposed to a more thorough examination than any other possible expansion of the world . a credible threat to war is essential to achieve this extraordinary feat . but precisely because it is so extraordinary , it is difficult to understand how these threats are implemented by launching a war . if iraq had been exposed during the inspections and had cheated , it would be a confirmation of the effectiveness of the inspections , which would not be a reason for military retaliation . the best " serious " consequences , of which the security council warned iraq , if iraq failed to comply with its obligations , would be even more challenging to destroy its illegal weapons by continuing control of the country 's offensive military capabilities : inspectors , not invaders .
although their vision of " information security " could legitimize the censorship of authoritarian governments , and thus can not be accepted by democratic governments , it is possible to identify and identify and focus on illegal behaviour everywhere . limiting intrusions would be impossible , but it would be possible to begin with cyber crime and cyber terrorism . the main states would be interested in limiting damage by agreeing cooperation in forensic and control . of course , historical analogies are not perfect , and they do n't have much of a problem . cyber technology is clearly different from nuclear technology .
most of the debt is owed in the state system - for example , by state-owned enterprises - and the government could simply write bad debts and recapitalize banks , finance operations with either borrowed or printed money . otherwise , banks could always repay existing debts , and they would forever extend new loans to repay their debts . of course , that would be a waste of investment , of course , for the sake of the waste . indeed , if banks do not impose difficult budgetary constraints on financial non-sustainable businesses , and the planning system , which is not capable of imposing alternative discipline , china is already flooded with flat blocks in the second tier cities , which will never be occupied , and with huge excess capacity in the heavy industry . but as some chinese politicians respond to it , all growth processes include waste : the railway boom of the nineteenth-century century in britain and america has created a huge overcapacity and loss of investors , even though they have accelerated economic transformation .
moreover , the namibia government wisely understood that the rich natural resources could easily be cursed and enriched by several others . the authorities know that if the natural wealth of namibia is not invested in infrastructure and the productive capacities of its people , the exhaustion of resources will leave the country poorer and not richer . they also know that it is not appropriate to garner the names of the most common country 's resources , and consider investment laws and revisiting mining contracts to ensure that this is the case . transparency is crucial to this process , so it is important that the government is strong in supporting press freedom . as president george gingob has told us , the press often says things he does n't like .
it is not unimaginable that this kind of cooperation could be extended to other neighbors at the levant . the good news is that the newly elected president of cynese nicos anastasiades may be open to this agenda . of course , much depends on how much he fares politically in the current turmoil surrounding the bailout package . the party 's party , which was supported by the european dimokratikós sinayermós ( democratic gathering ) , gained 57 % of the vote on the platform , which , of course , emphasized economic recovery , and will be his priority . but a careful look at the current turbulence - and into the history of anastasiades - is a reason for optimism .
the commission 's leading position is yet to be a dynamic public face for europe . the inner culture of the commission and the bureaucracy is a constraint that no one in britain likes to talk about . it is not a structure that would be beneficial for political coups de theâtre , and most of the commission 's work is a constant crushing of regulations and regulations on eu . but the point is that when everyone asks , " what is europe doing ? " the commission 's response seemed inadequate . for reasons that are now unclear , there is a non-written rule that presidents of the board must be drawn from the ranks of the former or current prime ministers .
however , it is not clear that uk provides such a security , especially now that it is on its way out of the single market and customs union of eu . independence would allow scotland to develop policies that are more consistent with other successful economies - not least by maintaining membership in the eu area . scotland is facing a strategic challenge for brexit , but it will also have an opportunity to develop policies that will be better suited to it . britain decided to leave the place because he had a better opinion . but he will soon have to follow a small model of the country , such as the model of the country or the norway .
second , china , which is a major driving force of global demand ( both directly and indirectly , through important network effects ) , has an adverse impact on global revenue estimates . and since china 's excessive domestic credit growth and shadow banking system attract greater attention , many businesses are beginning to worry . third , while businesses recognize that innovation is a key comparative advantage in the current world economy , it is also humbled by its increasingly winning-winning nature . successful innovation is much less about financing today , and much more about finding a " killer application . " as a result , many companies , less convinced that " normal " innovation is a big payoff , will eventually invest less than before .
stockholm - it 's been a year since the turkey coup and the questions about the future of the country have not yet been confirmed . last year 's attempt to coup was nothing , if not dramatic , but dramatic . the mutated f-16 fighters bombed the parliament of the turks , and 249 people lost their lives . but the bastards did not detain the president , and they did not recep the tayyip erdoan , who mobilized his own supporters and sealed the fate of the coup . if the coup had not been completed within 48 hours , the turkey would probably have suffered a devastating and violent civil war , and its consequences would have spread beyond its borders .
oul - again , tension is rising over north korea 's missile program . unlike the previous " surprise " missile launches , north korea 's government announced in advance that it would launch a " satellite " sometime between april 4 and 8 . the question now is not whether the north korean regime will detonate its missile , but what will happen later . the united states , japan and south korea have already publicly condemned the launch as a " provocative act " and violated the un security council resolution 1718 , adopted in october 2006 , five days after the north korean nuclear test . but instead of rhetoric , it is necessary to assess the military implications of the missile launch .
and it has just taken the first round of presidential elections , which meet the high standards of freedom and fairness of the european union . the eu eu eu group deserves a credit for this result , and the outcome is not too high . it has been a decade since the start of the eastern partnership , which has established a more reliable framework for cooperation between the bloc and armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , george , moldova and ukraine . this initiative should be recalled , in part , the response of the russian invasion of george last summer when the kremlin tried to displace the country by recognizing the southern ossetia and the abkhazia as independent states . in that case , even russia 's closest allies would not agree to recognize the occupied territories or legitimize their invasion .
the policy of children 's actions is not enough , and it is no longer enough . without renewed vision of europe and effective access to crises , the new nationalists of the continent will continue to gain their strength and threaten the entire project of peaceful integration under the rule of law . the referendum on brexit points out the way for uk and eu as a whole . it will follow either a sigh of relief ( as i hope ) , or a disaster that will cause disaster to uk . but , however , the british will decide , it is necessary to address many of the european crisis .
chicago - now that the dust has been resolved by the choice of a director of international monetary funds , the imf may return to its main task of managing the crisis . christine lagarde , a skilled and highly valued technocrat , will have three important tasks . the first and easiest challenge is to restore the public image of the imf . while the criminal case against the dominique strauss-kahn , which is now highly uncertain about the allegations of sexual assault , the press is now focusing on the imf , suggesting that international bureaucracy is not controlled by unlimited costs , which are dominated by people with a sense of restraint . fortunately , the truth is more prosaic , and it 's not just about the truth .
however , an increase in monetary base is only temporary ; if bonds are reconsidered , they return to their original level . this need to reduce monetary base is an implicit claim for the assets of the central bank , and thus is rightly regarded as a liability for its balance sheet . but the central bank must never reverse the increase in monetary bases . since the holders of distributed funds do not have a claim for a central bank , it is not necessary to consider an increase in the amount of cash in the form of a liability , but as an increase in the net value of the central bank . in other words , money from helicopters is not an interest-free loan to government .
her party accused serena of organizing an attack , and her party , revenge , - a liberal front - supported the ciro omes . when sarney was out , lula was elected highest in polls and reached 43 % in the middle of the may . at the beginning of juggling , the omes soared to 28 % , and within a considerable distance of ula , which fell 33 % . the omes used the television time available to his three-party labor union in late japan to make a big impression , but most of all , they were more likely to increase the number of his second wife 's results , popular actress patricia , who had recovered from breast cancer . the bold summer market itters , during which the risk index of the country suddenly ended with nigeria 's and short-term credit for international trade , began to change the face of the election .
claremont , california - though the rapid increase in violence in hong kong is pretty scary , it may be much worse . the communiqué of the last closed fourth plenary session of the chinese communist party ( cpc ) suggests that president xi jinping intends to tighten his grip on the former british colony . he should be prepared to stand up to a terrible bill for the rest of us . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries .
these shortcomings partly reflect the persistent shortcomings in governance , despite important political reforms , in particular the constitutional changes that have changed the powers of the monarch to parliament , and the legal reforms , such as aligning legislation with the european union 's legislation and international standards for human rights , and progress in the area of family law and gender equality . moreover , regional tensions - including strengthening political instability in algeria and thorny issues in the western sahara - have impeded the integration of the maghreb , which is an absolute necessity for unblocking prosperity in north africa . and yet , despite the challenges faced , morocco has demonstrated a strong leadership in some of today 's most pressing issues . he has been a vocal supporter of counter-extremism initiatives , including responsible religious education , which is far beyond his borders . by 2030 , it became a leading leader of green energy , which had promised in 2015 to increase the share of renewable energy production by 52 % - one of the world 's most ambitious targets .
the use of europe 's bonds as a mechanism for removing large sovereign debt overhang threatens to eliminate moral hazard in the long term : it offers a solution to exactly 60 % of the default margin , where countries will have the biggest problem of resisting temptation . after all , there is no reason to believe that fiscal compact or proposed " debt brakes " will succeed if the maastricht criteria and the sgp fail . the rules need to be credible in the enforcement mechanism , which will be implemented . the lack of hope that the enforcement problem will be resolved by adopting a fiscal compact in the constituency of the member states could be based on misunderstandings of the system . of course , the federal government has never ruled out a state of 49 ( except for vermont ) , which has laws or constitutional provisions that limit deficit spending .
but since the agreement on aspects of intellectual property rights ( trips ) entered into force in 1995 , all member states of the world trade organization must recognize the pharmaceutical patents of the other . for indian drug makers , the generic version of patented drugs would require a license , and these licences would rarely be granted . however , as a result of the changes to the indian patents act , india has still had some safeguards to prevent the big pharmaceutical companies from being routinely involved in the european union . for example , india is losing more stringent definitions of what is an invention that prevents " evergreening " : the process of extending the patent 's life by removing secondary patents for the marginal improvement of the original drug . ( d ) the patent act " only to discover a new form ... property or ... use for known substances or only use of known processes " can be granted only if it does not " lead to a new product or employs at least one new reactant . "
foreign actors criticize the use of rainforest - europe 's governments to pope francis - are promoting biodiversity only to be used in the future . with a typical misogyny , he recently declared that " brazil is like a virgin , like any stranger 's wishes . " but bolsonaro does n't want to keep the amazon chaste ; he just wants to be among those who carry it . for example , promoting the development and attacks of rainforest on environmental regulations has led to an expansion of agri-business activities , especially cattle farming and illegal logging . according to the data from brazil 's national institute for research in space , the deforestation of brazil 's share of the amazon increased by 88 % annually in the jungle .
kim seems to be willing to expose north korean people to any knowledge of their power . of course , there are significant differences between the north korean and ireland , and the irish . the most obvious thing is that the irishus nuclear program has not taken off , while north korea - unlike ireland - has already taken off from the non-proliferation agreement - has already estimated 60 nuclear warheads , and is likely to advance to the nuclear missile , which has been hit by the nuclear missile , which has been hit by the mainland . in short : the military conflict with north korea would mean immediate global threat . trump may have realized that the growing pressure on north korea does not preclude him from negotiating with kim .
the third argument against the imposition of anti-manipulation provisions in the percentage of the percentage is that america 's ability to implement monetary stimulus would be compromised . but this is a thorough misunderstanding , and it is clear from the point of view of the issue . a well-designed currency chapter in the pp . conventional monetary policy is based on changes in short-term interest rates , including the purchase and sale of short-term government debt . there is no intervention in the foreign-exchange market - buying and selling foreign currency .
it is so funny to boast that the kind of knowledge of one person , whether it is an experimental physics , mathematics or cosmology , is useless . but the joke would not work if there was no other widely accepted assumption that scientific knowledge would have a value independent of any practical use . after all , it would be no fun if the charity , dedicated to the rescue of famine , celebrated its own ineffectiveness ; in that case , it would be worth it , because it would be the only reason for the charity to exist . so , even if the possible usefulness of governments is a reason why they devote so much money to scientific research , people expect more from science than that . science is also a different , higher goal : to understand the natural world .
the united states " position has not helped , in any event , the position of the united states . last year , president barack obama asked congress for $ 1.8 billion in emergency funding to prepare and respond to the threat of zippers . but abortion policy has intervened , as republicans have led a congressional hearing on the outbreak of zika , and funding has been conditional on anti-abortion policies in the beneficiary countries . the problems with access to the dominant position to contain zika viruses - that is , for example , that women are saddled with too much responsibility , and they do not give them too much power - they are not lost to everyone . last year , the united states refugee organization and the world health organization have underlined the need to give human rights to the center of response to the outbreak of zippers .
if they become consolidated democracies , as they hoped , entrepreneurs could stop worrying about official corruption . and loans to start the euro would be much easier to find a home fortune . this approach must be communicated to the citizens of europe and the citizens of tunia , egypt and other countries of ab . it would reverse the way europe relies on repressive regimes to supply oil and gas and protect its borders from immigrants . finally , demographic wealth of these countries will be used to meet their needs .
of course , what is now advantageous is a problem for the future : europe and japan will face serious problems when demographic pyramids are turned toward the elderly , and their temporary demographic benefits will be eliminated . but this is not what is now in their economies , and it is not . edmund phelps colombia 's university says these slow , slow-growing countries do not have a " dynamism " that defines the combination of business spirit and financial institutions . the spirit and necessary financial institutions must be present to allow for " creative destruction " - the strength that joseph schumpeter claimed for sixty years was the engine of capitalist prosperity - to be released . but is it an accurate description of how slowly countries are growing up , huh ?
in arthur 's first desperate president , he will succeed in the next few minutes . institutions are destroyed , property rights are questioned and there is a random and corrupt effort to redistribute . peru and venezuela are hardly better ; the brazil can soon follow the same direction . the popularity of lula ignacia da silk and his team , which is leading the polls in the election of the president , is a warning that the latin american public is willing to reject traditional governments . lula and his group are so far away from the mainstream of economic ideas and policies that capital has already begun to escape - even though the election is only a few months away .
in 2040 , the optimistic scenario of iea in sub-saharan africa will produce 14kwh per person per year , less than what is needed to maintain a single two-watt constant lighting . the iea also estimates that renewable energy will cost more than any other source of oil , gas , coal , or hydro , even if it is a carbon tax . few in the rich world would switch to renewable energy without significant subsidies , and no one would have interrupted their connection to the most important fossil fuel grid , which would provide stable energy for cloudy days and at night ( another subsidy ) . yet western activists believe that people in the world should be satisfied with the lack of and irregular supply of electricity . in the recent outlook for the production of africa , the iea estimates that the energy consumption of africa will increase by 80 % by 2040 , but the continent 's population will be almost doubled , and less energy will be available for each person .
in 2011 and early 2012 , there was a great deal of talk of the crash of china 's housing market and chain reaction of defaults in underground credit networks and the financial platforms of local government . in 2013 , the call changed to the danger of a resurgent housing bubble and the collapse of a shadow banking system that is mainly made up of rich companies and trust companies . according to market resources , the total assets managed by the shadow banking system have increased exponentially since 2009 , totalling 14 billion or one-third of the total amount of the gross profit per third quarter of 2012 . with relatively slow growth , the profitability of the company , on which the return of the shadow banking system 's assets is based , is low and declining . where will the high return of financial products provided by the shadow banking system come from ?
the european industry is suffering from similar problems , and it is also a problem for the european union . refining and petrochemical supplies much of fuel and is also a major source of tax revenues . the downstream sector , together with the distribution of fuels , contributes to a total of approximately 240 billion euros per year to treasury coffers . this is an important industry that should not be subject to excessive regulation . but while the industry faces the threat of inflated gas prices around the world , its concern for the home is the number of places and regulations on national energy .
the answer seems to be that its centrist chancellor anela merkel has pushed back against the ump . yet draining the poison from europe will require much more than just to catch us and pray for the departure of trump . some leaders of eu approach issues such as immigration threaten to create systemic problems that will last long after trump has returned to golf courses and bankruptcy courts . sensible leaders of europe can be forgiven for politely sending uk to focus their attention on threats to long-term cohesion and basic values . instead , it was always a community of values that protected minorities and welcomed poor and trampled .
the recognition of such a thoroughbred fallibility may seem to be paralyzed - and it is clear that the current political mood is reflected in this . but the recognition of fallibility may be an asset , as it implies an improvement in economic and political terms . if the world is too complex and unpredictable for both markets and governments to achieve social objectives , it is necessary to create new control systems and balances , so that political decisions can lead to economic incentives and vice versa . if the world is characterized by ambiguity and predictability , then it is necessary to reassess the economic theories of the pre-crisis period - rational expectations , effective markets and neutrality . moreover , politicians must reconsider the ideological structure built on market fundamentalist assumptions .
similarly , it would be difficult - but not impossible - to reduce the incentive that almost all tax regimes have created for the company 's leverage . governments must also work to reduce existing debt - and to reduce the global demand that it brings . it is simply not possible for the most developed governments to grow their debt . nor can austerity be enough , since such large fiscal adjustments would require countries - in the case of spain - to be able to withstand the citizens , as the greek population did . a more effective approach would be to use a wider range of instruments , including debt restructuring .
and others are more tangible , as if they were giving up personal data for access to services . third , fair wages and incentives are not good for businesses , but they are not good . there were many things to do with the extra bonuses paid by bankers in the financial crisis . but the silicon valley is not a hood of robin , and it is not . tech entrepreneurs may be able to tell investors that they want to change the world , but many of them are drunk by the idea that the world will be better off when they sell their business to the best bidder .
for europe , it is a necessary principle for the european union to be respected . moreover , he has never hesitated about the fundamental questions of legal and practical equality for women , nor did he express his dismay at the growing number of niqabs and hijabs that now appear on the streets of london - which prevents people from speaking to face . similarly , khan 's position in favor of gay marriage has brought him fatwa to apostasy from a terrible mosque in bradford . one might say that the head of the labor force , with a bright future in the country of churchill , could not expect anything less . but one must still go through it , and we must admit that khan has not provided the khan in these matters to the facile communitarianism , which is common on the other side of the channel .
in euro , regulatory changes such as the second payment service directive ( psd2 ) were crucial in the opening of the banking system , and regulators , such as the financial management of the united kingdom , for some time , have been running regulatory sandboxes for some time to facilitate the smooth functioning of new entrants , which helped them to meet the standards . dog 2 , which is often described as " open banking , " requires banks to provide their clients with information about payments and information services other than banks . aggregators can then provide an integrated overview of their finances and offer complementary services . perhaps the time to assess the risks of open banking financial stability was in consultation before the expiry of the directive . even now , the list of contributors to the work of the federal republic of germany shows that the european commission and key regulatory authorities in the euro and north america have not been involved .
some ideas are worse than bad : they are castrating , as they express themselves in a way that emphasizes secondary issues - say , the availability of raw materials - and blinds to more promising opportunities to lie elsewhere . consider the land of the land , the nordic country , where many trees are housed for their small population . the classical economist would argue that , given this , the country should export the wood that has been completed . by contrast , the traditional development economist would have argued that it should not export wood , but that it would add value to the conversion of wood into paper or furniture - something that is also done by the land . however , all wood-related products represent only 20 % of the total export of the land .
by 2050 we have to reach 50 grams per kilowatt hour , not 500 grams per kilowatt hour . we need to get to zero emissions , not more efficient gas burning vehicles , especially since the number of vehicles around the world could be easily doubled by mid-century . deep decarbonization does not require natural gas and fuel efficient vehicles , but for electric vehicles with zero carbon dioxide , charged with electricity . this more significant transformation , unlike today 's low-hanging fruit eyes of many politicians , offers the only way to secure climate conditions ( that is , to stay below the limit of 2c ) . by using coal to gas or more efficient gas vehicles , we risk putting ourselves in a high-carbon trap .
instead of becoming a representative of the change , they often prevent the change in the body . ( the big economic debate in south korea is now worrying about whether the ols are stifling innovation by preventing competitors from being able to compete with them . ) the productive transformation that developing countries need is much easier to achieve with support than obstructing their conglomerates . but ensuring such support requires policies that are not supported by ( or even pushed ) clusters of clusters in export sectors , which may be extended beyond the limits of the domestic market - industry in which competition will support the discipline that it lacks as a result of the dominant local market . to succeed , the glomerates need support for the government and the adoption of society .
working groups could be created to create a common narrative that would be the subject of a common description . the negotiations would also need to cover the current issues , including the d'horizon of the existing hot spots . what does ian do in yemen , lbanon , iraq and especially syria ? how does he define his interests in these countries , as he does , in the interests of the two countries ? does he see himself as many sunni abs claim , as a protector of abs ?
china will be the first country to be forced to pursue a " green " economy because of its sheer size and required growth . otherwise , china would quickly reach its " limits on growth , " with disastrous ecological consequences , and thus political consequences . since china will be the most important market in the future , it will be decisive not only to determine what we are producing and what we consume , but also to what extent . consider the transition from the traditional automobile to the transport of electricity to the state of the state of the state of the state . despite the european illusions , china will decide , not west .
first , the renewed purchase of bonds by the ecb must clearly express the intention of reducing the interest rates of sovereign interest to a sustainable level , which is at least 200 basis points lower than those of their average . a senior german diplomat , who recently rejected spain 's 6.5-7 % interest rates , as spain borrowed nearly the same interest in 1990 . but this statement , amazingly , ignored spain 's higher inflation before the euro - which confused real and nominal rates - and accelerated growth in the gdp . for countries that are following agreed reform programmes , the european ecb should undertake to reduce interest rates in accordance with inflation and growth rates and inform them how long ( say , nine months ) will continue . it is unlikely that the sport 's program , without such announced objectives , would be effective , and private investors would be able to demand even higher returns , as the growing share of debt would be considered a priority , thereby increasing their risk .
but this rule quickly succumbed to violent shocks in demand for money , although the general argument of friedman - that a credible commitment to inflation requires a preference for rules over discretion - remains very important . inflation targets were best known as a rule that central banks should set - and try to achieve - the target range for the annual change in consumer price index ( cpi ) . close cousins focused on price levels instead of inflation and focused on inflation ( cpi minus volatile food and energy prices ) . there were also signs of flexible inflation targeting , which was good enough to put a certain weight on real growth in the short term , if there was a clear long-term target for inflation in the public . but some felt that if the definition was too far away , it would lose its meaning .
businesses in advanced economies are now reducing jobs due to inadequate demand , leading to excess capacity and uncertainty about future demand . but reducing employment is weakening the demand for final employment , as it reduces labor revenues and increases inequality . since the cost of labor is a labor income and demand from another company , what is individually rational for one company is destroying the whole company . the result is that the free market does not produce enough final demand for the market . for example , reducing labor costs has significantly reduced the share of labor income in the gdp .
nor does import tariffs help those who have left the unemployed in bankruptcy of the video cameras , the border books , the company , the circuit town , the city without the money , or the virgin megastores . in the meantime , the number of jobs in amazon increased by 47 % over the past year to 34,000 people . but with great employment concentrated in california , texas and washington , the geographical point of these jobs is very different from those that replace it . as with geographical relocation of manufacturing jobs , taa is not a solution for such diseases . although the tab is aimed at individuals directly affected by foreign competition , much of the competition faced by local economies is not coming from abroad , and many jobs are not lost in the industry directly affected by competition , but in the surrounding economy .
yanukovych is accused of selling russian companies to russian corporations . president putin 's behaviour is probably best explained by his distaste for democracy . moreover , if the president of ukraine becomes an international pariah , he can only turn to russia , as well as president aleksandr lukashenko . but after this glorious russian failure , putin 's " managed democracy " seems anachronistic , and faces a threat to real democracy in a neighbour who is spreading to russia . for the first time , the ukrainians threw their little brother 's complex into the sea .
agricultural development can , of course , have serious economic consequences that must be carefully controlled . for example , as productivity gains driven by technology reduce the number of workers needed for businesses , strategies to boost employment in other parts of the value chain and manage migration to cities are becoming more important . in the context of africa 's rural population , which is already largely undermanned , there is no time to waste its use . fortunately , the large population of young people with more educated people , who are not particularly interested in the ongoing work of the livelihood , is well suited to the fact that higher value-added jobs are added to the agricultural sector and beyond . another potential decline in agricultural development is damage to the environment , including degradation of the land , soil nutrient extraction , excessive use of water and water pollution .
it 's almost certainly not going to happen , and it 's not going to happen . for many critics of the agreement , especially those in the area of environmental movement , these compromises made the lima a deal too " bottom-up . " countries have too much discretion to make their commitments , which are relatively unrestricted by the common rules of " top down " laid down in the agreement . such critics fear that this will make it difficult for countries to further reduce emissions , and it is clear that their collective efforts are insufficient , and that some countries can even use irregular accounting methods . but this overlooks the greatest achievements of the lima agreement : it ends the long-term division of the world into only two different countries , developed and developed .
the main reason she refuses to go alone is probably the main reason she is still leading the polls . but recent polls show that most voters do not trust the existing government and the ruling party . indeed , ahn cheol-soo , a successful entrepreneur , became a professor of pro-reform at the university of soul and the main backer of the new mayor , has now rocked south korean politics by giving a wide sense that he might become a candidate for the presidency . ahn has already become a lightning rod for all anti-park and anti-president lee myun-bak forces , and he is also attracted to young people . ahn 's most obvious merit is his personal past , which overcome serious challenges and modest behaviour .
we humans do n't just share a planet with other species , including plants , animals and microbes . can we determine the economic value of the protection of the natural world ? some people will be angry with the idea of putting a price tag on biodiversity and their protection is clearly necessary . but they would also agree that preventing human suffering and food , water and education is essential . the reality is that there is simply not enough resources to do everything in the world .
in many emerging markets and developing countries , there are still significant infrastructure gaps , especially energy and transport . and , in other regions , small pacific islands are more vulnerable to climate change . this shifting landscape requires bold action on several fronts , but it is not necessary to act . although the response will certainly need to be adapted to the specific circumstances of each country , some recommendations could be useful for most countries : · because inflation is still low in most regions , monetary policy should continue to support growth in case there is a risk of decline .
he wishes to remain the only country in asia with a permanent seat - a stance that would put him at risk with india . if the british countries are to act as a pressure group in international relations , they must agree on what they think is political and economic objectives available . for example , they are generally in frustration with the dollar 's position as a reserve in the world - but not in their proposed response . indeed , the most important bilateral relationship between the two countries is in the united states . the british concept , in particular , is the desire of its members to make a more plural order in the world .
and third , there was a deconstructionism from the post-nietzscheans . by keeping the " will to truth " ( michel foucault ) , the fact that the " truth " ( jacques derrida ) separates the sign from the reference ( louis althusser ) , and by making it clear in the miasma of maps and graphs ( claudges lévi-strauss ) , or by tying it to borromean knots ( jacques llacan ) , we are likely to lose contact with a simple , firm , and irrefutable truth . i then focused on the responsibility of the internet and the gafa ( google , apple , facebook , and amazing ) for the following events : first , a vast amount of speech is released from digital democracy , and the number of people who speak is almost infinite . the web will become a crowd , a free party , where everyone will be armed with their personal opinions , beliefs and truth .
solna , sweden - elite sports and doping have long been linked . but the damning report of the world 's anti-doping agency ( wada ) on the far-reaching doping program of russian countries sponsored by the state , which was released shortly before the summer olympic games in rio de janeiro , brought it to the forefront of public awareness . we should take this opportunity to double our efforts to end this deeply unhealthy practice - and save elite sports . to achieve an elite level in sports , it requires a lot of work , dedication and focus . few of them have succeeded , but they can benefit from a great personal and financial reward .
berlin - with the retaking of mosul in northern iraq , the islamic state could soon be the original . but the defeat of the isis and the demise of its self-proclaimed iraq caliphate will not bring peace to the middle east , nor will it end the syrian tragedy . rather , it is likely to open a new chapter in the bloody and chaotic history of the region - one of which is less dangerous than the previous chapters , as the end of world war i. the continuation of this violent pattern seems almost certain , as the region is unable to solve internal conflicts or create a framework that would be resistant to peace . instead , he remains trapped somewhere between the nineteenth and twentieth centuries of his life .
even faster responses are more effective if the main networks and systems - especially electricity grid - are resilient . why do we underestimate the resilience of key systems of our economy ? one argument is that redundancies appear to be waste at normal times , and cost-benefit calculations rule out higher investments . this seems to be wrong : many expert estimates suggest that the built-in redundancies will be paid if one does not show a false low probability of disruptive events . this leads to a more acceptable and second explanation , which is a psychological and behavioral nature .
meanwhile , developing countries are moving in the opposite direction , and they are moving in the opposite direction . in the octane , china 's chinese bank responded to the double threats of inflation and asset bubbles , and the first increase since 2007 increased by 25 basis points and 5 % . in the west , concerns about the impact of chinese growth have triggered a terrible sell-off in markets . before the meal was fed , the bank of china raised its reference interest rate by 25 basis points , 6.25 % , and china 's central bank now suggests that interest rates could increase . in the case of brazil , interest rates are close to 11 % .
larger businesses are more able to combine resources for research and development , which is the key factor for china 's aspirations to increase the ladder . the less fragmented industry is also better off in the lobby , the less fragmented industry is . traditionally , manufacturers of contracts in china are scattered and fiercely competitive in the area of china . they do n't have much to say about the national and international rules , if they say so . for example , producers in jiangsu were forced to adapt constantly to the fictional safety and environmental standards of the product in export markets .
the country would certainly be better off with a flexible exchange rate that would eliminate the possibility of speculators with one option and would act as a damnation of economic shocks . but literature on " exit strategies " - how to replace a peg with more flexible exchange rates - clearly states that china could pass smoothly . countries can easily end the rate of fixed values only if they trust the economy , and they encourage the belief that more flexible exchange rates can also be valued and weakened . this may have been true for china , but it 's not true today . this puts chinese politicians in the position of an irish tourist who asks for directions to blin and says , " sir , if i were you , i would n't start from here . "
the legislation was not intended to prohibit derivatives , but only to prevent implicit government guarantees , which would subsidize taxpayers ( do you remember the bailout of $ 180 billion ? ) , which is not natural or inevitable byproduct of lending . there are many ways to limit the excesses of large banks in the bank . a strong version of the so-called rule of so-called volcker ( designed to force banks insured by government to return to their main mission ) could work . but the government would be missing again if we let things go as they are . the provisions of the senate act on derivatives are a good litmus test : the obama administration and the food , which , in contrast to those restrictions , have clearly been placed on the side of large banks .
if the program is finished , it could trigger other support packages from the world bank and other international donors . if the aid is granted , it may begin to address some of the financial problems , but it is still necessary to develop a long-term strategy to stimulate sustainable growth . egypt 's economy is still facing risks as a result of capital escape , rising inflation , unemployment , and populist policies . even if external finance is available , egyptian leaders must seek ways to restore the country 's economy . unfortunately , the last political incident , which involved democracy-supporting activities in the us , has cooled bilateral relations and threatens military assistance of $ 1.3 billion each year from the united states .
the dining room ( now more inviting and more frequent with the arrival of free food ) or halls of gas and gas running on the plug and running , matters of proximity . being physically present means direct contact with other creative minds , which are not only of the right . and the benefits of human contact and interaction are why traders are still calling customers instead of using skype , and why meetup ( which supports the organizers of personal meetings ; i 'm on the board of the company ) is changing the way the twitter and facebook rarely does . of course , those who prefer to work at home do n't just pay and start with commuting , but also a lot of meetings - maybe too much culture - and a steady wave of communication that simply breaks their work , not to increase it . interestingly , i heard this point in the wpp stream of " unconference " in the container , where several hundred people flew thousands of miles to face the face of the face , which would face the idea and strengthen working relations .
and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur . after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years .
in these decisions , the quality of talent , infrastructure , energy costs and market speed is higher . in the near future , 3d printing could further reduce the need to carry goods at a long distance . if trade in global goods is indeed reaching a peak relative to global gdp , it will be difficult for poor countries in africa , latin america , and asia to develop by becoming the next workshops of the world . globalization itself is not in retreat , but it is a retreat , and it is not a retreat . since 2007 , global trade has fallen sharply , and cross-border financial flows have fallen , but the flow of digital information has increased :
as xi said in 2017 , china is committed to " growing the open world economy . " xi and his circle do n't seem to want to dismantle the global trade system . but globalization , with its chinese properties , will differ from globalization . china , compared to standard post-world war procedures , is based on bilateral and regional trade agreements , and less on multilateral negotiations . china signed a framework agreement in 2002 on comprehensive economic cooperation with the association of southeast states .
part of the problem is that decisions that hurt voters ( higher diesel prices , lower subsidised cylinders of cooking-gas ) have an immediate impact , while foreign investments , for example , take years to show up . all politicians in democracies think about it in the short term ; few have time horizons that extend beyond the next election . with his 20-year success record for the public , singh has a better case than most voters can trust when he says he is in long-term interest . in congress , the pressure will be on the same initiatives as economic-reform initiatives with " pro-poor " programs . congress can rightly take credit for the most extensive implementation of this programme , the national guarantee scheme for rural employment , which guarantees one member of all poor rural families 100 days a year of paid employment .
the immediate interest of banks is to adapt to the new capital requirements and restore balance sheet to financial health , meaning that the money will be used to achieve the most effective cost . for example , if they continue to finance the private sector , they will ensure that credit is paid to customers who are entitled to credit . this means that , as well as credit provided by italian and spanish banks over the last few months , most of the new cash will be provided locally for safe households and large companies . this will allow banks " markets to continue to work , but it is unlikely that europe 's economy will need to be stimulated . the alternative is to encourage sarkozy and banque de france : to buy banks of europe from government bonds .
but symbolic measures are not enough to make real progress . turkey 's government must demonstrate its commitment to effectively protect human rights from all citizens . in doing so , it would improve its position in europe and beyond . turkey plays an important role in its region and in the world - which is undermined by the continuing denial of genocide armenian genocide . the disingenuous approach to genocide is contrary to the efforts of an honest and reliable partner to cultivate a reputation .
for this reason , it is necessary to support the di separately from domestic investments and exports . foreign investors do not want to deal with diplomats or officials . they want to talk to experts from the private sector who understand the technical and financial needs of their businesses or sectors . however , no latin us agency has succeeded in adopting best practices , except for the costa rica foreign investment agency , cinde , model according to the model of ireland . many support foreign and domestic investments , despite the fact that these institutional arrangements have not been implemented in the past .
with a year-old climate agreement , the transformation of global fossil fuels markets is only a matter of time . companies with a large supply of fossil fuels such as coal will soon be in a serious uncertainty about the stranded assets , and investors can therefore change their assessment of the risks . large mining companies can prepare for this shift by moving fossil fuels to other materials such as ore , copper , bauxite , cobalt , rare earth components and lithium , and mineral fertilisers , which will need to be used in large quantities to meet the objectives of the waste of the food industry . the phasing out of coal during the latent overproduction may even be a profit . third , the world needs a better way to assess the environmental risks of mining .
he also obtained the first samples of the x-ray samples , which were partly targeted at dna . max perutz , a graduate of chemistry from vienna , arrived at cambridge in 1935 to study at bernal university . the next year he received excellent hemoglobin crystals , and soon he was able to produce the best diocardial pattern of x-ray rays . but the observable diffraction pattern - intensity and position of individual reflections - represents only half of the data needed to deduce the structure of the diffracating object . in mathematical terms , it gives amplitude , but not phase - i.e. phase oscillatory movement - without which atomic positions could not be determined .
the final game of the european union , which will be determined by the final form , is underway . it began with the publication of the european council on the draft first sixteen articles of the treaty on the establishment of a european constitution . the text is largely replicating the structure of the chairman of the assembly of the assembly of the giscard d'estaing , the constitution of the skeleton , presented by the latest november , and the conclusions of the working groups of the convention . the key word is , in particular , the key word in the present case . such loyalty has not been held for the economy , and it is not an asset .
the growth of the population and the urbanization of the population is increasing demand . in africa , when infrastructure infrastructure differences amount to $ 68-108 billion per year , businesses pay more . in nigeria , electricity outages are more than three-quarters of the businesses , and their average cost is more than 15 % of annual sales . similarly , all companies need data on investments and operational decision-making , but the statistics on emerging markets are not always reliable , and they are often influenced by political agenda . for example , in pakistan , the census , which was scheduled for 2008 , was nine years late , and when it finally came to an end , it was beset .
the editorial team of the group of media groups in 2016 suffered a similar fate . they have not even saved the most important regional outlets such as the siberian broadcaster -2 or the most independent weekly newspaper of kaliningrad , novye kolesa . each of these outlets distinguished the coverage of sensitive stories - from conflict to corruption in the country . russia has less press freedom today , and more journalists , media workers , and bloggers are behind bars than ever since the collapse of the soviet union in 1991 . in crimea and chechnya , there are no basic media protections .
today , countries , citizens and many businesses around the world are finally taking action . this month , thousands of people gathered at a conference on climate change in germany to increase global ambitions in the fight against climate change . two years ago , after a successful climate agreement , there are high expectations of further progress and continued cooperation . one of the most promising initiatives is a coalition of carbon pricing ( cplc ) , which brings 30 governments and more than 180 businesses and strategic partners to put together carbon dioxide emissions . the idea is simple : if we want to meet the objectives of the agreement to limit the increase in average temperature to less than 2 ° cellobes above the pre-industrial level - ideally , to 1.5 ° above the level of pre-industrial activity - we must significantly reduce emissions .
once the ece goes , it 's likely that bank deposits will follow in ain and italy . there is nothing to stop the spanish depositors from linking their euro from their local bank to one in a norway or new york . at this point , the only thing that is still standing between the eurozone and the financial chaos is the ecb that can buy government bonds and finance banks . the scope of such an operation would be huge and would expose the ecb to a large risk of credit . but in principle , it could be - if the northern euro allowed it .
it is clear that the interests of the unmo political interests have been allowed to dictate that the main opposition leader should be judged on charges that no real democracy , which would take the rule of law , would consider the leveling , and would be convicted of the fact that no independent court would accept it . political leaders in the area of thailand and malaysia often show the model pioneer of founder and long-term leader lee kuan , who died this month . but the path on which the two countries had reached the lee was not the way . yes , lee 's system allowed him to remain in power for 31 years , and he used civil courts - not criminal - to intimidate his opponents . but the lee , above all , is also based on elements of democratic contestation to ensure that meritocracy has triumphed over patronage .
are all his supporters " crazies " as senator john mccain called them , perhaps unwisely ? trump 's critics claim that he is playing with the most basic instincts of the disaffected voters who hate foreigners ( especially for the mexicans ) , distrust bankers ( or anyone who has higher education ) , and yet he can not overcome the election of a president whose father was black . in the words of comedian jon stewart , it is " america 's id , " or at least a large number of white , mostly older , mostly small american citizens . now , it 's all going to be , it 's gon na be all . but trump is part of a broader phenomenon , and it is part of the democratic world .
in europe , the picture is also mixed , and the picture is also in the form of a picture . the former boom countries - greece , ireland and ireland - remain in recession , and their gdps will continue to shrink . unemployment rates in the spain , one of europe 's biggest economies , have shaken to 20 % , and there is still no sign of improvement . the spanish economy , which was contracted by 3.6 % in 2009 , is expected to shrink by 0.4 % this year . for land , britain and italy , the average growth rate is expected .
malmö - everyone knows you should drink eight glasses of water every day . this is advice from a range of health writers , not to mention authorities such as britain 's national health services . healthy living now means we have water bottles , we drink constantly , we try to drink daily doses to keep the hydrates and the health of the population . we drink without thirst , but it should be : as the drink maker reminds us , " your brain may know much , but it does n't know when your body is thirsty . " of course , drinking does n't feel comfortable , but the power offers this advice : " you can train your stomach so you can take more fluid when you gradually develop your liquid intake . "
businesses do not want to invest in a time when demand for consumers is declining , and they face unprecedented risk of borrowing costs . they also face huge uncertainties , and they are also in danger of a great deal of uncertainty . what kind of power plants will be able to afford in the future , huh ? will they be allowed to release carbon dioxide in the past , as in the past ? can the united states still afford a suburban lifestyle , with sprawling homes in remote communities that require long-distance commutes ?
weak mandates , insufficient funding , disorderly structures , and the lack of a global governance system has weakened the intergovernmental authorities " ability to act with the authorities on behalf of the most vulnerable . as i have said in the early stages of this week , 20 leaders in the village of july 7-8 have the opportunity to reshape the migration system with active protection policies that would increase the confidence of people in the international leadership . although the past summits have not produced much more than just talks , this time the prospect of action is better , given that negotiations will be held in europe , where the impact of the migration crisis is deeply affected . at this point , the alphabet soup of non-profit and multilateral agencies is addressed by elements of the challenge . these include independent groups such as refugees from international ( ir ) and médecins from the front of msf .
by the end of the 1950 " s , roughly 2,000 computers were available , and their processing was averaging 10,000 instructions per second . there are now 300 million computers in the world , with an average annual increase of 56 % in the number of computer computers per second . there is a reason to believe that productivity growth will last for decades . founder of the gordon moore company has already been informed that improvements in semiconductor production allow for doubling the density of transistors every 18 months . the scale of the investment needed to be called " ore law " is exponentially increasing , and the density of transistors and circuits is still in force , but the " ore law " is still in force , and engineers do n't see any immediate obstacles to the process of improvement , which will soon be halted .
we can even get a larger number of people in the nomadic community . xinjiang means " new frontier , " and we are now at the edge of a new frontier in order to provide a sustainable solution to health care for communities in which limited resources and infrastructure are limited to access to health care . these multi-dimensional interventions , which can be used to help bridge gaps in the development of regions . but neither corporations nor governments can do it themselves , and they do n't know what else . they must work together to achieve the best possible result , and they must be able to achieve it .
fortunately , he has plenty of time , and many of the previous presidents have set a precedent for diplomatic diplomatic relations during the last few months of their stay in the white house . by the end of 1988 , ronald reagan recognized the palestine organization of liberation and allowed the state 's department to begin a " significant dialogue " with the leaders of the city of haplo . at the end of 2000 , clinton published his parameters for the future peace framework . and since the end of 2007 , george wbush has mediated negotiations between abbas and the israeli prime minister ehud olmert . it is now obama 's turn , and he should seek to resolve the security council , which will set out new parameters for the next peace agreement , and replace the security council 242 , which dates back to the six-day war between israel and egypt , jordan and syria .
in 2011 , an expert shot of 19 people , including congresswoman gabrielle giffords , attracted global attention , as well as a court order to assess his mental abilities . on the other hand , the newspaper has mentioned the australian in six months after the shooting . although mass shootings are very rare in us , the media is constantly strengthening negative perceptions of the home and abroad . in this way , we can export the stigma of mental-disease to the rest of the world . similarly , the history of cho 's mental illness has been widely discussed in the past .
it is a key issue in the global confrontation between democracy and self-cracy . for europe , it is an opportunity to promote the rule of law , transparency , trade freedom and good governance beyond its borders . the region is a vast country with a large number of human capital , natural resources and growth potential in many sectors . more importantly , successful reforms in the ukrainian region are more likely to develop in russia . the ukraine economy has shrunk two-thirds ( in dollar terms ) since 2006 , and thus has become the poorest in europe .
at one extreme point , the euro can not function as a dollar , since the eurozone is not a federalised state . rather , it should be similar to the forest system of bretton , in which countries can withdraw and re-enter after strengthening competitiveness through austerity and reforms . but this strategy carries serious risks that will eventually cause it to be unworkable . the realising of relative prices would require internal devaluation , which could lead to a weak country 's instability in the country . civil unrest and the emergence of neo-nazi parties in the south of europe are exemplified by these dangers and threatens to integrate europe 's citizens .
the problem is that monetary policy is extensive through standard operations on the open market and guarantees on central banks in the orderly markets are insufficient . economists do n't agree when governments should move over these first two items on the list . should governments try to increase monetary velocity by selling bonds , thereby increasing short-term interest rates ? should they employ workers directly or indirectly unemployed by providing forward expenditure or extending the scope of government programs ? should they explicitly guarantee the liabilities of large financial institutions and / or the class of assets ?
it also includes a promise to leave the single market and customs union for eu . the uk ministers , who are mainly responsible for the talks , have managed to reach agreement in one key area , since the 2019 march will begin with a two-year transitional period , which will be known better for their dogmatism and personal ambition . but even this agreement is not established in stone , since it depends on whether the negotiators can agree on the border between ireland and ireland at the time when uk leaves the customs union . you can be in a customs union without borders or beyond customs union . there 's no example of a place in the world where it 's not true .
the eurozone is also highly fragmented , lacking a common capital market , a unifying safe asset or macroeconomic stabilization tools . the european ecb needs a more realistic and more flexible mandate , but it is also necessary to carry out a specific mandate . given the fragmentation of the eurozone , this mandate should probably be focused on price stability . but it should also be noted that the current definition of price stability - " below , but not nearly 2 % inflation in the medium term " - is too narrow . the general definition is needed , according to which the ecb is pursuing a symmetric inflation target of 2 % in a zone of 1.5-2.5 % over the long horizon .
when it comes to peace in the middle of the east - virtually a new year 's tradition - we have to be careful . so many hopes have disappeared in a bitter failure to reach so many negotiations . but we wish to go east - one that may not bring peace , but he can create a precondition for peace : goodwill . the israel and palestine should be offered a cup of football in 2018 and should be awarded to them . the conflict between the islands and the palestine has lasted too long , and the island has been in a state of peace .
the real question is how iraq has police and military forces to be trusted to maintain both laws and order . there must be a lot of ground to be covered so that it can be anywhere close . no one should be surprised if there are any motives that are not so clean . in northern iraq , the number of old scores is being settled , and in the area of ethnic segregation is introduced as well as in the case of illegal bans , which have traditionally been different . in other areas , the sharia law is introduced in force , according to the law .
differences between demonstrations in madrid and warsight suggest that the difference between the old and new europe is still valid , although not as it was in the case of rumsfeld . of course , it would be inaccurate to stand up to a thriving poland in a collapsing spain . given the overall crisis in europe , even the economy of the poland is no longer booming . unemployment is about 10 % ( less than half the range ) , and annual growth in gdp is about 1 % ( the growth rate of spain is negative ) . but the mood in both countries and their perception of europe and their role in it is not clear .
berlin - the decision of the united kingdom 's voters to " brexit " europe 's union is not an example of british black humor i love . it 's not a flying circus of monty python , " yes , prime minister , " or " dirty towers , " it 's just a boris , michael , nigel , and their disastrous political reality show . given the economic , political and military importance of uk , brexit will remain a hole in the background . i 'm sure it will destroy the euro , but it will not destroy the euro . at the moment , it is not possible to say anything about uk at the same time .
as the island 's state celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians remember nakedness or disaster - their story of being dispossessed , occupation , and statelessness . but the events of 1948 and what followed - the occupation of the remaining historical palestine since 1967 - are tragic . this failure is largely due to the continued occupation of the military and illegal settlement . despite the fact that the island 's army has spoken to peace , it is still refusing to leave the occupied territory directly contrary to the reasons for the resolution of the united nations security council 242 , which is called " inadmissible use of land by force . " but the international community , the palestinians and abs are also responsible , though at different levels .
reducing uncertainty could increase or even increase fiscal stimulus programs , as it would address the main cause of unwillingness to spend . moreover , the recession insurance could not be imposed on the government , since , if it encourages confidence , it is prevented from insured . the government 's ability to provide such insurance in such a scale that it is not covered by costs is one of the reasons for the public order of private insurers . blanchard and his colleagues point out that banks could provide loans to businesses in the purchase of insurance for recession , which could help credit markets to better address serious problems that are the cause of the current crisis . they say that this would create a market opinion on future output and the likelihood of serious shocks , though they do not explain how structured this market would be .
enforcement has failed so far , owing to the shortcomings in the eurozone 's foundations . first , it is necessary to check the balances on the accounts in the form of financial stability and maintain a common currency . second , the elimination of imbalances is the responsibility of the national governments under the auspices of the rescue regime , which is managed by the multinational authorities - the euro and the european central bank - in cooperation with the european council , which is in turn a national government . the greek saga shows that this system can not handle destabilizing imbalances so quickly that it can prevent serious crises . imbalances are not only the result of irresponsible policies , but also the consequences of these measures .
as a result , the trade surplus fell to $ 20.4 billion , and there was growing concern about the slowdown in chinese . china 's economic downturn suddenly seems to be , after all , its exports increased by double numbers every month until it was possible . indeed , the real condition of the chinese economy has long been hidden , but it has now been subject to stricter rules of activity such as speculative trading of renminbi masquerading as a business payment . china 's " two systems in one country " enabled exports to customs warehouses in hong kong to be used to block trade statistics . moreover , exports of chinese origin would sometimes increase when the volume of goods was transported from ports .
for most investors , the value of each project depends largely on the effectiveness of the post-investment management . therefore , clear rights and obligations must be addressed carefully at the start of the investment , which has not been present before . after all , m & a is the first step on a long road . as chinese companies invest abroad - as mine currently does in latin america - they are not only required to invest wisely and sustainably for their companies , but also to incorporate strategies with china 's national investment priorities . these objectives are not mutually exclusive , especially if the business leaders adhere to the newly articulated principles of sustainable investment and long-term commitments .
and our embrace of global responsibility extends to the self-defense forces of japan . members of the self-defense forces have demonstrated exemplary cooperation with us and the australian armed forces since the earthquake in 2011 , and they have earned a great deal of respect and respect for all they have been deployed , including haiti , indonesia and recent philippines . the fact that a pro-active contribution to peace means that japan will bear its own responsibility for ensuring the security of global prosperity and stability . cooperation with countries that share common values and interests will be protected and developed by international public goods , ranging from space to cyberspace to heaven and seas . as the world will see in obama 's visit , japan will come back and prosper .
how can the best leaders of the israel , abbas and pa prime minister salam fayad be able to negotiate if talks can not be initiated , until the israel insists that they will withdraw from the minimum status of the settlement freeze in occupied territories ? the peace initiative of the island is still a critical issue for 2002 : the full normalisation of relations between the entire arab world and the exchange of comprehensive peace settlement . how long will this action be taken when peace talks are not going anywhere ? another big question for the island is whether it can take the consequences if a two-state solution is completely out of the agenda . as the founding father david ben-gurion warned , it could be jewish , it could be a democratic state , and it could be a state that occupied the entire historical island .
and it was n't a crisis that caused corruption , which is affecting the government 's position at all levels , or that russia has lost its democratic dynamism . we russians have taken oil and gas , and we have forgotten that these resources will not last forever . but even with favorable conditions on the world market , we have not managed to solve the problem of poverty , which millions of russians are still alive . i 'm sure russia 's problems are all going to the end of politics . we need a democratic , competitive environment , a civil society , and a real public administration .
but allowing ece to default and remain in the eurozone is not an option : it would mean that other eurozone countries could repay huge debts , financed by the ecb , without even intending to pay them . the financial responsibility of the eurozone would be severely disrupted by the threat of death . but the fact that the eurozone has failed to fail - despite its will - is not an option either : it would bring the country into economic , social , and political instability , and there would be serious consequences beyond the borders of the country . in my view , there are only two viable options left in the present case . the first - and more desirable - is that the ecb will assess the lack of solvency of a realistically greece , and thus stop providing ela funds to its banking system .
china , for example , imposes an idle-land tax on previously public property if its owners fail to initiate the development process within one year . this brings us to a second key lever to expand affordable housing : more coherent and more efficient construction industry . as it stands , housing construction is highly fragmented , preventing the use of economies of scale , and builders often rely largely on the same methods used 50 years ago . the standardized design elements such as the ceiling , fixed and flooring , construction companies can reduce costs and increase productivity , as workers have experience with repeated tasks . further savings can be achieved by industry approaches , such as using components - such as walls and flooring plates - built off the site .
encouraging , developing countries " governments have increasingly demanded the vaccine against hpv . this makes sense : for 266,000 women who die of cancer every year - an average of one every two minutes - 85 % are developing countries . if this number is not checked , it is expected that the number will rise to 416,000 by 2035 , and that the mother will be killed . for many of these countries , the vaccine is not only an effective solution , which prevents 1,500 deaths per 100,000 vaccinated person , but is often the only solution , as the poorest countries do not have the option to examine or treat cancer . this is why cancer experts , government officials , private-sector leaders and representatives of civil society met in addis ababa a few weeks ago .
washington , dc - ongoing investigations into corruption in brazil have revealed a network of illegal relations between private and government officials and elected politicians . corruption scandals have already reached the highest level of the brazilian society , and the uk has already achieved a series of scandals . several senior politicians , owners of companies and executives , have been convicted and imprisoned . even former president luiz inácio lula da silk is accused of indictment . meanwhile , the drama has taken its toll on the brazilian economy , which is why it is not a good thing .
this is a long-term good thing to do , but it exacerbates short-term inequalities and differences . i do n't want to argue with capitalism , but i 'm warning that support will be fragile , much more than globalization is now . most countries rely too much on leadership and control , and they do not provide much incentive for patients and providers to make effective decisions . however , it is necessary to examine whether the health pressure will eventually lead to the current trend of free capitalism ( and freer ) , which will reverse the market capitalism , and a large part of the economy will return to a more socialist system . some societies may think it 's better to be red than to be dead .
the camp - a physicist of the nineteenth century , heinrich hertz once described his sense that james 's clerk 's equations , which depict the basic energy and magnetism , " have an independent existence and intelligence that they are wiser ... than their exploits , that we are more out of them than they originally put in them . " shortly afterwards , albert einstein called the atomic model of niels bohr " the highest form of musicality in the thought sphere . " recently , the late nobel laureate richard feynman , who described his discovery of new laws of physics , declared : " you can recognize the truth by its beauty and simplicity . " similar sentiments are all but universal among modern physicists , and they are not so different . wishful thinking could never create a functional iphone , a photo of pluto or atomic bombs .
why , with a clear alternative to the table , did the government choose an predictably disastrous procedure at such high cost ? there are three options : insufficient knowledge , intent and strategic interaction between them . let 's start with the last one , and we 'll start with the other one . in 1991 , the alberto alesina 's allan drazen and alberto alesina suggested that economic stabilization could be delayed , as two contending groups are trapped in a war of destruction ; they understand that the adjustment is necessary , but they expect the other group to bear the burden of costs . by delaying them , they provide information to the other group about their willingness to overcome the pain .
a democratic , prosperous and stable europe is a better and safer world for us . here 's where the food is coming from , and i 'm going to eat it . by changing its monetary policy regime to target 4 % annual inflation - or 6 % annual growth in the gdp - we would move quickly to the eurozone . instead of seeing the 30 % euro appreciation coming from the current monetary policy of the european ecb , the german exporters would rather call for measures to prevent america 's " competitive devaluation , " and eventually caused moderate inflation in the north rather than the current downpour in the south . the world in which we have proven to honor the trust that is required to play the role of global economic heritage is much better for us than for us , in which it is not trusted .
and a 47 republican senators have written a letter to the leaders of ireland , announcing that congress will not honor any nuclear agreement with obama . another source of doubt about america 's lasting influence is that multilateral engagement is still needed , and this is always more difficult than bilateral commitments . multilateral leadership is not only clear and bolder , but also demonstrated willingness to bear the costs of these rules , whether by creating safe zones to protect civilians or take concrete steps to reduce nuclear arsenals . bilateral engagement will be one of obama 's most important legacies in foreign policy . but to ensure that we can continue the twenty-first century , there will be a different kind of engagement .
caracas - venezuela president nicolás maduro and his government have destroyed their country . while they claim to be poor and poor poor and trumpet their readiness to fight for their " selfless " cause of bolifless , they refuse international assistance , forcing venezuelans to emigrate or suffer ( and in many cases they die ) from a severe shortage of food , medicine and medical supplies . the destruction of venezuela must be discontinued immediately if its viability is restored and the company is resettled . this requires a new government of unquestionable legitimacy , selected by a free and fair presidential election , according to the constitution . of course , maduro and his associates do not only step down , as the loss of power would likely mean a long prison sentence for drug trafficking or a hag for human trafficking .
china has largely taken a " field of dreams " approach to urbanization : " buildings it and come . " in the last 30 years , massive public investments and economic liberalization have driven rapid growth in coastal provinces . china 's leaders are increasingly taking this strategy inland , making critical investments in physical and human capital . but the effectiveness of these investments depends on the number and rate of implementation and how they are adequately adapted to the different resources , needs and desires of each local country . it is necessary to address four issues related to the issue of the dispute .
if china is really moving away from north korea , kim jong-un 's regime will be virtually isolated . will he respond to this isolation without any consideration , by continuing to alienate the south or pragmatically , by becoming more flexible ? it 's not easy to answer , but i 'm sure it 's a problem . it should be clear to kim that his provocation is not for his country . for example , his late behaviour in 2013 has worsened relations with china , south korea , and the united states , and in the recent crisis , he has only stopped mocking the loudspeaker .
the only thing that has changed since then is the growth of islamic fundamentalism and religious radicalization . the question was highlighted by the french prime minister manuel valls - the son of spanish immigrants - referring to the issue of " social and ethnic apartheid . " the need to address this outcome in the area of mutual agreement and across europe is becoming more important , as young and non-privileged immigrants are rising with the emergence of far-right political parties . europe can not afford ethnic conflicts , but it is difficult for immigrants to be more likely to be in the aging and shrinking population . the statistics are sometimes contradictory , but the current foreign population of the european union , which is 33 million , can increase by another 100 million immigrants by the mid-century .
countries where english are not lingua franca are particularly disadvantaged in science , not because they lack scientific knowledge , but because english journals call it shots . the non-english academic magazines do not only have the same attention as in the scientific community . the scope of research topics , which can be limited by many countries , must therefore be limited and must be sought to maintain scientific talent . this is especially true in the middle east , where governments are struggling to diversify their economy , and thus make them more resilient . developing countries must invest heavily in their own data infrastructure , so that national researchers can be more competitive .
after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . at this week 's international monetary bank meeting in the spring of the world , malpass must address these issues . he should not be judged by his past or his connection to the trump administration , but by delivery .
in principle , there are two competing explanations , and they do n't have to be involved . the first , hypothesis of secular stagnation has been proposed by the larry summer . the key assumption is that the balance of interest in demand is currently lower than the real interest rate . paradoxically , interest rates are close to zero in most advanced economies . but what matters is the real interest rate , i.e. the difference between market inflation and inflation .
the african players grunted for their lack of euro to reduce their trade opportunities during the crucial period of league play . but the most important lesson in africa 's cup is that successful nations combine globalization 's opportunities with strong domestic foundations . the winner of the cup was not a cameroon or a cote d'ivoire , or any other team of african , loaded with stars from the european leagues , but an egypt that only played four players ( 23 ) who played in europe . on the contrary , the cameroon , which was defeated in the final , was only one player of the domestic club and twenty from the european clubs . few egyptian players would be familiar to the europeans who watched the game , but they played much better , and they deserved to win .
berlin - the world 's task of addressing north korea 's sword is not to make it easier for him to face an impoverished and effectively defeated country . on the contrary , in such circumstances , it is necessary to maintain a calm foresight . the genius of the habsburg empire prince klemens von metternich was in a new international order after the war with the napoleonic , that he had not pushed a defeated ance into the corner . although metternich tried to deter any french recovery , he restored the pre-war border of france . by contrast , as henry kissinger claimed , the winners of the world war could not deter the defeated germans , nor would they provide incentives to accept the versailles contract .
sometimes , when you 're dating a recession , it 's a decision to call . america had a short , sharp recession in 1980 , followed by a long and serious recession in 1981 / 1982 . many economists believe it was a major episode . but the economy actually grew up in a transitional period - only so that it could not be regarded as a separate recessions . and since they were separated from president jacob 's carter to president ronald reagan , there was a political consequence that two recessions were identified .
in the 1990 " s , sanctions regimes were introduced at an average of about 7 years . two-thirds of those 67 cases were unilateral sanctions imposed by the united states in the last decade . during the presidency of bill clinton , it is estimated that about 40 % of the population of the world , or 2.3 billion people , were punished by some of us . the large majority of sanctions are imposed on large countries against small countries . at the moment , we have nearly 8,000 sanctions on the world , and the irish are the biggest target in the state .
in the same tweet , which justifies his phone call with tsai , he repeated the false allegations that china had devaluing its currency to gain export benefits vis-à-vis us . his knowledge of international economics is either missing or not in a decade . china is now hemorrhaging foreign-exchange reserves , and it is desperately trying to support the renminbi 's value before the capital flight . trump is obviously hostile to china for no reason , and he 's not good . worse , we will declare that the trans-pacific partnership will be withdrawn - at least partly designed to shape global trade flows and investment flows according to western rules , rather than china 's vision of the chinese market - trump will also abandon a policy that could control china 's influence in asia .
we know there is no alternative power that would be willing to step in and assume what we were . china is a candidate who is often mentioned , but its leadership is mainly aimed at consolidating domestic order and maintaining artificially high economic growth rates to suppress the popular unrest . china 's interest in regional and global institutions is largely aimed at strengthening its economy and geopolitical influence , rather than helping to create rules and generally beneficial arrangements . russia is also a country with a narrow economy , led by the government , aimed at maintaining power at home and restoring russian influence in the middle east and europe . india is facing economic development , and its problematic relationship with pakistan is bound by it .
the chinese growth rate in china decreased by 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , and the lowest growth rate since the second quarter of 2009 . the newly released growth data may have been deterred by the concerns of a hard landing on china , but many of them have urged china to support its economy in order to guarantee an eight-year increase in growth . since early 2010 , when inflation and bubbles are included , the chinese government has tightened monetary policy . as a result , inflation fell by 2.2 % , low prices of 29-month , and household prices , for which the national bureau of statistics , unfortunately , stopped issuing official data , seemed to be stabilizing , and may even be reduced , albeit modestly . the slowdown in china 's growth rate is , to some extent , a reflection of the success of government efforts to rein in housing bubbles and other official policies aimed at balancing the economy .
after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . it is necessary to take into account the personal freedom and independence of a woman in terms of moral condition , rather than forcing her to risk health or wellbeing by introducing unwanted or dangerous pregnancy . but , given how many misinformation and mud are rife with misplaced arguments , policy discussions are often not going anywhere , unless abortion is first and foremost in health matters .
the permanent perception of africa in the world is exacerbating the plight of the population of slums , and it is not possible to pursue global development programs . every day , there will be more people in nairobi , who will be lured to the promise of employment , resources , and better life , only to realize that they are not equipped to survive , and that their children will grow up in a slum . at least half of those who live in urban slums are 20 years old . without access to education , this generation - which will soon be a majority - has little hope of escaping from its straitened conditions . but how long will most serve as a minority ?
the problem is that the principle can not be applied consistently , and that is why it is not possible to proceed . the world in which we live is a small garden of well-explored territory , surrounded by a dark forest of disaster . there are disasters lurking in the distance : asteroids and comets , global pandemics and epidemics , nuclear wars , nuclear wars , and non-nuclear wars , drought , famines , and floods , volcanic eruptions , earthquakes , and tsunamis , human overpopulation , and extinction of non-humans , rising temperatures and sea levels , falling temperatures , and melting ice , exhaustion of clean air and water , the disappearance of forests , farms , and fish . all of these disasters - and many others , which can still be imagined - are possible , and many of them are unacceptable . the precautionary principle prescribes measures to prevent them all , regardless of costs .
milan - for most post-world war periods , economic policy focused on unemployment . the massive loss of jobs in the great crisis - which was only reversed when world war ii and the huge debt that was accumulated to finance it , the economic growth of the economy , which began to run - had a lasting effect for at least two generations . but employment is only one aspect of social care , and today 's world is not enough . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries .
after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . the cold war in the twentieth century led two rival military alliances against each other . the sino-american rivalry , on the other hand , includes two economies that are closely linked to each other and the rest of the world .
the way the residents of this archipelago were systematically disposed of and thrown out of their country , which was called the west 's strategic interests , is a tragedy for which the west could be returned and returned . in 1968 to 1973 , british labor and conservative governments took the removal of all living on 55 islands , which now form the british indian ocean , and thus were separated from the mauritius at the time of their independence . this was done in the most common states , which were then brought into the war of vietnam and needed for understandable security reasons , using the island of diego garcia as a base for air and naval transport . the british foreign office said the chagos had no settled population . the chagossians were sent to the seychelles and mauritius , where they were deposited and left to take care of themselves .
the pakistani pakistani has witnessed a successful democratic transition in the history of the 71-year-old , and the prime minister has taken office after his party has won the general election on the anti-corruption slogan . the hope is high for the new government , which is likely to work with both technocrats and opponents to address the numerous challenges of pakistan . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries . the killing of one of the highest military leaders of ireland is a symbolic defeat for the irish regime , but it is not a war of augur .
thanks to the dodhonest act of 2010 , the fed may provide an emergency hedged financing only to five eligible institutions - which is a problem if only four of the biggest banks are in trouble - and it must confirm that the counterparty is financially viable before any financial means are available . however , the task of determining whether a problematic entity is viable is best left after the recovery of the financial order . as this concept suggests , " emergency " liquidity must be available immediately to important financial institutions - even if they are in a default or in a crisis . in any event , anti-cyclical pursuit of price stability and / or full employment in cyclical downturns is now intended for an extended non-voluntary holiday . if governments do not save intelligent anti-cyclical fiscal and supply-side policies , the main advanced economies will likely be able to embark on a long series of classic cyclical cyclical negative developments .
fiscal adjustment and structural reforms without financing are more fragile , and they can not fail without a liquidity balance to prevent public debt running , while appropriate policies are implemented and gradually gaining credibility . if the ece does not fully adjust its policies to restore sustainability and competitiveness , it will likely be partially saved by the eu , and the environmental balance will be possible to avoid the risk of contagion in the rest of the eurozone , and the subsequent threat of the monetary union 's survival . the default greece could have the same systemic effects as the collapse of lehman brothers in 2008 . sovereign spreads are already pricing the risk of domino effects from greenback to spain , portugal and other members of the eurozone . instead and the school school school is concerned about the moral hazard of any bailout .
the share of the mountain and porous border with afghanistan includes many taliban sympathizers among their colleagues . human rights groups have long insisted on extending the mandate of pakistan 's constitution to tribal bands , where religious parties have broad support . these religious parties , whose coalition now heads the provincial government in the northern western frontier province , were politically marginalised , until pakistan 's military dictator , general zia ul , led by pakistan 's secret intervention in the war against the soviet occupation of afghistan . thanks to his rule , religious policy grew along with the number of madrassahs and fighters trained and equipped by pakistani and intelligence agencies . the terrorist attacks on september 11 , 2001 and subsequent pressure from washington led to a u-turn by pakistan to avoid pro-jihadi policies .
america has always sought to isolate its markets from foreign competition . so history has triumphed over ideology , and it is a great deal of success . with the loss of american interest , the main support for neo-liberal policies has been withdrawn . mainstream politicians can still nod respectfully when the world 's free market is applied , but in practice the world is changing to an old and more resilient model . it is implicitly accepted that , as in the past , there will be a number of economic systems and schemes in the world .
the first few years of his reign were dominated by his efforts to gain control of the oil company in the state 's ownership , pdf . after 2003 reformed political control , vez fired 40 % of pdf 's employees . his hatred for foreign entities in the industry ( in 2007 , he owned several american oil companies ) limited investments and maintained a return on production . chávez made a pdf into his personal estate and used it as a cow in cash ; many of his social programs were funded directly from the company 's budget . the starved of cash , pdf , had to be reduced to maintenance and expansion , which increased the number of accidents and limited production .
another option is an armed attack by the united states , the island , or both the nuclear facilities of ian . one such prospect would likely retaliate against us by the interests and interests of iraq and iraq 's employees , and by using hamas and hezbollah against the island and others . iran could also interfere with oil traffic , leading to an increase in prices , and the subsequent blow to us and global economic recovery . moreover , while preventing an attack on nuclear weapons would not prevent iran 's nuclear activity , the regime would not prevent its recovery , and it could also create conditions that would cause problems for domestic opponents . but despite these possible drawbacks , the armed attack on the nuclear power of ian and should remain a clear possibility , given the huge strategic costs of nuclear weapons .
sir north is remembered for losing the british union with america , and that 's why we 're not here . two centuries later , the outgoing prime minister , david cameron , may be remembered for the loss of two unions - with the euro and between england and scotland . while the conservatives want scotland to be in a british country without europe , scottish nationalists want scotland to be in europe without britain . and with the republic of ireland led by sinn fein , who demand that the vote be reunited to the south , the existence of uk is now directly in the agenda . one way to mitigate uncertainty and risks is to reduce : the government should quickly announce that it will act on the basis of the standard option of membership of the committee .
the power-sharing agreement is not unthinkable , and syria 's geography is not well suited to a division of sectarian lines . assad 's war goal was to avoid decisive defeat and gain international legitimacy in the hope of favorable political solutions . the increase in the status of the islamic state has contributed to the government 's claim that the risk of syria is taking over terrorist groups , but the regime is increasingly isolated . the last few days of asad are unlikely to be nice , and they do n't know what to do . the tight members of the clan , political allies and many alawite minorities will be fighting for their survival .
if the super-rich do n't believe they 're part of society anymore , and they do n't need government , it 's not because this belief is consistent with objective reality . the fact that the main story of our time is portrayed by markets as a separate entity running on their own fuel . this is a story that afflicts all parts of society , the middle class is nothing less than rich . there 's no reason to expect super-rich to act less selfishly than any other group . but their self-interest is not so much of a way of achieving greater equality and social inclusion .
but , although it is possible to explain why capital spending has been low for the last three years , it is not possible to explain why capital expenditure has been inadequate , so that the rate of expansion is not reduced for more than three decades . the only explanation is the shift in the composition of activities that are not related to capital production , such as manufacturing , for less intensive activities such as services . if the disease has multiple causes , multiple treatments should be taken to the treatment . it is necessary to encourage businesses to hire long-term unemployed , to spend more on infrastructure , education and research to offset the decline in private equity spending , and to strengthen banks " capital requirements and strengthen the regulation of financial institutions that are not banks , so that they do not take excessive risks . central banks should finally set a higher inflation target , which would give them more room to reduce nominal interest rates in the future .
the alleged civilizing influence of being a partner in the west - for example , chaired by a g-8 summit in st petersburg - seems to have lost its influence on the cabal of putin . russia is once again exposed to western values , and it is a façade of laws and democratic institutions , but behind this cardboard area , the same arbitrary rule is displayed . the danger to the world is that putin 's injustice is exported to the world . across russia 's borders , there are criminal diplomacy . look at pug 's attempt to bring down the previous presidential election , and the allegations against the leader of the opposition to yuliya tymoshenko have been rebuffed .
in latin america , many people live with their hands outstretched , and they do n't know what to do . throughout the hemisphere , paternalistic governments accustom people to survive , instead of participating in society . politicians who once called themselves " philanthropic ogres " create clients instead of citizens , people who expect it instead of demand . democratic latin america is moving sideways , because it 's not going to run out of it . there are too many barriers to access to poor , innovative people , and people who do n't have access to credit .
these two examples are the world index of competitiveness and the new index of inclusive growth and development . competitiveness must , for example , be able to increase the market share without sacrificing margins or reducing wages , which would reflect higher productivity . the inclusiveness of growth must be linked to differences in income and growth between different regions and social groups . but this is not what these indexes are , in fact , measured . instead , indexes include variables - what they call " policy space " - which should lead to competitiveness or inclusive growth .
from 1960 and 1970 , those who wrote about the underworld often mourned the disease of " dutch disease . " there were so many generous subsidies , subsidies and payments to transfer - to anyone who had really needed to sell their jobs - that wages after taxes were often higher than benefits . so people rarely came back to work after they lost or left work , or did so in an underground economy with unreported cash payments . whether you consider the welfare of dutch people humane and generous or inflated and foolish , its largesse has taken a considerable toll on the economy . but , unlike the french , the dutch have responded to their previous excesses with a series of policies that support the return of employment to official labor markets .
but the major segments of global financial and economic elite think that if we do not reach a recession in the next few months , trump will be re-elected . moreover , their prognosis is not just a fear of being wrong ; many of them seem to have resigned to such a result , and others may even hope for it . at this point , the comparison with the 1930 " s inevitably takes place . of course , trump and adolf hitler do n't have much in common . but , as it seems , the re-election of trump , a large part of the liberal establishment is behaving like german financial and industrial elites when hitler was promoted in 1930 .
to avoid such a future , asian countries must change the rules of the game , and to provide young people with opportunities , regardless of their background , to climb up the ladder of income . the market mechanisms are not enough to achieve this goal , and they do not have to be implemented . governments must adopt measures and complement their pro-growth policies with policies aimed at ensuring that profits are shared in a more equal and sustainable way . some asian governments have certainly tried to address inequality with progressive redistribution policies . south korea 's government recently announced that the minimum wage would increase by 16.4 % by 16.4 % by 2020 , and by 7.530 ( 6.70 ) .
the egyptian defense blocked the main road across the sinai , and a fortified container containing powerful artillery and more than a hundred tanks , and three parallel lines of trench-controlled three thousand infantry , anchored on the dunes and high ground . sharon had his troops climbing over the sand dunes to reach the upper end of the trench and attack the length of the attack - a simple maneuver that the egyptians could have defeated if they had n't been hit by artillery barrage and the israeli tanks . the infantry recorded the flashes on their helmets so that the gunmen from the tanks could shoot at the egyptians just before them . the egyptian artillery was still better , and at least the tanks were supposed to shut down at the trench . but the paratroopers , who had flown by helicopter , suddenly jumped up with the egyptian crew , who had never had a chance to fight .
in the long term , countries should aim to offset the participation rate in traditional courses of first aid . in the last three years , 11 % of the australia population has completed this course , partly because of the requirements that people in certain places , such as the health care workers , have a first-aid certificate . the need for people in particular professions - including teachers in high school , nurses and policemen - would greatly increase their participation in the first aid certificate , thereby strengthening the support of those who have problems with mental health . these certificates are even more important in developing countries , given that mental health professionals are limited . pilot work in rural india shows that the approach to first-aid mental-health assistance can be successfully adapted to the needs of communities with limited resources .
however , the cost of producing these drugs is much lower than the market price , which is about $ 350 - 500 a year for a combination of three drugs used to treat aid . some manufacturers of generic medicines such as cipla india have offered these drugs at the price of production . in response to this offer ( and to bad publicity ) , merck , abbott laboratories and bristol myers squibb , three large companies holding the patent , announced that their willingness to supply african to zero profit - ie , for the help of drugs produced by the patient for about $ 500 a year . the tragedy of millions of poor people dying of aid , even if drugs are needed to treat them , raises serious questions about the rights of intellectual property , as patent protection prevents the emergence of essential medicines that are poor in the world . but how can a global patent system be beneficial , which would encourage innovation and new discoveries , together with a guarantee that poor people will gain access to medical care , which they desperately need ?
but what if the populist movement of voters helps to advance a broader political restructuring that will ultimately strengthen europe 's democratic position ? this reading is reinforced by the experience of the macron himself , and the same is true . macron never held the elected office , and he created a new party , with support from both the left and right voters . it seems to me that in this process he has reorganized french politics in the past . the election of the european parliament in the next year will be more likely to reveal the potential for this policy restructuring .
washington , dc - in december 2014 , the cover of the issue of " person of the year " was a nursing assistant , who did not only survive the ebola epidemic in her native liberia , but also helped waves of patients who had arrived at the ebola ward . karwah was a hero who had met a tragic ending , and he was n't very happy about it . a year ago , she died of complications in childbirth . childbirth is dangerous for women and newborns in the entire history of the human race . in the nineteenth century , as in a hundred years , the mother died .
the rest of the area wanted to emulate them , but they did n't want to be involved . of course , refugee labor is a delicate political issue for the help of syria 's neighbors . about two million syrians live in turkey and live in ordan for more than a million . most of them live outside the refugee camps and many work illegally . unemployment in turkey and ordan is about 10 % , and 12 % of the state is naturally wary of programs that could cost citizens jobs .
the reasons why president george wbush decided to go to war in afghanistan and iraq were no doubt complex . but the language used by neo-conservative promoters of these wars was directly from the kennedy era : the spread of democracy , the freedom of movement and the general authority of " american values . " one of the reasons american citizens chose obama in 2008 was that idealism led to death and displacement of millions of people . when politicians talk about " freedom , " people see campaigns against bombing , torture chambers and constantly threatening lethal drones . the problem with obama 's american politics is based on the contradictory nature of his leadership .
the recent visit of president bush to asia has produced little news - according to the proposal . but that is because the bush has not begun to address the issue that is still growing in the area : a change in security in asia , given china 's growing economic and military power . this summer , for example , china and russia carried out their first major military exercises . it was followed by russian reports that china , russia , and india would carry out trilateral military exercises called " indira 2005 , " on the same scale before the end of this year . in the past , such a combination of countries was almost unthinkable , and these exercises could not be explained as simple " one-off " affairs with a small resonance .
emerging-market governments must address critical issues arising from weak coordination within the framework of health and health care policies and programmes between member states and municipalities . they should consider reforms that include the granting of authority , resources and responsibilities to address health and health outcomes . it is necessary to introduce anti-cipatory urban planning based on realistic demographic forecasts , patient registers , and health information systems , as well as on the participation of urban health networks . proven systems and reforms should be shared between emerging cities and successful new innovation and ideas should be adapted to local conditions . this includes new and affordable technologies such as low-cost mobile phones for the use of municipal health workers .
shanghai - a close control of the media about the unrest in tibet has followed what seems to be much more open to the devastating earthquake in sichuan province . is this a change in china 's strategy or just a short-term change in tactics ? this question is expressed in the light of chinese public opinion at the second stage of the crisis . to the consternation of western media , chinese people worldwide have been whipped up against the alleged biased coverage of the tibetan insurgency . crowds of chinese emigrants and students have taken to the streets and protested against prejudice they have seen in western media reports .
as a result , the livers of our ancestors have remained healthy for a long time . our ancestors ate carbohydrates ( polymers of glucose ) , which were also transported to the liver by glycolytic pathways and were broken into energy . any excess of glucose stimulated the pancreas to release insulin , which was transported to the peripheral fat tissue , and thus caused the liver to be stored as glycogen . they were so healthy that their lives were still healthy , and they did n't even know what to do . and nature provided all natural food with either fat or carbohydrates as a source of energy , not both .
each year there are 2.4 million new infections , and 34 million people live with hiveaways and aids that require treatment to be kept alive . there is a general misperception in the developed world that we have already won the battle against hiveaways and aids . in fact , the crisis is just less visible , and it is not clear . sub-saharan africa has 10 % of the population in the world , but is 70 % of the population living with hires / aids . the disease is estimated to reduce average growth in the state by 2-4 % per year .
leaving the single market would cause serious uncertainty for the british economy , especially for its financial sector . even the two of us have said it will not be possible to negotiate a separate free-trade agreement with uk . but staying in the single market is worth it - the one that british voters do n't have to support . uk would have to accept the satellite status , which is now norway , eland and listein , and would accept and implement the decision that it does not participate in shaping . if this democratic deficit is unacceptable to uk , it will remain alone and remain in the cold .
as the curtain drops , two developments will have a significant impact on the process of withdrawal and the final result . the first is the management of the transition to the afghan control system , which depends on the proper withdrawal of u.s. and indian forces by 2014 . the second is an election , which should also be held in 2014 by a new president on the board - a process that must allow the united states and its nato allies to claim to be able to claim the country 's legitimate government . for afghaunts , ravaged by war without a break , as the " saur revolution " of 1978 will be even more nerve-wracking . as we leave the military , it will be a new period of political and strategic uncertainty , after nearly half a century of civil war .
new york - a rare and alarming experience is watching a sophisticated democratic society that knowingly enters the predictable and prevented national disaster . most british politicians are well aware that leaving the european union union without a deal with the post-brexit relationship will cause huge damage to their country . they do n't sleep in the abyss , they have wide open eyes , and they do n't sleep . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish . and this shift would be a growing challenge for us to be interested in other countries .
this is no longer a choice , and this is not a good choice . even if we had n't tried to normalize relations , russia 's current economic woes would probably have lost its long standing - and already much-reduced - support for the stro government . normalization of relationships with us is a key element of liberalization in cuba . these changes are best served by not imposing sanctions or using military " shock and awe " tactics , such as iraq , but by improving the socio-economic economy and diplomatic engagement of external forces . indeed , the predictions that cuba might now be able to move to a model of political autocracy and economic opening could be accurate only in the short term .
in recent years , much of the political activity was directly or indirectly focused on exchange rates , which meant new economic and political divisions . although countries have not fully protected themselves since the global financial crisis began , the problems of economic and labor markets in key countries can force politicians to protect domestic markets and seek to gain external competitiveness . but while caution is in place , the chances of big countries to accept competitive devaluations - which will begin real currency wars - are slim . we know that weidmann does not like central banks , especially the european central bank , buying sovereign bonds . but the claim that unconventional monetary policy measures would entail a risk of " much stronger exchange rates . "
the census bureau projects that the american population will increase by 49 % over the next four decades . today we are the third most populous country in the world , and in 50 years it is likely to be third ( after only china and india ) . immigration is not only important for economic power , but , given that nearly all developed countries are aging , and they face the burden of providing older generations , it could help to reduce the sharpness of the problem . in addition , although studies suggest that short-term and direct economic benefits at national level are relatively small , and workers who are not skilled in terms of competition , it is important to make it more important for the economic sector . a 1 % increase in the number of graduates of immigrants in high schools leads to a 6 % increase in patents per capita .
in fact , only two of the six main economic tasks identified by the working conference are in line with the strategic agenda of the third plenary session . the call for enhanced social security is consistent with the third plenary proposal , which is to allocate 30 % of the profits of state-owned enterprises to finance security programs such as pensions and health care . the emphasis on the " decisive role " of markets in improving china 's industrial structure and removing excess capacity is also consistent with the third bowl 's aim of achieving a shift in the market for consumers . but what is yet to be seen as another example of the time spent on the kitchen sink approach to chinese economic policy - countless proposals , initiatives , and objectives that are best connected , and often plagued by internal contradictions . a new approach is needed , and three key changes to china 's economic policy framework will be needed .
the basic economic reality , which is now facing the ecb , is that the american economy is collapsing into a serious fall - bernanke 's surprise has spoken to this . it defies economic logic and considers that the global economy - including the euro - will escape its consequences . as the growth rate in europe is slowing , the inflation pressures will also be reduced . so trichet should be released , threatening others , and letting the economic slowdown be done for him . despite the sticky wages and prices of europe , the global slowdown will reduce energy , commodity and food prices in world markets , and all of these factors are important for the current increase in inflation rates in the euro .
all major players in russia 's energy economy quickly fell into line with political measures , and they were able to use oil and gas exports as a geopolitical cudgel . instead , countries he could not intimidate in military terms were woolly beaten by discounts - or punished by hikes . hungarian prime minister victor orbán is a friend of the putin region in europe ( although the greek prime minister alexis tsipras seems to want to change that ) , while the leaders of the poland have consistently warned that russia could threaten the continent again . as a result , hungary pays 260 per thousand cubic meters of gas , poland pays 526 - the highest price . the poles have paid a high price , but they have been in place .
but , although the allegations of biopiracy may have emotional appeal , the impartial analysis has shown that they have no factual basis . biopiracy is so rare that it can be handled directly . instead , the world created a baroque bureaucratic system that systematically inhibits scientific research , plant breeding and building intellectual property . the seed agreement will achieve this by establishing a multilateral system for access to a negotiated list of agricultural genetic resources . the first contract also led to the control of 15 research institutions , which include a consultative group of international agricultural research ( cgiar ) , an influential partnership for global research .
he also reduced the resources he had provided to some religious institutions , helping those in his circle to set up private banks by easing regulations and challenging the most powerful economic and military institutions of ireland , islamic revolutionary guards . but as the rift between khamenei and ahmadinejad grew , the support for the president was significantly diminished , and even the media , which was referring to ahmadinejad 's loyalists , was called a " deviation . " moreover , unlike ahmadinejad , the media , who are not state , now publicly criticize its economic and political agenda . with the end of ahmadinejad 's second and final term , it seems unlikely that the disgraced and unpopular president will leave his efforts to destabilize the ruling establishment of ian . in fact , he had long promoted the mashai as a successor , but khamenei had managed to limit his illegal efforts - and now he had stopped to candidacy .
finally , reforms were launched under the leadership of the monti , and the markets calmed . in order to increase the credibility of public finances , monti 's government has significantly increased taxes , especially in real estate , while maintaining the record of a high tax rate . the tax plan pointed out that this is a country of public debt and wealth . as the economic coincidence suggests , italian wealth is still , even if not long , second to zero in europe . two major changes to the italian political landscape have been made in the election campaign , which has not yet become more important .
one of the hardest things i can learn from senior government officials - including me , when i was a general general general general and foreign minister - is futility , in all cases , only a small part of cases , and i try to indict those responsible for leaks . the original damage is not removed , and it usually compounds it with other publicity . the media is never more enthusiastic about freedom of speech than when they see that they are flushed with anger or humiliation . the prosecution usually strengthens the position of the leakers , and it is unnecessary to dissuade them . but some lines need to be drawn if the good government is to be possible , as well as the privacy of our personal and family lives , is essential to maintain the relationship that matters to us .
clearly , there are no brexit forms - or post-brexit britain - that would satisfy both groups . this explains the desperate despair of the man who is trying to push through the brexit as quickly as possible . he wants to get out before voters realise that the campaign for vacation has sold them a false account of the goods , including the promise that they will keep all benefits from membership in the eu eu eu eu area , especially for the full access of the single european market , without the need to let them free the movement of labor . moreover , even though she was in a " remain " camp during the referendum campaign , she realizes that as a prime minister , she will be responsible for all the failures in the negotiations on the basis of the negotiations . he also knows he ca n't succeed politically , as the media will always focus " defeats , " and he barely notices " wins . "
these surveys should , among other things , clearly show the risk factors such as alcohol and illicit drugs , non-safe sexual behaviour , violence , obesity , physical inactivity , and unhealthy diet . in order to complement this effort , we must also invest in improving the understanding of the risks that are most commonly studied in the context of early childhood and adulthood , which affect the health of adolescents . according to the overall burden of disease study , health risk factors explain at least 50 % of the early death and disability of adults over and over . more studies are needed to inform health policy and to properly prepare the plan . the data collection effort should also include a focus on mental health issues in the area of data collection .
today , pakistan is a troubled country , politically , and economically , but also economically . but the talk of regime change may have prompted the musharraf to return to politics . only a politician who supports the main constituencies can hope to restore political and economic health . so , in a long interview with the bbbc , musharraf suggested that the pakistani military was the only institution that could have saved the country from its current oes . " there 's a sense of despondency in pakistan , and the place where people go is military , " he said .
politicians have effectively rewarded myopic thinking , western democracies are seeking to ensure stable long-term growth , so that authoritarian china is not . in a democratic context , at least two ways of addressing this problem are needed . first , governments could be more bound by their predecessors " policy decisions . this way , more forward-looking legislation , which has been debated and approved , will actually be time to implement the measures without the risk that subsequent administration will simply cancel them . the european union provides an example of how long binding commitments can be carried out .
this is the beginning of the political will and the determination of the priorities of the negotiations . in the wake of the incheon , the nobel prize for peace in the nobel laureate kailash satyarthi called for a mass popular movement , demanding that education be placed on the agenda of every politician who runs for elections , at all levels of government . for the sake of operational skills , education must be given higher accounts at national and global levels . the statement of incheons requires that the total public expenditure is allocated at least 15-20 % of total public expenditure . moreover , the continued decline in education must be reversed , and new financial resources must be mobilised , such as donors in emerging economies , private sectors , foundations and philanthropists .
the current rate of refinance of ukraine is 16 % per year , 10 % below inflation , meaning that ukraine has a negative real interest rate of 10 % per year . as a result , the supply of ukraine 's money , m3 , was at least 52 % last year , which meant inflation was soon 30 % . nbu 's leadership understands that it must act as a measure of inflation , but its insistence on the peg is bound by their hands , since it prevents them from increasing interest rates . instead , they returned to strict requirements for the provision of reserves , effectively rationing credit , and thus causing domestic credit to squeeze in the current international financial crisis , which could cause some medium-sized banks to fail because of the problems with liquidity . the rationing is always worse than the market , but it is not a good reason .
the first concern is the irish politics and ongoing power struggle in the regime - and the fight that once led to diplomatic solutions , as neither conservatives nor reformers were willing to afford the president 's mahmoud ahmadinejad diplomatic triumph . we can only hope that , given the seriousness of the situation , this route will be shut down . the development of syria , the last ally remaining in the region , is equally likely to play a role . the fall of president bashar al-assad 's regime would be a strategic debacle for the iran , which would then be faced with a united front of the states of the arab , supported by turkey , us and , in a way , by israel . it would be difficult to maintain an iran foothold in lebanon , and , despite its shia majority , it would be even more complex .
the approach of the eu to sharing power , the closure of agreements and solutions to conflicts by several committees may be frustrating and lacks drama , but it is increasingly important for many issues in the network and interdependence . as a representative of the european council on foreign relations , mark leonard said : " the conventional wisdom is that the hour of the euro has come and disappeared . the lack of vision , division , obsession with legal frameworks , unwillingness to design military power , and the sclerotic economy is contrary to the united states , which are more dominant than me ... but the problem is not europe 's - it is our outdated understanding of power . " america 's political scientist andrew moravcsik , in a similar way , argues that europe 's nations , individually and collectively , are the only states that can " exert global influence throughout the spectrum from " hard " to " soft " to " soft " power . if the term retains any meaning , the world is bipolar , and it is likely to remain in the foreseeable future . "
tehran - the irish will go to the polls on june 12 , and they will elect a new president . while some argue that president mahmoud ahmadinejad 's re-election is a foregone conclusion , the outcome is not clear . the leader of iran , ayatollah ali khamenei , has repeatedly said he will not be able to express his preference to the candidates . indeed , in the mascot on the twenty-year-old march , ayatollah khamenei said : " there were rumors that i support a special candidate for the presidential election . but i have one voice and i would n't choose a candidate because people should choose their candidates themselves , based on their own knowledge . "
however , this is offset by restrictions on deductions and exemptions from personal taxes , and lower tax rates on personal income will increase the income tax , as individuals increase profits and pay the benefits from marginal benefits to taxable income . similarly , the move to the territorial tax system will increase the taxable profit , in particular in the short term , since companies will repatriate some of the existing foreign stocks . although net tax changes can increase the budget deficit in the short term , the incentive effects of lower tax revenues and higher capital accumulation will be faster , and real income will be higher , both of which will lead to a reduction in income and long-term deficit . there is a significant legal reason for the future return of the planned budget to surplus . the republicans have only a very small majority in the senate , where the rule of law of the five states requires the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority to pass the legislation , which allows democrats to block the republican tax agenda .
the instead must also revive its operation of sophie 's initiative to combat smuggling of refugees in the mediterranean . second , the eurozone must act separately with economic immigrants and asylum seekers . the combination of these asylum systems has brought an early collapse ; their separation would help to ensure that people who fear their lives can be fairly heard in which they are protected . in order to address the real economic and social needs , economic migrants need to be effectively blue or green cards , and immigration is overall target . and politicians must not wait for the next migration crisis to be put in place .
will the gradual reduction in the volume of feed bring more problems with emerging markets this year ? what are today 's conditions comparable to those that triggered the asian crisis in 1997 , or other sudden reversals in the capital flow in recent decades ? emerging-market bulls point out that the majority of countries that have a major middle-income economy have significantly reduced their share of public debt / gdp , and they have given them fiscal space , which they have never had before . but neither the mexican " tequila crisis " of 1994 nor the 1997 asian crisis caused considerable public finances . in both cases , the effort to defend a fixed exchange rate in the light of the reversals in the capital flow was a major factor , as in turkey , which was the case before the fall of the currency in february 2001 .
many people in the 1950s and sixties would like to continue to work economically , perhaps twenty to thirty hours a week . young people , too , are long in the field of education , leisure , friends and , above all , children . both wishes can be met if the company allows older people to work for years and allow them to work less . one option is to move to an average working week of 25 hours and an average working life , which is 70 years old - and even higher age , if the expected life expectancy is higher . such reforms could be implemented for decades , without slowing economic growth or reducing prosperity .
it is the commitment that the government is bound by now , and that is why it is not necessary . " bouncing " britain is simply impossible to do with the word " bouncing . " the british public opinion is now so hostile to the euro , especially for the euro , that the referendum could not be won without a massive government campaign . denmark 's government has done it , and it seems to be bringing the danish public to join the euro . the prime minister 's statement of objections is clearly convinced that it is necessary to join the euro , but since the yes vote in the referendum is now unlikely to be tried .
the middle of the scenarios considered by the intergovernmental panel on climate change projects , which will reach nearly three times higher than the concentration of the atmospheric co2 in the pre-industrial phase of 2100 , is considered . while the bush administration is skeptical about these projections , some state and local governments are implementing measures to reduce co2 emissions . more importantly , companies such as electric power are committed to green targets that are beyond government regulations . the recent report of the bipartisan national energy commission exemplifies the coalition . while the president of the bush argues that technological advances in hydrogen fuel and fuel cells will limit oil imports in the long term , these measures require significant changes in transport infrastructure , which will require decades .
in the end , people in this area are purchased and sold by managers of companies , as well as people in technical fields . no one will make it all the way to the top of the world of business . it is important for students to remember that they should motivate themselves to gain deep understanding , not to keep their memory , to the subjects they study , to carry out the role of a real expert in any area they choose . they should also invest in obtaining communications skills that will be equally important to successful employment . such an education is likely to mean that it is interesting and interesting , whether it is financial or physiology .
but today , it is also about delivering a message for elizabeth and other women like her : abortion is a matter of political wedge in many countries , but it is simply a matter of life . 25 % of pregnancy are cancelled each year - approximately 56 million people . abortions occur in all countries and within each class of social economic activity . 61 % of patients with abortions are 20 , 59 % already have mothers , and nearly two-thirds of them have a common religion . but abortion is most common in developing countries , where access to family planning is often limited .
the ecb should not be deluding itself in the belief that a small increase in interest rates will be enough . if the pressure on salaries is rising , the ecb , if it is to remain true , can be forced to increase interest rates much more than it is now expected . the second argument is that if the executive firm is in a position to maintain an interest rate , workers will not demand higher nominal wages , as they will understand that this would only lead to higher interest rates and higher unemployment . this argument is not irrelevant ; monetary policy is likely to affect wage bargaining . but you should n't expect too much from a tough ecb 's stance , do you ?
megaupload allowed 180 million registered users to upload and download films , television shows and music , and some of the money obtained by the dotcom ( advertising and subscriptions ) was on display at his house near the airport , where he kept his records on the list and other exotic cars . dotcom 's lawyer claims that megaupload was only providing storage for subscribers , and he did not control what he was storing . but megaupload offers cash rewards for users who have uploaded files that have been popular with other users . last month , the united states considered the legislation aimed at stopping piracy on the internet . the bills were written on the urging hollywood studios and publishing and recording industries , claiming the copyright violations on the internet cost 100,000 jobs .
moscow - when the ceremonial opening of the beijing olympic games begins in a few days , viewers will be accompanied by a minutiful choreographed spectacle of nationalist kitsch . of course , images that remember hitler 's strike strike by the hitler are the last thing china 's leaders have ever thought of for their olympics , and , after all , official chinese nationalism proclaims the country 's " peaceful rise " in the idyll of " harmonious development . " but , both aesthetically and politically , the parallel is not too much of a fetched one . indeed , the son of hitler 's favourite architect and designer of the berlin olympics of 1936 , who designed the main plan for the beijing game , was referring to the radical rendition of aesthetics , which was the hallmark of the totalitarianism of the eth-century . china 's leaders , whether fascist or communist , sought to transform public space and sports events into visible evidence of their fitness and mandate .
if anything , economists have gained the role since then . however , the subject has also reduced its legitimacy and credibility . many citizens are no longer seeing economists asking questions about the right , or are seeking to answer them honestly . economic growth must be more open to criticism of assumptions , methods and results . the inconvenient truths that are spoken by the dissenting voices can not be ignored indefinitely .
the united states is counting on psychologically unstable president , plutocratic cabinet and republicans in congress . europe is in a situation where there are many economic , social , political , and institutional crises . china , on the other hand , is dynamic and outward-looking - providing a good reason for the firm leadership and constructive partnership with china on key initiatives ( e.g. , sustainable infrastructure across eurasia ) . in short , this is a critical time for the germans and the euro to provide vision , stability and leadership in the world . and this imperative is for chancellor angelo merkel 's christian democratic union ( cdu ) , a party of her bavarian sister , a christian social union and a spd .
in keeping with china 's recent efforts to design its " soft " side , the opening ceremony was the idea of historical , but dynamic culture . apart from the presence of several people 's soldiers in the liberation army , you would be very difficult to find any visible evidence of the communist regime or its founder , mao zedong . the same significant projection of china was a nascent leader of a new international cultural order . the stadium " bird nest " was the creation of a multinational design team of herzog & de meuron with proposals from a visual artist ai weiwei . many artists who participated in the creation of the spectacle , including fireworks , cai guo qiang , dancing stars shen wei and composer tan dun , earned their fame in the west .
my research , which included thousands of interviews with women from india to burkina faso , focused on one question : how can international communities improve the welfare of the poorest women in the world ? the answer is to help them do what they 've done on their own . one of the most effective ways to make women anywhere , especially in developing countries , is to promote financial independence . in many areas , this means supporting informal savings groups , networks of women with similar brains who pay contributions to build a common source . this money can then be used to finance any number of items such as small business costs , school fees or health care costs .
so the outcome of the summit was far from a miracle , and it was n't . what really mattered to heiligendamm was not the decision taken by any interim government in the world , but the fact that the days of the eight seemed to be numbered . china and india are now more important than some members of the european parliament . indeed , europe should understand that this point is spreading around the world , especially on the other side of the atlantic . president putin 's behavior at the summit clearly showed what he thought of the europeans .
the leaders of african are entitled to be concerned about the situation in the past . although the epas are based on the fact that the epas will strengthen afcfta , the preliminary research suggests that the gains in trade resulting from the approved epas will be concentrated on several agricultural products and the exclusion of the least developed countries . in most areas , epas will actually hurt trade within africa , weakening trade revenues and undermining industrial activities in africa . some argue that the problem is more about timing , as losses are likely to occur immediately , and that the benefits that increased access to the eu market will take longer . in the light of this , the epa advocates claim that a special fund should be set up to compensate for some short-term losses .
for example , in 1995 , the smithsonian institution in washington wanted to look at enola gay again , the plane that dropped the atomic bomb on the hiroshima . john dower , american historian and specialist in modern japan , finally studied the issue . he has shown how history can be presented and valued in a completely different way : from america or japan , even if no one is making facts or falsifying resources . the selection and combination of data is sufficient , and the data is not sufficiently collected . for americans , it was a heroic or triumphant statement in which atomic bombs represent the final blow to aggressive fanatical and fierce enemies .
it would have to be cobbled together at the ocpean council meeting of 17 , where europe 's leaders are increasingly frustrated by the process . moreover , johnny has already canceled the civil service team leading the previous negotiations . any new agreement can be done with a couple of bells and whistles . he will push real problems down the road , not end the debate about brexit . the show has to run for years , and it 's going to be over .
nor did we have the ability to stop the syrian president from bashar al-assad 's war crimes against his people , so there was nothing left for him and ian to fill . europe 's leaders are often shouting out of the way when they should be on the field and defend common interests in europe . and as if our lack of stability in our neighborhood was not enough , we also allowed the right-wing populist and nationalist movement to be taken out of the eurozone . these moves , actively fominated by russia , have produced domestic political leaders who are frighteningly - but not surprisingly - similar to putin and erdoan . in fact , the leader of poland , jarosław kaczyć and hungarian prime minister vktor orbán , was busily building illiberal states .
a common framework must also be created in order to increase and implement these programs in different contexts . for example , the provision of benefits " points , " rather than money denominated in a particular currency , would allow schemes to operate across borders at a time when workers need to be increasingly needed . and standardized education credentials would retain their value if they moved to those who deserved them . as a consequence of changes in the nature of the work , the nature of the benefits system must be changed . in order to ensure the opportunities and security of all , all over the world , in the context of a general technological interruption , governments and private sector actors must cooperate in order to develop innovative solutions that meet the urgent and evolving needs of workers .
moreover , even without a timely correction , the brain will respond to a crisis that is far from being treated as a mexico . rightly or wrong , mexican politicians were in awe of the streets of the wall ; the brazil did not have such a thing . in the end , brazilian politicians are concerned about their own good being , not about the prosperity of foreign investors . if , and when the two parts are done , the brazilian politicians will shed tears for international investors . on the surface and below , the brazil has dramatic developments : inflation is reduced to a negligible extent .
by integrating carbon reduction strategies into agriculture and soil conservation , more heat capture gases can be added to forests and soils . but , while there are already techniques , it is necessary to increase the use of agricultural resources , to adopt the principles of permaculture , to better manage wetlands and to use rotational grazing techniques , among other measures . the power of markets to drive radical changes in energy and land use is a great thing , but as 2017 storm season reminds us , the necessary climate change is needed . the transformation of the way people acquire and consume energy and use of land will require strong incentives and policy frameworks to be successful . but do n't despair : there 's still time to save the climate , and i 'm not going to let you know .
many democratic candidates have called for a major expansion of health care provided by the government . but their proposals - a system of one payer ( " medicare for all " ) , national health services , or something else - do n't mean the same . several contestants - including bernie sanders , elizabeth corridor , kamala harris and beto o'rourke - do not agree entirely about the details of these plans , or simply do n't write them out . but after the former president barack obama attempted to fix the american disaster in the area of health care with half the measures - perhaps the most politically possible - those who were eager for democratic nomination have more ambitious plans . meanwhile , warren proposed introducing universal childcare services to finance a wealth tax on the property above $ 50 million .
but there is another explanation that fully complies with rationality and self-interest . when mainstream politicians lose credibility , voters have to cut their promises . voters are more likely to be attracted to candidates who have an credentials to build anti-establishment , and they can be expected to depart from the prevailing policies . centrist politicians face an asymmetric information problem in economists . they claim to be reformers , but why should voters believe leaders who do n't look different from politicians who have sold them the benefits of globalization and poor people ?
today , leaders in rwanda , who are widely regarded as african 's success , have improved stability by moving away from the consensus on the management of washington . political , political , and political are strong , disciplined and organized . the reelection of president paul kagame last year was more important than democracy . although kagame is still popular , his government has been criticized for stifling speech and human rights during the election . the conclusion is not that human rights do not matter , but that political discipline and imperfect forms of democracy are acceptable if tradeoff is sustained in economic and institutional governance .
cross-border flows of goods , information , people and capital , which are the blood of the population , depend on the threshold of security , stability and predictability . it 's a threshold that seems to be in danger , and it 's not going to happen . in developing countries , economic progress is needed to prevent local and regional conflicts from causing systemic shocks . in terms of priorities , it is more important for the g-20 governments to strengthen the basic systems that allow global flows than to address economic issues . moreover , there is a clear shared interest in this : no one benefits from the expansion of systemic risks .
washington , dc - participants in the movement of walls on the street are right to argue that large banks have never been properly investigated for mortgage origination , aggregation and securitization , which is a central factor in the financial crisis - and that they have lost more than eight million jobs . but thanks to the efforts of the attorney-general of new york , eric schneiderman and others began to discuss serious matters in the united states about the settlement of mortgage settlement between the state 's attorney and the main financial firms . the talks between state officials , the ama administration and banks are currently focused on reported abuse in mortgage lending , stopping housing and avoiding their residents . but leading banks are also accused of illegal behaviour - for example , they induce people to borrow interest rates that would actually be paid , while they would be misrepresented by the resulting mortgage securities . if these allegations are true , the bank 's leadership may be afraid that civil rights would reveal evidence that could be used in criminal proceedings .
" across the river and the road , and along countless paths of the jungle , the population of east pakistan continues to bleed to death : an endless stream of refugees with several tin barrels , cardboard boxes , and tattered clothes , carrying sick children and old men . they walk barefoot , the mud sucking on their heels . they are silent , except for the child who occasionally whimperes , but their faces tell the story . many of them are sick , and they are covered with sores , and many are sick of it . there are cholera , and when they die on the road , no one will bury them . "
the charges for manipulation of currency and threats to protectionist measures have increased , and the number of charges has increased . with uk , which allowed the world to trade freely in the 1940s , when they decided to go alone , the atlantic charter allies now have a national sovereignty before the global public . now the global spotlight is turning into a france , and its presidential election is looming . at stake , it is a sputtering franco-german engine that has driven europe 's integration and kept it in the middle of a multilateral system after the war . the victory for the pen in the early stages of the election would be spell out , and the german chancellor anela merkel would remain as the last pillar of the crumbling world order .
in new york - when i was an eight-year-old grader with a bright eye in my native country , i could n't wait for my first class of sex . in the early teens , classmates and i were curious about sex and sexuality . but instead of getting reliable answers to the pressing questions about our bodies , relationships and sexuality , we were simply handed a book , we read a chapter and left it to be our own . millions of young people have similar experiences , often with serious adverse reactions . after the targeted killing of the second most powerful leader of ian , we could find no other way to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to further provocations of the irish .
after all , ian and we have been in war for decades , and none of the parties are interested in an uncontrolled military escalation . as in previous years , the syndicate of the project asked its commentators to offer their best estimates of events and trends that define the next 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it will be considered that the current current situation will be weighed in 2020 for many years . regardless of how facebook 's own digital currency was shot , libra , and prices , it was already a wake-up call for companies and politicians around the world . " if there is a revolution , let 's rather take it than pass it , " said otto von bismarck .
four decades after the " nixon shock , " no one has argued that china has benefited significantly today , the impoverished and autumn country that nixon has visited is history . global reintegration has turned china into an economic power station , and it is a great deal of power . it is the world 's biggest exporter in terms of volume and is the world 's second largest economy . china 's presence is everywhere , from mines to africa to apple stores in the united states . as we are considering china 's remarkable progress since 1972 , it is also appropriate to consider how china is still in a short period of time in overcoming systemic obstacles to long-term success .
a significant slowdown in chinese is likely to be a slow slowdown . we , president donald trump , have shaken confidence in the trade war , but this is just a step toward the economy that has slowed , as it has caused the transition from export and investment growth to a more sustainable growth in domestic consumption . the question of how much the chinese economy will slow down is open , but , given the contradiction between the centralized political system with a focus on party-led , and the need for a more devolved economy with a focus on consumers , long-term growth could be significantly reduced . unfortunately , the possibility of avoiding growth in consumption and continuing to promote exports and real estate investment is not very attractive . china is already a dominant exporter , and there is no market space or political tolerance for its previous export expansion .
the arab world faces serious problems that can only be faced with more flexible democratic systems . the second report on human development , issued in 2003 , highlights the close relationship between the shortcomings in education and lack of democracy . democracy requires an informed citizen capable of asking questions about his government , and he will not be able to do so . a well-educated citizen is also indispensable if young men and women are able to acquire the skills needed to carry out the world 's global and competitive demands . unfortunately , instead of progress , we see a cycle of inadequate educational opportunities that lead to a lack of economic opportunities .
the president threatened to destroy the turkey economy if he did what he could . the security council , with kurds - mostly civilians - has kept quiet , and the european union has condemned everything and everyone involved . as a disaster with foreign policy , this is one of the record books in the book . but the seeds of this larger fire were sown long before the notorious trump-erdoan call . without a coherent policy , conditions have been ripe for the crisis , and the situation has not been consistent .
but a program of helicopter money - a fantastic idea when milton friedman proposed it in 1969 - would also be a radical departure for policymakers , which would require a considerable caution in the perception of citizens and investors , confidence and firm governance structures . and such an approach would strengthen the idea that central bank policy is the only game in the city , which will relieve elected government leaders of their responsibility for pro-growth policies and fiscal decisions they control . a less risky and time-tested way to stimulate demand would be a significant increase in public investment in infrastructure financed by public debt . it is well documented that europe and the united states have invested in infrastructure in the area of transport . from a macroeconomic point of view , infrastructure investment is a " double " - it is exacerbating productivity and competitiveness in the long term , and in the long term , demand , production , and employment is increasing , with a significant multiplier effect .
the government is losing 4.5 billion dollars a year by subsidizing passenger fares , spending little on improving infrastructure , improving security standards , or speeding up trains . as a result , railways have exhausted money before they run out of plans . in the last 30 years , only 317 of 676 projects have been completed , and it is difficult to imagine how the railway will receive an estimated $ 30 billion needed to complete the remaining 359 projects . and if it was n't enough , india 's leadership did n't seem to recognize the challenges posed by the railways . in a country where the passengers ca n't even expect a clean toilet , let alone a time of arrival , prime minister narendra modi has spoken of the introduction of bullet trains - the latest of which is in a series of irrationally grandiose desires .
in federalism - whether cooperative or " uncooperative " - it is often assumed that state and local governments are pursuing the same objectives . in fact , there is a deep gap between the " blue " cities , which are left leaning on the left , and the right-leaning " red " states in which many are located . and there are many ways to prevent progressive federalism at the municipal level . cities often lack information and resources needed to develop and implement effective policies . several organizations have now emerged to strengthen the capacity of city governments to make policies , including michael bloomberg 's innovation program , the fuse corps , the results of the us , the social finance , the third capital partners , and the use of usafacts .
we need to look beyond these figures and find out who is responsible for the omenting of political climate , where blatant lies , explicit racism , and bigotry have entered the mainstream public debate . only if we find out which source of vile viruses is now affected by our democracies , we can take practical steps to quarantine them . let 's start with a " patient zero " policy plague : rupert murdoch . for decades , this impresario of the right-wing entertainment complex has exacerbated politics in uk and in us - not to mention its native australia - for profit and political influence . murdoch 's newspaper and television stations could also patented the recipe for a deceptive policy that drove trump out of the way and the brexit vote .
