another aspect of the pivot involves moving away from the middle east . but no amount of fancy footwork , whether pivoting or pirouetting , can lessen that region ’s importance . the middle east would remain the central pillar of world energy for a decade to come . whether it can ultimately export more energy than instability is the key question . unlike east asia , the middle east remains a region in turmoil , the complex of which defies analytical consensus . do the region ’s crises stem from its lack of peace with israel ?
that deterrence logic produces snowball effects . with russia and the us holding 18,000 in the world ’s current stockpile of 19,000 nuclear weapons , it becomes impossible to persuade any of the other nuclear-armed states to reduce their own ( much smaller ) arsenals until the large two make further drastic cuts to theirs . china shares russia ’s concern about us conventional and missile-defense superiority and is increasing and modernizing its estimated 240-weapon stockpile . with china taking that course , india – outside the npt , yet with 100 of its own arms – feels the need to add to its own arsenal . and pakistan then becomes even more determined to attempt to keep ahead of india .
two centuries later , that was no longer the case : by the late nineteenth century , median living standards in britain and other countries to which the industrial revolution spread were first , light-years above any neo-malthusian benchmark of subsistence living . early industrial-era economic accomplishments occurred despite a loss to the substantial proportion of the national income to support a corrupt , decadent , and profligate aristocracy . they occurred despite a tripling of the populist who place exceptional malthusian pressures on the economy underlying the natural resource base and despite mobilization of an unprecedented proportion of national income in nearly a century of intensive war against france , the power with three times britain ’s population . how , exactly , did these accomplishments occur ?
the outcome of the referendum has had little effect on the wider global landscape , with the impact on eu institutions just yet another crisis to be managed , rather than on an existential implosion that london-centric british newspapers imagine . might not be in a rush to act ; nor is german chancellor angela merkel ( although confronting re-election next year increasingly desperate french president françois hollande saying that he is ) . may , as tight-lipped as cameron is an open ( if empty ) book , has already shaped the institutional skeleton of her own political strategy . her government has created an international trade department , which is to blame for drawing on trade arrangements with the eu and the rest of the world ( the european commission has been handling such arrangements earlier ) . another new department , the so-called brexit ministry , will handle political , judicial , and constitutional negotiations .
venezuela has been trying to finance itself with the assistance from the china development bank , which has imposed no kind of conditionality that imf bashers dislike . instead , the db lends itself on secrecy terms , for uses that are undisclosed and corrupt , with built-in privileges for companies in areas like telecoms ( huawei ) , appliances ( haier ) , cars ( chery ) , and oil drilling ( ictv ) . the chinese have not required that venezuela do anything to increase the likelihood that it regains creditworthiness . they simply demand more oil as collateral . whatever the imf ’s faults , the cdb is an embarrassment .
it was one television advertisement who told me that all of the low-rent cynicism of tea party-driven campaign . it featured two clip of obama saying , “ i ’ve worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass legislation , ” with “ what i ’ve been getting out of reach ” to senator dick lugar . the context was not explained , but what obama has said at full is this : “ i have worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass a law that ensures and annihilates certain of the world ’s deadliest , unguarded weapons , ” and , “ what i ’ve achieved to senator dick lugar , a republican who can help lock down loose nuclear weapons . ” with lugar ’s defeat , and the simultaneous exits from recent republican moderates like senator olympia snowe of maine , prepared to put national interests ahead of partisanship , the senate is unlikely to produce the 60 votes it needs to ratify another us-russia arms-control treaty , they should be negotiated . moreover , the comprehensive nuclear-test ban treaty to replace a fragile
maybe he will be imprisoned for assisting terrorists , but his betrayal generates little resentment . secure states are prone to forgetting treason ; he is also a crime that is not . insecure states are quicker to sense acts of betrayal , either . the soviets , with their fragile legitimacy , always feared betrayal . they called their crime izmena rodine – betrayal of the motherland – and married this high moral language to minor transgressions , like leaving the country illegally .
but there is no comparable protest against the use of antipsychotic drugs , which have similarly been forcibly forced on people – and even used to torture prisoners . and , while few people now acquire involuntarily in the first place , and in all cases consent , a large and growing number of people get anti-psychotic drugs under false pretences , including children , vulnerable adults , alzheimer ’s patients , and host others whose lives have been shortened with treatments , with no efforts taken to seek consent . though ect ’s opponents believe that this causes pain in brain-related drugs , this is hard to prove . like antipsychotic drugs , antidepressants , and tranquilizers , ect has an immediate organic effect . but , while ect rarely causes clear clinical evidence of brain damage , and shows little or no such in animal studies as anti-psychotic drugs periodically do , in the form of tardive dyskinesia and other “ alt-right ” drugs .
new york – us trade negotiators in singapore have recently failed to finalize a deal on the long-awaited trans-pacific partnership ; will soon have another chance to complete what would be the world ’s largest regional free-trade agreement . but , given serious concern that the tpp fails to weigh important human-rights implications , there is no cause for celebration . the tpp talks involve the united states , canada , and the ten other pacific rim countries , which together account for roughly $ 26 trillion of annual output , or roughly 40 % of global gdp . their economic clout compares with their aspirations ; the talks go beyond traditional trade issues , which account for only five of the 29 proposed chapters ; consider a wide range of investment and regulatory issues affecting many millions – and not always positively . whether trade liberalization generally helps or harms the most vulnerable is a complicated question .
the exciting thing about an open education is that free access is only just the beginning in the first place . open-learning promises to transform the current textbook production pipeline into a vast dynamic knowledge-based ecosystem , one that is in constant state of creation , usage , reuse , and improves . open learning promises to provide children with learning materials tailored for their individual needs in contrast to what today ’s “ off the rack ” materials combined with quicker feedback loops that match learning results more directly with content development and upgrading . and open education promises new approaches to collaborative learning that leverage social interactions between students and teachers worldwide . late last year , in cape town i joined delegates from around the world to achieve a consensus on open education ideals and approaches , and committed ourselves to them in cape town open education declaration ( nmd ) , launched officially on january 22 .
what , in his view , is the boundaries of america ’s engagement ? under what conditions would america use its capabilities ? nearly 70 years ago , when george orwell examined the tendency toward ambiguity , he offered the rather straightforward explanation that “ the political speech and writing are largely defensible . ” in other words , hazy language is needed to obscure unsavory realities . massive violence against civilian populations is “ pacification , ” and ethnic cleansing is a “ transfer of population . ”
brussels – to many people in the west , china seems to have gone out of a country that “ keeps cool head , and maintain low-profile profile status , ” in deng xiaoping ’s formulation ; to one that loves good international bust-up . putting australian mining executive behind bars for ten years squeezing out google , keeps the european union at bay for important dialogue ; and letting a mid-level official wag his finger at us president barack obama at the copenhagen climate summit , after all , is the best way to persuade its partners of your constructive intentions . and , indeed , it is reassuring to remember that , up to now , china has stubbornly watering sanctions against iran , investing in major offensive military systems , and pillorizing western leaders for irresponsible financial policies and protectionism . but the point in reciting this litany is not so much to highlight china ’s wayward behavior as it is to demonstrate the dilemma in which the country finds itself : if it behaves like the “ normal ” powers , the world will forget the many
to the extent that that this continues , europe will lose influence in world affairs , and gradually become irrelevant . fortunately , experience in the 1980s suggests a way forward . the international situation at the time was no less dangerous . yet we succeeded in ameliorating it – and not only normalizing relations but ending the cold war confrontation itself . this was accomplished primarily through dialogue .
these factors help explain why the digital economy has been given a huge share of firms , which are badly needed for labor . and once these firms are established and dominate their chosen market , the new economy allows them to pursue anti-competitive measures that prevent real and potential rivals from challenging their positions . and , as the economists david autor , david dorn , lawrence f. katz , christina pattersons , and john van reenen show , america ’s fastest-growing market concentration industries have also seen the largest drop in labor ’s share of income . this heightened market concentration is widening the gap between companies owned by robots ( capital ) and those of robots replacing ( labor ) . but confronting it will require us to reinvent antitrust to the digital age .
and what must be thank for all of this european progress ? do we owe it to the wisdom on which european political leaders , particularly that of merkel ’s so-called merkozy “ odd few ” and french president nicolas sarkozy ? sadly , not : progress has led almost exclusively to pressure from the much-maligned financial markets . just as italy ’s former prime minister silvio berlusconi was brought down not by political opponents but by jittery investors , it was markets rather than european leaders that opened the door to a european fiscal and political union . that is no cause for celebration .
and if multiple currencies all depreciate against the american dollar , the consequent impact on american manufacturing industries could slow the american economy , undercutting its import demand , and thereby hurting word exporters . projections for america ’s economic growth have been revised downward significantly since the us federal reserve ’s interest-rate hike in december . depressed equity markets and falling bond yields worldwide in january 2016 illustrate the global nature of the problem the us now faces . demand remains depressed with the debt overhang accumulated before 2008 . true , this pre-2008 debt has not gone away ; it has simply shifted between sectors and countries .
paris – us president donald trump has shaken a transatlantic alliance that has long seemed shakable . in a january interview , he labeled nato “ obsolete , ” and a “ vehicle for europe for germany . ” the eu would soon crumble , predicting a succession of countries after the united kingdom out of the eu . the united states , his position suggests , would be more than fine . with trump , the world has become accustomed to shocking statements , shameless reversals .
those who survived so far only barely barely reduced output mostly to the ex-soviet market . russia has the know-how , skilled engineering , and natural-resource bases to become global competitor in many major high-tech industries , including nuclear energy , commercial aviation , commercial space technologies ( including satellites and gps ) , ict hardware , and software , electric vehicles , high-speed rail , petrochemicals , and heavy equipment to the mining and hydrocarbon industries . all these industries will benefit from the potential for tremendous demand growth in large markets , such as china , africa , and india . but achieving long-term led growth through high-tech industries requires a entrepreneurial environment that encourages private investment , including openness from foreign players . furthermore , a high-tech labor and political environment needs to be conducive to a high-tech labor force , providing the attractive quality of life , ensuring civil liberties , and nurturing entrepreneurship and creativity .
of course , the situation is not being slashed and dried out . reversing public investment affects the presence , or the absence of complementary reforms , that vary from country to country . and there is some potential for abuse , with expenditures misclassified as investment . yet , in an environment of low long-term interest rates and deficient short-term aggregate demand ( which meant that there is little risk of crowding out the private sector ) , it is a mistake not to relax fiscal constraints on investment . in fact , the right kind of public investment would likely spur more private-sector investment .
a central theme in such tv programs is not that women ’s leading roles are played . character , not gender , drives narrative . outside the united states , women have already reached their highest level in power . in germany , german chancellor angela merkel , having won three general elections , adhere or resented her austerity policies , not her gender-driven approach . argentina ’s president cristina fernández de kirchner is attacked for mismanaging the economy , and by america ’s banking interest in forcing a debt restructuring on her country ’s creditors rather than because she is a woman .
bernanke has emphasized that these two policies are on separate tracks , reacting to different indicators of the economy ’s performance . the federal open market committee ( fomc ) , comprising the fed ’s governors and regional federal reserve bank presidents , has agreed that the federal funds rate will remain at its current near-zero level until the unemployment rate has fallen to 6.5 % , and can be expected to stay there or fall further . with unemployment now at 7.6 % and falling only slowly , the fed may not be ready to raise the federal funds rate until 2015 . but there are caveats that make this forward guidance ambiguous – and thus uninformative – in the us . the fed warns that it might push the federal funds rate up when the fed expects its annual inflation rate to rise from its current level of slightly smaller than 2 % to above 2.5 % .
and with housing , healthcare , and education far less accessible today than at the end of the 1980 ’s , his political program is targeting what was supposed to do to improve russia ’s human capital – key problems holding back russia ’s economy . according to prokhorov , in russia productivity per se , the ratio in the us amounts to only 6-10 % of the economy struggles even when the price of oil , its main export , is peaking . two million educated professionals , most recently , emigrated in russia in the last 20 years . during the last 20 years , social inequality has grown threefold . russia , prokhorov concludes , is a feudal society , with putin ’s political monopolistic and economic mismanagement exacerbating the so-called “ natural-resource curse ” afflicting many oil-exporting countries .
it is important that the united states ( ideally joined by any other country ) recognize that any action to place itself on a field of nuclear weapons after 15 years , however not explicitly precluded by the accord , will not be tolerated . harsh sanctions , which would be introduced at the first sign that iran is preparing a post-jcpoa breakout ; that , too , is not precluded by an agreement . iran should likewise be informed that america and its allies are committing a preemptive military strike if it appeared seeking to present the world , with a fait accompli . a world erred in allowing north korea to pass the nuclear threshold ; it should not make that same mistake once again . meanwhile , a major effort is needed to assuage iran ’s concerns about its neighbors , several in the process tempted to hedge their bets against iran ’s breakout potential in 15 years by pursuing its own nuclear programs .
short-term exchange-rate movements are no way to judge the underlying force of the currency in the future . longer-term trends in how the money is used internationally – especially as a store of value for foreign investors or central banks – are a much more telling thing . against the coming years , rather than just the coming years , it will almost certainly be bad for trump ’s election in the us . for starters , the dollar has shot up in the election just since trump vowed to enact deep tax cuts and ramp up spending on decaying infrastructure and america ’s supposedly “ depleted ” army . that will boost near-term economic growth , and inevitably push interest rates up .
but that happy outlook for may rests on one crucial assumption : that the march 29 brexit deadline will leave unchanged . european leaders might easily neutralize may ’s threat of no-deal brexit , and therefore eliminate whatever need to offer the concessions she demands . to do just that , they must understand the method behind may ’s maddening strategy of indecision and lag . throughout her political career , may has used procrastination as a winning strategy . as home secretary , she often won battles against other ministers simply by refusing to express her views or even to appear in meetings until minutes before the final decision had to be made .
and it ranks 58th for institutional quality , owing to excessive government regulations , opaque corporate governance , and policy instability . finally , service-sector productivity amounts to just 45 % that in the manufacturing sector , on average , was in contrast to the oecd average of 90 % . the problem is most acute in finance , real estate , business services , and the government , as well as in communities and services . externally , south korea is highly vulnerable to the escalating north korean nuclear-armed threat . in the past couple of months , north korea has fired several ballistic missiles , and has conducted a nuclear test , spurring exchange of incendiary rhetoric among north korean leader kim jong-un and us president donald trump .
it is not sustainable to smolensk oblast live under constitutional democracy , while grozny and sukhumi citizens are the victims of wanton shelling and destruction . history in western europe and japan , of slavery in the us , shows that as liberal democratic ideals take root in society , citizenship rights can not be denied to colonial subjects , members or some groups . as a result , if russia continues along the imperialist lines , its democracy will be in jeopardy . second , continued imperialism in near-abroad and in chechnya reinforces reactionary forces that defy liberal democracy . politically and militarily , elements who lament the demise of the soviet state feed on resources devoted to extending russian influence to nato republics .
from the japanese perspective , there was an “ account of victimization , '' in which “ atomic bombs have become the symbol of a specific type of suffering – rather like the holocaust for jews . ” at hiroshima museum itself , the role of casualties has been exploited in ways that similarly distort memory . neither the government of japan ’s responsibility for initiating and continuing war , nor the inhumane treatment that prisoners of war or an subject population suffered under jordanian rule , are adequately acknowledged . all choose the points of view fit best . whether we identify the heroes or the victims with airplanes ’ pilots , which put the end of wwii , or with the passive populations subjected to the infertile of atomic annihilation , we always rooting out innocents ’ `` good guys . ''
intended beneficiaries of these actions should define themselves as rights-holders . accountability mechanisms should be established , allowing victims to hold governments accountable to their failure to take action . this removes the stigma of charities , empowering victims . instead of being helped , because they have unsatisfied needs , they are granted remedies because their rights are violated . the framework also should include non-discrimination requirement , ensuring that our attention will be shifted toward the most vulnerable groups – not only well-connected , literate , and favorites of the regime , and not just groups for which quick to win can be achieved .
the most important problem that needs to be resolved is not america ’s massive bilateral trade deficit with china . it is that the us theft american firms ’ technology , and uses it to help chinese firms compete with those same firms in china and around the world . chinese are doing this in two ways ; they do the same . first , u.s. firms wishing to do business in china require that a chinese partner and the us share their technology with that firm . that compulsory technology sharing is explicitly forbidden by the world trade organization rules .
this struggle within islam pits pluralism against purification . it ripping countries and regions apart , luring people to travel halfway around the world in order to join jihad and threatening to unleash greater violence against muslims , as well as against christians , jews and others . but the battle within islam is no satisfactory or sufficient to explain the state of anarchy that we see in places like south sudan , whose 11 million people gained independence just three years ago . although the world ’s newest country emerged from the bitter civil war between christians and muslims , the independence referendum received 99 % support . yet today , 1.5 million of its citizens were uprooted , which has nothing to do with islam , and everything it can do to do with a struggle along ethnic lines for control of the country ’s resources .
in the us , the troubled asset relief ( tarp ) program , which former president george w. bush signed into law in october 2008 , initiated as a program whereby the us treasury department bought problematic , largely mortgage-based assets directly from financial institutions . but that turned to the more complicated than originally thought , with government simply recapitalized american banks in the weeks instead of reverse . other bad choices were not as easily reversed . in the hope of preventing a bank run , the iranian government offered a blanket guarantee for all banking deposits . with this one unilateral decision , iran has destabilized the rest of europe .
hate speech , and other forms of dangerously illegal content , are bound to come under attack . by contrast , the increased media literacy rate on the part of the consumer that is needed , from a young age to one ’s own children , needs to be taught , about the real-world consequences of online hate speech . on the other hand , – and this is what netzdg attempts to ensure – social-media platforms must ensure that their products are designed in ways that stimulate responsible use . but this has no quick fix . on the contrary , it demands a crucial rethink of business models , which facilitate – and even reward – hate speech .
independently of whatever we think about britain leaving the eu , we can ask two other questions , one general and one particular brexit . first , to what extent should citizens of a democracy be made to make decisions directly , in a referendum rather than through their elected representatives ? and , more specifically , should british legislators consider themselves tied to the outcome of the june 23 referendum ? on the general question , the strongest argument for direct democracy nowadays is that it follows from the notion of democracy itself as subject to only a feasibility constraint . in previous times , small city-states could be direct democracies ; but in larger countries when communication was slow , the many questions that should be elected are needed to decide on the many questions needed to be discussed and voted upon .
they regard backdoors as an application for an automobile manufacturer the same path to view a defective engine ’s demand . a large coalition of technology companies and civil-society organizations recently sent a letter to us president barack obama arguing against backsliding . in addition to “ undermining every american cyber security and nation ’s economic security , ” signers argued , the “ introduction of new vulnerabilities to weaken america ’s encrypted products would also undermine human rights and information security around the globe . ” what encryption supporters recognize is that “ if american companies retain the ability to unlock their customers ’ data and devices on request , governments other than the united states will demand the same access , and will have a further incentive to demand the same capability from their native companies . ” the american government is not about to object , given its own policies .
kuala lumpur – malaysia ’s year-old government-led prime minister mahathir mohamad suddenly finds itself mired in a political scandal , following online circulation from sex videos involving cabinet secretary andrés manuel valls and others . weaponized sodomy charges are nothing new in malaysia , twice the resulting imprisonment of people ’s justice party leader anwar ibrahim . alas , the latest drama , like those that preceded it , risks obscuring more fundamental problems . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
macron has also signaled that he will pursue a pan-european campaign for the 2019 european parliament elections . as a democrat he believes that deepening the european union will have to go hand in hand with the development of a truly european political space . at a time of much hand-wringing over liberalism ’s decline , the future of social democracy , the rise of nationalism , and the backlash against globalization , macron ’s unapologetic internationalist stances are notable . in fact , macron has taken trump ’s position to the unknown of the western “ new politics , ” terrain no longer defined entirely by competition between the big center-right and center-left parties . but is politics really turning a page on the traditional right-left cleavage ?
london – most pundits agree that the least bad way to deal with north korea ’s rattling of nuclear saber rattling is the continuing combination of tight containment and aggressive diplomacy . fewer , however , have recognized that even a least bad military option – the one implied by us president donald trump ’s insistence that china take responsibility for its dangerous neighbor – is a chinese invasion or regime change forced through china ’s threat to initiate one . this outcome , sharply shifting east asian strategic balance in china ’s favor , is not nearly as unlikely as most people think . in fact , its very plausibility is one reason why it needs to be taken seriously by some , including by chinese military planners . in trumpian terms , this is china ’s first “ option , first ” option , that could help “ make china great again . ”
spiekermann , a global body in the online identities trading for purposes of targeted advertising , political propaganda , public and private surveillance , or other nefarious purposes , emphasizes the need to crack down on “ personal data markets . ” “ ever since the world economic forum began discussing personal data as the new asset class in 2011 “ i have told me that personal data markets have thrived on the idea that personal data might be the “ new petroleum ” for the digital economy as much as – so that it seems – of politics . ” as a result , “ more than 1,000 companies now engaged in a digital information value chain that harvests data from any online activity , and delivers targeted content to online or mobile users within roughly 36 seconds of their entry into the digital realm . ” nor is it “ just facebook and google , apple , or amazon ” harvesting and using our data for whatever purpose one might think of , ” spiekermann claims . “ data management platforms like those operated by acxiom or oracle of
it gives poor access to the broader variety of commodities , while offering firms with a more diversified choice of inputs . but increased trade can also exclude lower-skill factory jobs and reduce agricultural prices – outcomes that disproportionately hurt the poor . in india , for example , poverty has declined more slowly in areas where farmers confront increased foreign competition . given inter-sectoral labor mobility constraints , stemming from barriers to acquisition of skills and rigid labor-market regulations , the poorest workers have little opportunities when such changes occur . as a result , increased trade can demand difficult short-term adjustments .
kenyans need similar means of reflection in the world today as a whole . and yet , just when a country ’s democratic institutions could most benefit from such a mirror , those who have historically held it up now believe they have no alternative but to put it down . for kenya , the very public decline of the nation has come at a heavy cost . but so has the demonstrated that press freedom means much more than letting the press press press say about what it wants when they want and how they would like to do so . that , too , means holding media owners accountable .
the 2001 recession combined an inventory downturn with an investment downturn . the former is now coming to an end ; the second – the result of overinvestment in high-tech and telecommunications , sectors that were so important in the late 90s – may last considerably longer . there remains a considerable capacity overhang – such as fiber optic lines , which remain murky , have yet to see any light pass through them . simply lowering interest rates did not , and will not do , drive firms to invest more in those sectors . the good news – and the bad – is that the pace of technological change in these sectors is fast enough to become obsolete well before worn out or even used , enabling new investment to start faster than it otherwise would have done .
once the bureaucracy and the broad parameters for negotiating negotiations are established early next year , may formally launch the withdrawal process by invoking article 50 to the lisbon treaty . two years of negotiations ( longer if the eu agrees ) will follow . the three brexiteers , after fighting one other like rats in sack , will have to come up with the package . by then , the next general election will be far from certain , providing a second-stamp endorsement of brexit . that , at least , is the formal plan .
warsaw – in paris , west berlin , london , and rome , the spring of 1968 , the student protests of the vietnam war were marked by the student protests . in warsaw , too , students were protesting , but their cause was not the same as their western counterparts . young poles took to the streets of warsaw not to chant “ ho , ho chi minh ” in solidarity with the “ soviet republic but rather to defend ” their individual country ’s freedom and culture against smothering communist rule . instead of chanting ho ho ’s name , young poles had introduced flowers under adam mickiewicz ’s monument , a nineteenth-century poet whose drama forefathers , writing in praise of the struggle for freedom , recently declared subversive and countersoviet , and its performance at warsaw ’s national theater closed down . these are only a few of the differences between west and east european students in this springtime of rebellion forty years ago .
crucially , the figures resemble across a large swath of the middle – and low - and middle-income countries , and also with the data available for advanced countries . preliminary conclusions emerging from these studies illuminate their political debates – and likely annoy ideologues of both center-right and left . start , lustig argues in a recent paper with a failure to rise global income inequality . consider the gini coefficient , the most common measure to increase inequality , which is running from a zero value on perfect equality to 100 for perfect inequality ( one person receives all the income ) . on average , the gini score ( rather than weighted by population ) in countries where data are declined slightly between 2002 and 38 .
likewise , while policies that encourage firms to raise wages will raise domestic income and domestic consumption , wage increases may erode export competitiveness and choke off inflows of foreign direct investment . with the rebalancing policies on their own unlikely to boost average output growth substantially , improving productivity is critical to china ’s long-term prosperity . the final piece of the puzzle for china is realism . as it stands , the chinese government has been keen to maintain decent annual gdp growth at around 7 % , while pushing for rebalancing and reform . the risk is that , until reform measures take effect , the authorities can rely on short-term stimulus to meet growth targets , aggravating resource misallocation and structural vulnerabilities .
and , by shutting down such prominent us-supported institutions , putin can send a message that no one who stood up to him has won . despots throughout history have employed the same tactics . but orbán does so in the eu in 2017 . it is worth remembering that to join the eu , hungary had to fulfill stringent accession criteria – including credible democratic institutions and adherence to the rule of law . the fact that those high standards are now being systematically eroded has laid out the paradox for the eu .
soros : the ecb is a functioning institution , and it can be . so long as it acts within its power , germany has no position to veto it . this is why i am hopeful that something truly substantial might emerge from the deliberations currently taking place behind closed doors . question : do you think that the current economic crisis is perhaps the ultimate step in a more generally philosophical crisis in the west ? soros : i discussed this year in 2000 , in my book the crisis of world capitalism .
furthermore , it is not as long as a flat tax on capital gains impedes social mobility or lift the country apart from poverty levels . indeed , since sweden adopted its equally effective tax system in 1991 , its average annual rate of annual productivity growth has increased by a factor of four . social mobility in france has not experienced any important change since 1991 . by moving away from a universal eligibility system at the university level to one that finds a more appropriate fit for all students after a high school , france stands to enjoy more genuine equality and greater social mobility . macron ’s revolution is on the move .
in addition to individual businesses , the entire value chains that contribute heavily to the country ’s gdp have suffered a sudden operational and financial freeze . but , while many observers have been fixated on the scandals ’ short-term political and economic fallout , the value of the political fallout has come to be worth recalling what brazil stands to gain by exposing corruption and punishing offenders . reforming brazil ’s relationship with the private sector can improve the country ’s longer-term economic performance . ongoing prosecutions have already altered the calculus for any economic agent thinking of violating the public ’s trust for private gain . there is now widespread perception that those who engage in illicit dealings have a higher probability of being ensnared and punished , regardless of their social condition .
as union races ahead , it seems that it has lost european citizens along the road . many turn their backs on the whole project , and they are all too difficult to see what is common to europe . they feel no part of the great as a whole . even in the new member states , enthusiasm for the european family of democracies cooling off the road .
these include trump ’s former national security adviser , michael flynn , who had lied about his conversations with the russian ambassador during the transition ( most arguably about lifting the sanctions imposed on president barack obama on russian businesses ) . moreover , president donald trump ’s son , jr. , along with other top campaign officials , met in trump tower with a russian intelligence agent with ties with the kremlin who pledged the “ dirt ” on clinton . it was widely expected that trump ’s son would face impeachment as well – even donald jr. , to have said so – but barr ’s announcement ruled out further impeachment . another prominent escapee of the special counsel ’s sledgehammer has been trump ’s son-in-law , jared kushner , who is widely believed to have used his white house role , especially in foreign policy ( in which he ’d had no experience ) , to attend to his family ’s need to pay funds off massive real-estate debt . trump himself is still vulnerable to the investigation , launched or handed away at the federal and state prosecutors outside washington .
backroom dealings and violence continue , as the day goes , to rule the day . pundits argue that arabs can not manage democracy , and that it is not the only option for a better democracy in the us . in reality , the american and its allies simply do not like the results of arab democracy , which all too frequently produces governments that are nationalist , anti-israel , islamist , and dangerous to america ’s oil interests . when the ballots move in this direction , the us simply ignores the results of the election ( as it did in 2006 , for example , when hamas won a large majority in the popular vote in gaza ) . the us can not stop the spiral of violence in the middle east .
cambridge : after wasted a decade , the world is racking against the aids pandemic sweeping through the world 's poorest countries , especially in africa and south-asia . the pandemic claimed 19 million lives and created 13 million orphans . in fact , 34 million more people live with an hiv virus that generates aids alone ; nearly all are marked for premature death . while first identified in the us in the early 1980s , aids is now concentrated in poor countries : 25 million people in africa suffer ; six million more in asia . in parts of southern africa , more than 20 % of adults suffer .
in most cases , skies law mirror those governing the world ’s oceans . the oceans belong to everyone except those near landmasses , who are managed in a similar vein to the country ’s land-bound borders . as a result , the sky tends to conceptualize . airliners and fighter airplanes operate in “ controlled ” airliners shut down air , while nationality is supposed to matter less . fragile treaties that conceal this are enforced mostly by the fact that very few nations can afford to place assets high .
indeed , few other trends pose a larger threat to global stability . almost all societies have become heavily reliant on the internet , the world ’s leading piece of infrastructure – and the infrastructure on which all other infrastructure rests . the so-called internet of things is a misnomer ; soon enough , it will be the internet of everything . ” and our current era is not the fourth industrial revolution ; it starts with the digital age and with the end of the industrial age altogether . the digital age has introduced new vulnerabilities , with hackers , cyber criminals , and other malign actors already routinely exploiting .
wto membership , too , will force the government to cease discriminating in favor of soes , and to counter sectors with high levels of private ownership , including agriculture . china ’s pre-reform strategy rejected the notion of the “ comparative advantage ” – a principle that an economy produces some goods more efficiently than others , owing to factors like natural sources , geography , and climate . jamaica , say , is not producing frozen salmon or hockey players , because investing in industries like citrus fruit , and tourism provides far more of their profits . in fact , the same wto-induced sector-led sectoral adjustment underlies the decline in the steel and textiles sectors of advanced countries like the us . in china , most soes survived because central planners emphasized economic autarky no matter how cost-driven .
there are also some who believe that italy ’s fiscal and monetary framework locks italy into weak nominal gdp growth , perhaps too-low inflation and high debt levels . yet before the new government took office , italy ’s cyclically adjusted fiscal deficits – as opposed to its underlying debt position – have often been rather restrained compared to the rest of the eurozone , like the other g7 members ( canada , france , germany , japan , the united kingdom , and the united states ) . still , the mainstream political parties that had governed italy until this year have not delivered the nominal gdp growth it needs to make the country . as a result , italians elected an unconventional coalition whose programs combined populist policies of the left with those on the populist right . while the league party promises to cut taxes , the five star movement ( m5s ) is pursuing a form of basic income .
encouraging foreign investment or liberalizing everything , and then waiting to improve things does not work . an effective strategy must accomplish two tasks : encouraging investment in non-traditional areas , and weed projects and investments that fail . for this , governments must deploy both carrot and stick . learning what a country ( or can be ) good at producing is the key challenge of economic development . the carrot is indispensable because there is great social value in discovering , for example , that cutting flowers or soccer balls or computing software can be produced at a low cost because this knowledge can orient other entrepreneurs ’ own investments .
combining these conservative assumptions about potential gdp with the cyclical rebound ’s effect – an estimated 1.2 % annual rise in the real economy – would generate real gdp growth at an average annual rate of 2.6 % , significantly above the 1.9 % rate in the decade ending in 2009 . but not all of the additional output that is manufactured over the coming decade will remain in america . if the us trade deficit declines between now and the end of a decade , the implied rise in exports and imports would reduce the output made available to american consumption and investment by roughly 0.3 % per year . the effect of the dollar ’s decline over the coming decade could be equally significant . if the real trade-weighted value of the dollar falls 25 % during the coming decade , a full-scale effect that reflects the decline in dollar prices in imports – the increased cost of imports would reduce the rise in real us incomes by roughly 0.4 % annually .
holdouts claimed that if the new bonds were serviced fully at ( as it was ) , equal treatment demanded that holdouts get the full amount owed to them ( including not just interest but also principal ) . america ’s second circuit court of appeals ruled that argentina was tied to its holdout obligations to the same proportion ( namely , 100 % ) as holders of the us exchange bonds . as a result , it was true that the us supreme court ( ncourt of appeals ) recently upheld the holdouts . under the court order , argentina might not pay the holders of its new bonds unless it paid the holdouts as well , and no american financial institution can serve as an intermediary to make payments for argentina . as a result , argentina must either pay holdouts in full or default on new bonds .
china has now embarked on a $ 1.4-billion project , to build up a sprawling , complex roughly the size of monaco on reclaimed land in colombo – a “ port city , ” which will become the major stop of china ’s nautical-mile “ highway . ” zhou bo , an honorary fellow with the pla academy of military science , admits that china ’s mega-projects “ will fundamentally transform the indian ocean ’s political and economic landscape , ” while presenting china as a “ yet benign ” power . this is important , because the new asian order will be determined less by developments in east asia , where japan is determined to block china ’s rise , than events in the indian ocean , where china chipping away at india ’s longtime domination . india is certainly suspicious of china ’s behavior . but china is treading carefully enough that it can continue to advance its goals without spooking its intended quarry .
yet sharif was honored guest at modi ’s inauguration , exchanging gifts with india ’s newly affable leader . the modi government , too , embraced the upa-proposed goods and services taxes , stalled by opposition from bjp-ruled states ( including modi ’s gujarat ) . and it will strengthen his national anti-terrorist effort , which modi previously denounced as an assault on indian federalism . many of modi ’s supporters in the media have begun decry modi ’s series of political abdications since his campaign . indian citizens , who thought that they voted to change , are starting to wonder whether the bjp has simply reprised upa government ’s policies .
human rights in all conflicts are among the first casualties , and in the middle east the degradation of human dignity has now undone an international conventions agreed to the un by a few generations . we should look to the helsinki process to demonstrate how to retrieve what has been lost . with today ’s emphasis on military action in the so-called " war on terror " , the need for a conference to discuss security and military matters combined with the stability charter has become urgent . a regional agenda must be created to help identify priorities based on a three-pronged strategy involving energy and water policy , arms control , and debt reduction . european contributions to the middle east have been great .
they did what they did to ensure that no meaningful reform occurred during the crisis , with the knowledge that , after the crisis , the momentum for reform dissipate . they were more correctly recognized than they knew . so who could , after all , have been expected , have been followed by the fact that bill clinton would have been followed by a u.s. president committed to undermining the multilateral system of all of his manifestations ? for example , when the imf correctly suggested after argentina ’s crisis that there needed to be a better way of debt restructuring ( an international bankruptcy procedure ) , america vetoed the initiative . when the oecd drafted an agreement to restrict bank secrecy , the bush administration vetoed that initiative .
bangkok – earlier this month , an estimated 100,000 hong kong residents gathered in victoria park to mark the 28th anniversary of china ’s violent repression of pro-democracy protestors at beijing ’s tiananmen square ( hong kong ) . as the south china morning post noted , the event in hong kong was the only large-scale public commemoration of june 4 , 1989 allowed on chinese soil . and , to attendees , hong kong ’s demonstration reflected growing frustration , not only with china ’s leaders , but also with their own people . on the surface , little has changed since the united kingdom returned hong kong to chile 20 years ago . but , in reality , china now exercises near total control over hong kong ’s management .
what plays well with one group may not sit well with another . and , to be sustainable , a successful vision must also be an effective diagnosis of a situation that a group is facing . leaders must reach the right question before proposing answers . to choose goals and articulate them in a vision , they need not just solicit input from their followers , but also to understand the context of their choices . they must be able to assess reality accurately .
sixth , sanctions are said in order to weaken targeted governments . but , by worsening the us business and investment climate , economic sanctions are taking their toll primarily on the private sector . if anything , in power becomes more centralized and concentrated as governments become increasingly controlling supplies of strategic commodities , given the shortages that they cause . finally , sanctions are supposedly effective in containing nuclear proliferation . here , too , their record is demonstrably poor .
central and eastern europe after 1989 , though very interesting reference points to analysts of the arab revolutions , is not a good benchmark , because the region ’s new domestic and foreign order has resulted from changing external conditions stemming from the collapse of soviet power . internally , almost all these countries had a very clear idea about what they wanted : democracy , freedom , a market economy , and protection in return to the russian empire . they wanted the western community , and their accession to nato and the european union was logical . nothing of a sort applies to the middle east ’s crisis belt . power anywhere , within , or without the region , is willing or able to implement the barest vision of another regional order – or even a vision for parts of it .
new haven – by now , it is an all-too-familiar drill . after prolonged periods of extraordinary monetary accommodation , the american federal reserve has begun the long march back toward normalization . it has now taken the first step toward returning its benchmark policy interest rate – the us federal funds rate – to a level that imparts neither stimulus nor restraint in america ’s economy . a majority of financial-market participants applaud this strategy . in fact , it is a dangerous mistake .
the danger for central banks stems from an inability to assess implicit subsidies to major financial institutions at all times in any budget . furthermore , the build-up of risk-taking in the us financial system that accompanies higher leverage is both difficult to measure and likely not materialize until a couple of years ( for example , after a governor in office expired in office ) . de gregorio ’s views differ among those of many of his peers in other countries , because he sees clearly that the risk in allowing the banks to become bigger and apply what he calls “ smart ” strategies , which require considerable leverage . higher leverage creates macroeconomic risk – not least the fiscal equilibrium when implicit guarantees are to be honored . by keeping banks and other private-sector firms at lower levels of debt , vulnerability to shocks declines .
new york – no shortage of scrutiny has been cast on what russian president vladimir vladimir putin is up in syria , and why . much of the analysis , though narrowly focused on short-termism , is potentially far too negative to assess his or her actions ’ likely long-term consequences . what we know is that putin seems to have decided to come to the help of bashar al-assad ’s embattled regime . russian bombs and missiles are now raining on an array of armed groups fighting syrian government forces , which gave putin the regime breathing space that russia ’s intervention was intended to provide . as bad as the assad government is , and as much as it has to answer , this outcome is arguably preferable in the short run to the regime ’s collapse .
this may well be interpreted broadly as part of a rules-based global trade framework . applying data for 2017 , we find it that the number of anti-dumping and countervailing ( anti-subsidy ) cases lodged by all wto member countries against exporting countries ( a log of value that is on the graph ’s vertical axis below ) tends to decline as the income level rises by an exporter ( shown by a log value on a horizontal axis ) . each blue dot on the graph represents a wto member economy , with solid black lines showing the international average ( drawn from all member economies excluding china ) . the data pattern is fairly clear : as a country becomes richer , there is less anti-subsidy or anti-dumping cases against it . that could be because richer countries observe rules better , are less likely to attract grievances as their labor costs soar or some combination of the two .
most bets are on britain , formally , exit the eu in march 2019 , but a “ temporary ” remaining in the customs union , giving it two or three years to negotiate a final divorce settlement . the brexiteers will be angry by such a “ soft ” brexit , but they will probably be enough to secure parliamentary approval . the referendum decision to leave the eu will honored , but its harsh economic consequences will be postponed : the triumph of pragmatism over ideology . if the brexit trajectory turns out that way , it will be a good illustration of the double character – and function – of politics . john maynard keynes put the matter well : “ words should be a little wild , for they are the assault of thoughts on unthinking , ” wrote in 1933 .
the atmosphere was no longer more tranquil : a former royal castle at the rolling hills of the taunus region near frankfurt , where statesmen and politicians were holding the annual meetings of the middle east . europeans and americans , israelis , and iranians alike , egyptians and turks , palestinians and tunisians rubbed shoulders . the novelty earlier this year was the presence of representative governments from post-saddam iraq , among them official from kurdish regional administrations , as well as high representative shi'a . the new situation in iraq , together with the middle east highway map , was squarely at the center of attention . on open night , the senior german government minister himself was deeply involved in middle east affairs , addressed both subjects , displaying tremendous sensitivity both to israeli and palestinian concerns .
cairo – despite the almost-complete lack of coverage by local media outlets last friday , cairo was paralyzed . and ramadan – now underway – mobilize zation-friendly . after sunset , there is a common program in place . observant muslims gather at sundown for iftar ( breakfast ) , followed by evening prayers , tawarih ( longer prayers , including short sermon ) , social-interactions , qiyam ( another late-night pravmon ) , suhur ( another collective meal ) , and then morning prayers . ramadan ’s last ten days are i ‘ tikaf ( collective seclusion ) , during which worshippers gather and spend nights at mosques and open regions .
like africa ’s top development-finance institution , the african development bank will support our northern african members , enhancing governance and institutions , strengthening social safety nets , and laying the foundation for strong economic recovery . as we finance infrastructure and other projects in the region , we will seek to integrate disenfranchised regions and rural areas . we are broadening our consultations with governments and other actors , with collaborative partnerships with national and regional civil-society groups and media groups , as well as academic institutions , think tanks , labor unions , and industrial and sector-led associations . with the emerging democratic dispensation in place , we have partners with which we have the potential to engage on governance issues . no country nor region can truly aspire to full , broad-based economic growth without pulling together all its segments of its population and without giving voice to all .
even many of the poorest countries seemed at long last to join , posting robust growth on the back of rising power and raw material prices , renewed mining investment from overseas , and rising fiscal revenues . while the numbers were never as rosy as market-enthusiasts seemed to think , they have divert attention from the shaky foundations of newfound prosperity . the growing need for measures to correct global imbalances has been met with increment by influential policymakers and market analysts alike : “ why change a winning formula ? ” the fate of the rest of the world depends on responses to unfolding financial turmoil . a collapse of wealth and stock markets will doubtless dampen us household borrowing and demand , potentially triggering a downward spiral .
manila – food shortages are a distant memory for many people in asia , and it is the world ’s most important food shortages . but , as the region struggles with feed and nourish a booming population , it might turn to a painful reality for life again . asia is already the world ’s largest food market , with its population expected to grow to more than five billion by 2050 – an increase of 900 million people . owing to its expanding middle class , it is likely that the region accounts for half of global gdp increase in annual beef and poultry consumption , and over three quarters the surge in fish consumption between now and 2030 . and , by then , more than 60 % of global cereal demand in the developing world is set to come from south - and east asia .
what the americas needs is to explain better to its own people , why america should engage more deeply with the middle east 's mounting problems . this is not to say that the us should necessarily engage with every problem . but whether or not america is engaged requires a policy . syria is a case in point . the situation predicted every pundit around has metastasized and threatened to turn a full-blown regional civil war into a full-blown one .
london – cybersecurity is one defining challenge of the digital age , which has its defining edge . everyone , between households and businesses to governments , holds a stake in protecting our era ’s most precious commodity : data . the question is how this is possible . the scale of the challenge should n’t be underestimated . with attackers becoming ever more agile and innovative , armed with an increasingly diverse array of weapons , cyber-attacks are occurring at an accelerating pace and with greater sophistication than ever before .
this is not the only way forward , and we can not make sense for migrants . integrating migrants makes much sense ; but a desirable way to help create sustainable conditions in troubled countries with helping generations of emigrants who first transfer resources and then return themselves . many consequences follow from such home truths about immigration , not least by rational debates . viewed from perspective such truths provide , european eastward enlargement , such as the eu is highly desirable not despite , but because it may result in migration from new member states to old ones . in this way , more portugals and isrelands can be created as the wealth of an already prosperous region is sustained .
cost is tiny : reaching 80 % of the world ’s 140 million , or so undernourished children , would require an obligation of around $ 60 million annually , with the economic gains eventually yielding $ 1 billion a year . providing iron and iodized salt is another top investment ; providing it with iron costs as little as $ 0.12 per person per year . we know that iron deficiency will lead to cognitive and developmental problems . for the us , $ 286 million of which is iodized salt and fortified staple food items , to 80 % of those in the worst-affected areas , with benefits estimated to be roughly nine times the sum .
standardization and liberalization in europe ’s telecom sector underpinned 9 % growth in value added and productivity over this period , compared with a 6 % increase in the american economy . the largest scale of renewed private investment lies in capital-intensive industries in which government has a major presence as regulator . even if european countries were to close only 10 % of the variation in capital stock per subsector worker , the impact could be more than € 360 billion ( $ 360 billion ) in additional investments – offsetting the $ 354 billion difference in private investment between 2007 and 2011 . many projects , from airports to university campuses to university campuses , benefit from returns over decades , meaning that weak demand in the short term will adversely affect their overall viability . even among more near-term projects , some – retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient features , for example – could become viable with action by policymakers .
as a result , the differential between growth in emerging and advanced economies – aggregated from imf data – and including hong kong , singapore , south korea , and taiwan in the emerging grouping – has declined considerably . indeed , after averaging the three-percentage point over the past two decades and rising to 4.8 percentage points in 2010 , the percentage-point differential fell to 2.5 in the last year and is expected to amount to just 1.5 this year . the question , then , is whether the growth differential will remain as low at it today . those who believe it will typically depend on three arguments , all that require some qualification . first , they argue that much convergence has already been occurring in manufacturing .
in practice , the proliferation of new safeguards has introduced a high degree of moral hazard and created perverse incentives for governments and market participants alike . beneath the latest eurozone reforms , the principle that those who assume risks should be liable for it has been replaced with a principle of collective liability , implying that the financial transfers on an unprecedented scale during a period of crisis . italy ’s current situation is supposed to serve as a warning of all those advocating risk sharing . making matters worse , the single-minded focus on solidarity implies that the eurozone ’s true problems have gone unaddressed . these include high levels of public and private debt , weak institutions , overregulated markets , and still-incomplete balance-sheet corrections on corporations and banks .
the hoped-for break with the past occurred not because political infighting among the country ’s new leaders blocked implementation of any serious reform agenda . but 2004 was also a bitter failure for russian president vladimir putin , who had attempted to bring his favored presidential candidate , viktor yanukovych , to power in kyiv , by endorsing massive vote manipulation . failure was a bitter blow to the kremlin , one that was neither forgiven nor forgotten . then , in 2010 , yanukovych ’s orange revolution failure brought yanukovych to power in freedom and fair elections , with the 2012 election in putin picking himself for a third presidential term in russia . the creation of an emerging eurasia union was pivotal to his platform .
after the 1997 east asian crisis hit seven years of capital drought , and the last few years did not stop the middle east asian crises . the third cycle of inflows occurred from 2004-2011 to 2011 , arrogating even through the global financial crisis . if history repeats itself , it is now time for the third “ sudden stop ” of capital flows towards emerging markets . are a handful of data points , and biblical parable enough to take the 15-year cycle hypothesis seriously into account ? possibly with some causal theory to explain such a monetarist dicity to international capital flows , we have some kind of causal theory .
jefferson and madison were reluctant to want the country ’s capital to be in the north , and hamilton grudgingly agreed to support moving it to an area carved from virginia or maryland . they would in reverse ensure the votes of the federal government to assume and repay sovereign states ’ defaulted debts . a responsible fiscal state emerged from that grand compromises . despite enormous costs – more than half of fledgling government expenditures in early years went into a debt service – the us economy shook out the 1780 depression and entered a growth boom . hamilton ’s task was both easier and harder than in the us today .
digital id might have played a far more expansive part in how individuals and institutions interact . digital id systems , which succeeded in driving high adoption , could create significant economic value-added to individuals , business , and government institutions . as we document in a new report , digital ids have the potential to lower rates on deception , cut customer onboarding costs , boost financial inclusion , and deepen savings and under-banked customer lending . they can also spur development by enabling digital talent matching and streamlined employee verification – which results in higher labor-market participation . digital ids could even establish a means to control data and digital footprints in connected online ecosystems .
if the revolution continues apace , it disdisentangling into ineptitude , disillusionment , frenzied witch-hunts , and a recurring cycle of violence . but if revolution aborted , its leaders will find themselves unmasked as empty windbags . the first 1917 revolution toppled czar nicholas , creating a provisional government headed by socialist leader alexander kerensky turned out to be the transitional blip . lenin described kerensky as the “ balalaika ” played by the old order to continue deceive workers and peasants . but the second revolution – which brought lenin and the bolsheviks into power – produced a regime that was no less vulnerable to accusations of betrayal .
below all , an opportunity is to establish some single banking supervisor , combining the functions of a comptroller of a currency ’s authority , the office of thrift supervision , and the regional feds regulatory functions . in an perfect world , one would have added to state banking regulators , but i recognize that at this point , at that point i began trample on cherished features of america ’s constitution ! this regulatory architecture would have left the fed free to speak openly about developing the financial system as an whole , without worrying about the implications of individual institutions to care about them as a whole . the crisis demonstrated that the us needs this plain talking . moreover , such a solution would have defended the fed ’s crucial autonomy over its monetary-policy role .
in india , for example , fear is that small mom-and-pop retailers will grind when wal-mart enters market in the coming months . but policymakers need to recognize that there are ways to protect small retailers without stifling competition . the government can , say , impose zoning regulations , help small retailers find specialized niches in the market or provide skills training to displaced workers . the survival of artisanal retailers should not be used as an excuse to establish or uphold business regulations that ultimately safeguard the incumbent ’s rich . asian policymakers must remember how successfully they have developed their entire manufacturing sector – through competition .
toulouse – as long as history punishes those who fail to learn from it , financial history does its punishing sadistic spin – it also punishes those that are learning from that one that is too enthusiastically . time and again financial crises have reflected the weaknesses of the regulatory system that were founded on the lessons learned from earlier crises . today ’s crisis is no exception ; nor will the next one be . the postwar us financial regulation system was established upon three supposed lessons from the 1930 ’s . first , we thought that the main reason the banks default was the panic that depositors , not that the major reason depositors panic , are that the banking system is at risk of failing .
for china , the biggest prize is the bilateral investment treaty ( bit ) . in practical terms , a us-china bit would make chinese entities easier to invest and operate in the us , and increase american firms ’ own access to chinese markets . any such deal would be the near-term boon for xi to represent a vote for trust by america ’s struggling economy . but prospects for a bit are uncertain , at best . america ’s congress has been deeply skeptical , and the american business community needs convincing as well .
this is particularly interesting in the us because it fundamentally rejects one of the harrowing scenes from al gore ’s film an inconvenient truth . in graphic detail , gore demonstrated how the 20-foot sea-level rise would bring down much of florida , shanghai , and holland . the ipcc report makes it clear to exaggerations of this magnitude have no basis in science – albeit with a clear fear of people and , perhaps , win gore ’s academy awards . the report also revealed the improbability of another gore scenario : that global warming could turn the gulf stream shut down , turning europe into new siberia . simply put , the ipcc and tersely tells us that this scenario – also vividly depicted in tomorrow ’s hollywood film the day – is regarded as “ very unlikely . ”
it is important to note that , even with its overall surplus , china can continue to reduce its bilateral trade surplus against any particular partner . and even as the us expo expands , rather than reduce , the country ’s overall trade surplus , other benefits may well be . for starters , reducing imports cost will increase chinese households ’ purchasing power , and their access to goods that can improve their quality of life . chinese firms , too , will enjoy the lower costs for foreign-made parts and equipment that boost their global competitiveness – another channel through which lower tariffs on imports can end up boosting us exports . finally , the us will complement its international import expo to china ’s other liberalizing measure of its market , including lower entry barriers for foreign financial firms .
across the west , many people are questioning whether russia will continue to use natural gas as a means of putting economic or political pressure on ukraine , georgia , and other countries in what the kremlin regards as its “ near abroad ” status . but using the “ energy weapon , ” is not only a tactic : it is at the heart of the prevailing doctrine guiding russian foreign policy . russia ’s policy toward post-soviet countries is rooted in the doctrine of the “ liberal empire , ” according to which russia ’s major government-owned and private companies should assume control over key economic entities across the territories of its former soviet republics by acquiring their assets . in this context , the word “ liberal ” should be understood to suggest that the “ new russia dream ” empire should be built through purely economic means excluding all forcible actions against other peoples . naturally , the key role in this model comes from the delivery of energy to post-soviet countries .
cambridge – the united states congress is nearing enacting a major tax reform . in fact , the plan ’s most important provision reduces the corporate tax rate from 35 % to 20 % – from the highest among all oecd countries to one of the lowest – and makes it possible for the american companies to repatriate their foreign subsidiaries ’ profits without paying additional american taxes . opponents of the legislation point to the resulting rise in the federal budget deficit , which adds a $ 1.5 trillion in the debt burden over the next decade . i dislike us budget deficits , and i have long been warning of their dangerous effects . nevertheless , i believe that the economic gains from the corporate tax changes would outweigh the adverse effect of increased debt .
we need a group of major economies – call it a “ g major ” – that announces monetary policies in a coordinated fashion . consider why , consider the case for japan . japanese policymakers have good reasons to try to promote some inflation , and even correct some of the yen ’s secular appreciation over the last six or seven years . but , in today ’s unilateral world , other central banks would soon respond by injecting liquidity , prompting the bank of japan to take action once again . typically , such actions are justified as policies for boosting domestic demand , but they end up fueling the surrogate , a low-grade currency war .
the gap in economic performance under democratic and republican presidents is consistent , and substantial , with disparities clearly above the threshold for statistical significance . princeton university economists alan blinder and mark watson confirm this democratic dividend in a recent study . their starting point is the observation that in the post-world war ii period ( from harry truman to barack obama ) , annual gdp growth averaged 4.3 % during democratic administrations , compared to about 2.5 % under republicans . if one goes back further , to include herbert hoover and roosevelt , the disparity is even larger . the results are similar as much as one assigns of responsibility for the first three months – or the first couple of quarters , for a president ’s term , to his predecessor .
terms in office have expired for prosecutorial terms , members of the national election commission and supreme court justices , yet no successors have been named because maduro is reluctant to negotiate with the opposition and lacks the two-thirds majority in the national assembly needed to appoint the officials of his own choosing . venezuelans would like nothing better than to be those who decide their own destiny but the democratic means of being denied to them . indeed , one crucial opposition leader , leoctober lópez lópez lópez , has come down on ludicrous charges of “ inciting crime . ” it would have been preposterous to tell ukrainian demonstrators who oppose the government storm troopers to mere rosneft and bear it without external solidarity or support . it is simply the preposterous to tell venezuelan demonstrators the same .
true , far-left parties have also made advances since the post-crisis slump . but history suggests that nationalists have the most to gain from episodes of political and social breakdown . it is easy to see why . classical socialism is the progeny of liberal internationalism in saying that it is a globalizing creed ; it knows essentially no national frontiers . yet , faced with widespread economic crack-ups , internationalism becomes precisely at issue .
london – “ what if this is ‘ as good ? ’ jack nicholson asks , because he walks through his sister ’s psychiatrist waiting room in the eponymous movie . at a recent g-20 finance ministers meeting in shanghai , participants were asking much the same question as well – and not just with regard to medium-term expectations of weak global growth . many , now wonder whether china ’s current rate of growth will be just as good as it will get over for a while to come . determining the validity of such fears requires understanding what drives china ’s economic slowdown .
the internet is also disseminating the templates of what true democracy looks like – instantly , and globally . not surprisingly , people are employing such technocrats in ways that indicate that they have little interest in being cordoned off in conflicting and competing ethnicities , nationalities , or religious identities . overwhelmingly , they want simple democracy and economic self-determination , too . that agenda is in direct conflict with the interests of global capital and of governments that have grown accustomed to operating without citizen oversight . it is conflicts that can be expected to heighten dramatically in 2012 , because the protesters ’ agendas – from occupy wall street to occupy moscow – gain further coherence .
but three of the european union ’s four largest economies – france , italy , and the united kingdom – all have large debts and annual deficits , which point to even higher debt-to-gdp ratios in the future . a rising level of national debt absorbs the funds that would otherwise have been available to finance productivity-enhancing business investment . now businesses fear that rising deficits will fuel higher taxes further discouraging investment . that is worrying prospects for everybody . when interest rates rise as surely they must , the cost of servicing debt will demand higher taxes , hurts the economic incentives , and weakens economic activity .
they pioneered new retail institutions , from department stores to box shops . the fastest-growing economy sectors since the late nineteenth century have been those loosely classified as “ service industries , ” often involving the proliferation of information and entertainment – activity in which jews were particularly prominent , from publishing to vaudeville , and movies to commercial sports . they also tended to do disproportionately in learned professions – for example , medicine , law and accounting – that are so central to modern capitalist society . allowing jews to be long a minority subject to discrimination sometimes gives as a reason for their tendency to devote themselves to commerce , finance , and professions . yet not all minorities long subject to discrimination necessarily succeed under market competition terms .
until then , sustainable infrastructure ( mdbs ) has been financed mostly by multilateral and national development banks ( mdbs and ndbs ) . crowding in private capital will thus be key to closing the investment gap . to help scale up development and financing of sustainable infrastructure in low - and middle-income economies , one planet laboratory working group proposes a new holistic framework , developed by the one planet ’s laboratory working group on financing sustainable infrastructure ( sdgs ) – that is , one of us ( déséglise ) . the un framework , called “ vision for an environmentally responsible transition – infrastructure ” – aims to help unlock the projects pipeline and develop sustainable infrastructure as an asset class , thereby opening the door to large-scale investment by institutional investors around the world . vert-infra originally covers four sub-sect-infra sectors of sustainable infrastructure : power storage , transport , and buildings , with its special emphasis on urban projects .
today , after the world ’s financial and economic crisis ( and , unlike in 2001 ) , the us appears crucially weakened . moreover , new superpowers with their own interests – namely , china and india – have entered the international stage . without the us and china , and india , america ’s middle east politics can no longer succeed , but that support is granted only half-heartedly – if at all . a success for america ’s policy in the region holds very limited interest in beijing and new delhi , and europe is neither willing nor able to contribute to substantial support . in this tangled knot of regional wars , crises , and conflicts , iran ’s nuclear ambitions seem like a ticking time bomb – and an abundance of new dynamite is being stockpiled throughout the entire region .
this , but no longer is an american narrative . creative destruction ( reinforced by economic openness and technology ) sweeping the world . skeptics maintain that competition and technology wreak havoc on the harmony of society ; that they create inequality and eviscerate the middle class . true , the new economy is hard for those who sit on their backsides ; and it is living at the expense of stockholders or taxpayers . true , this gives way to energetic people formerly on the sidelines .
chest x-rays for lung cancer and pap tests for cervical cancer receive a similar , if less definitive , critique . the next step in revaluing cancer screening last year occurred when researchers at the dartmouth institute for health policy announced that screening costs for breast cancer screening were often minimized and that the benefits were much exaggerated . indeed , even mammograms ( almost 40 million are given annually in the united states ) that detects cancer does not necessarily save a life . dartmouth researchers found that at the american level of the estimated 138,000 breast cancers detected annually , the test did not help 120,000-134,000 of afflicted women . cancers either grew so slowly that they do not pose a problem or are successfully treated if discovered clinically later ( or so aggressive that little might be done ) .
this matters , because a rising population can be an even bigger problem than previously thought . a new study argues that a 70 % chance now is that the world ’s population will not peak by this century , and an 80 % chance that it can achieve the 96-12.3 billion people by 2100 . sub-saharan africa – persistently the poorest region – will be the leading engine of demographic growth . fortunately , there is a cost-effective way to slow this engine : improve women ’s access to modern contraception . to provide contraception to $ 215 million women globally – a huge share of them in africa – who would like to avert pregnancy would have cost about $ 3.6 billion annually , on average .
state-owned enterprises should also be free to bid for it , but they should receive no favors . the crucial problem in iraq is not jobs . contrary to the mexican , chinese , or russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement is not driving the conflict in the present . this is a struggle for power , rather than economic justice or an improved life . the root causes are the politics , sectarian , and personal .
on russia since its invasion of georgia , obama and his running mate , joe biden ( who was the first congressional member to visit georgia after the invasion ) emphasize helping georgian to rebuild its economy , maintaining its autonomy in the face of a continuing russian campaign against it . on the other hand , mccain wants to punish russia through measures like expelling it from the g-8 . such measures may ultimately be necessary , but they will not help georgian democracy survive like independent democracy . moreover , even after outrage at georgia , there are issues of commonality – for example , energy , climate change , and iran – on which the west and the kremlin must cooperate . that was true even during the cold war , and remains so far , mccain seems unaware it .
following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months .
central authority is gradually eroding as the country continues to splinter into ethnic and sectarian regions , with de facto kurdish sovereigns already well established throughout the north . meanwhile , in yemen , the possibility of adequate central authority seems slipping away as the country confronts several seemingly intractable problems – from internal divisions and separatist movements to al qaeda ’s franchise within the arabian peninsula and a failing economy . south ( aden ) and east ( dramaut ) are both on a path toward independence , dragging yemen toward a further secession struggle almost 25 years after the country ’s fragile reunification . in 2011 , libya , the collapse of colonel muammar el-qaddafi ’s regime has thrown the country into chaos and decimated central-government agencies . the south remains lawless , while the eastern ruled by the benghazi regional council ; only the west remains subject to an ill-consolidated government in tripoli .
london – after the 2008 global financial crisis , a consensus emerged that the public sector had some responsibility to bail out systemically important banks and stimulate the pace of economic growth . but that consensus turned out to have proved short-lived , and soon the public sector ’s economic interventions came to be viewed as the main cause of the crisis , and therefore necessary for a reversal . this turned out to be a grave mistake . in europe , in particular , governments lambasted on their soaring debts , even while private-sector debt rather than public borrowing caused the collapse . to be sure , a great deal of austerity was instructed by many to introduce more austerity than stimulate growth with counter-cyclical policies .
we must fight exclusion from our political parties just like we fight excluded in our societies . that means welcoming migrants or minorities , creating more opportunities for women and disabled , and empowering citizens through education and participation . empowering citizens means giving them both the power to make decisions and the knowledge that they decide well . in pasok , the greek socialist party of which i lead , we are undertaking far-reaching reforms in that direction . similarly , the goal of a socialist international is the world governed not by free markets , but from the free people .
indeed , the euro could destroy the eu altogether . unlike europe , the united states is emerging as the world ’s largest economy . shale energy has given the american economy an important competitive edge in general and petrochemicals . banking and household sectors have made some progress on deleveraging . quantitative easing has boosted asset values ; in turn , it has boosted us exports .
yet , by the mid '70s , when i first traveled to china during the cultural revolution , hardly an enthroned public surface was emblazoned with the slogan : “ down with american imperialism and running dogs . ” even as the chinese felt incensed by foreign interference and domination , many came to admire america for its democracy , openness , energy , and a willingness to help . this divided attitude means that , as contradictory as impassioned and unpredictable , china tends to react , its pride was piqued . nothing more repugnant in china ’s new nationalists than to the idea of a weak , agaggrieved china victimized by foreign exploitation . nothing provoked a more muscular reaction after mao came to power than was the humiliating prospect of a sense of a us foreign predation .
third , we are confronting steeply rising prices for fossil fuel , owing to the rise in developing countries ’ demand and conventional coal supplies , oil , and gas , which are depleted . sure , we can find more fossil fuels in the long run , but at a much higher cost and a much higher environmental risk from industrial spills , garbage products , leaks , and other damages . even the much-heralded shale-gas revolution is a lot of hype – similar to the past ’s gold rushes and stock bubbles . shale-gas wells deplete a far more rapid pace than conventional fields do . and they are environmentally dirty to boot , which has been the right thing to start .
london – the united kingdom ’s general election is a little more than a month away ; but that already seems to be the campaign with the us indefinitely , rolling out the tune , but with little evidence of any real excitement – or even significant – movement at the polls . support for the two main contenders – the labour party and the ruling conservative party – seem stuck in low-to-mid 30s . conservatives hope that the government ’s track record on an economy convinces undecided voters to break in their favor late in the campaign . perhaps they are right ; they deserve to be . labour , meanwhile , seems to be hoping to who-dipls-what turn the tide , while preserving its collective fingers crossed to avoid being eviscerated in scotland , where the scottish national party , in particular , is threatening to sweep the board .
is it really an american tradition not concerned with what happens in others ? a second insight from psych‑research summarized by bruce hood in his recent book self illusion concerns the role of consciousness in our decision-making . recent laboratory research shows that our conscious thinking devise , ex post , compelling rationales for a number of decisions that our brains tend to make unconsciously . former us president george w. bush , for example , may have chosen to invade iraq and topple saddam hussein for many reasons : strategic advantages , humanitarian concern and even competition with his father . the most involved neither weapons of mass destruction , nor the use of torture .
other factors , in addition to trade policy , also matter for business , of course . the protection of property rights , civil and political liberties , protection from random violence include other significant drivers of the promotion of economic growth in the us . fiscal restraint , reflected by low government consumption relative to income growth , also holds important implications . geographic location also matters because , as it is distance from markets , bad climates and poor soils impede economic growth in developing countries . but this makes open trade policies all the more critical for it , for the best tools at hand to compensate for the bad cards that nature sometimes addresses .
durham , north carolina – my day starts the world cup with coffee with the end of hot chocolate , with a world cup of coffee producing an end with the world cup . between , i consume a variety of food and medicine , including my daily 81 mg dose of aspirin . a rightly colorful orchid enlivens my study , and through a window , i can catch a glimpse of my green garden . in short , my life – like all – is enabled , enriched and extended by a wide variety of plants , and derivatives , in the us . but the biodiversity on which all of us depend is under threat , since human activity “ bestates forests ” and other plant-rich habitats .
ramallah – israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s decision to approve the new jewish settlements on the eve of a possible settlement freeze is the latest round in a cycle that has been repeated so much over the last 40 years that it would seem mundane if it were n’t so dangerous . the cycle goes something like this : american or international pressure mounts about israel to stop settlement activity in the occupied territories . israeli settlers and their supporters then rally even more energy for expanding onto more palestinian land , building more exclusively jewish settlements , and destroying more arab homes , than what it called a “ freeze ” comes into effect . the peace process , not surprisingly , becomes a joke . ultimately , the world ’s subside pressures and freeze fail to materialize .
san francisco – there is a big difference between the us federal reserve ’s mandate for maintaining “ stable prices ” – because enunciated in the federal reserve ’s act – with the fed ’s self-chosen 2 % annual inflation target . so how is it that policymakers have managed to substitute the latter for the former ? the concept of “ stable prices ” is self-explanatory : a bundle of goods will cost the same $ 10 or $ 50 , or even 100 years from now . on the other hand , if a country experiences 2 % inflation over a ten-year period , the same items that $ 100 can buy today will cost $ 122 at the end of the decade . after 100 years , the price tag will be a whopping $ 724 .
as a liberal myself , i share these values , but recognize that insisting on them as matters of policy ultimately undermines the interests of migrants . with vehemently anti-immigrant political forces gaining ground throughout europe , one must ask whether newcomers desperate for a job are better served by admitted on a conditional basis ( including , potentially , for the limited period at a limited moment ) or by not having admitted at all . skills-biased immigration gives rise to a similar dilemma . many in europe argue that this approach not only discriminates against the weakest groups of immigrants , but also results in a brain drain away from the highly skilled countries that need them . again , however , one must explore the trade-off .
eu reforms were decided from high above without any grassroots support - and therefore no lasting durability - for all . all of us were direct appeals to the street and the masses rather than encouragement of genuine social consensus . such a direct method is the wellspring of authoritarianism in its own way . one must recognize that and understand that it emerges not only as an apathetic or frightened public , but also when no apparent stable advanced guard exists , such as powerful political parties that choose and control the leader . as a result , russia is now confronting a situation in which president-elect donald trump is the only political matter .
likewise , greece ’s has now been 49.3 % , but its ratio amounts to just over 13 % . and the eurozone-wide rate of 20.8 % well exceeds the 8.7 % ratio . to be sure , the youth-unemployment ratio for 13 % or 19 % is not grounds for complacency . but , while the eurozone ’s youth unemployment rate has risen since 2009 , its ratio remains the same ( albeit well below pre-2008 levels – the highest level ) for the us . during the 2006 french student protests , france ’s 22 % youth unemployment rate appeared to compare favorably with the 11 % rate and 12 % , and 13 % in the united kingdom , the us and germany – respectively .
alternatively , china could eventually become a new supplier of reserve assets . in this scenario , providing reserve asset would align itself with fast-growing regions of the world . that connectivity could be direct if the renminbi acquires reserve-currency status ; or indirect if the international monetary fund ’s unit of account , special drawing rights , becomes a favored reserve manager ’s asset , because the renminbi is now basket of sdr currency . reserve status for the sdr is a long-held imf ambition though the notion never gained much traction . but there is a third possibility : global demand for us reserve assets may subside .
trump has pledged to enact sweeping tax cuts , including the cuts in corporate tax rates from 35 % to 15 % . add to that plans to subsidize infrastructure investment and boost military expenditure , and the us appears likely to face rapid fiscal deficits and a huge short-term increase in demand . with the american economy already operating near full capacity ( the unemployment rate at less than 5 % ) , higher imports – and a stronger us dollar – will require meeting that demand . all of that will be good for europe , for which the us remains a leading export market . but it is the peripheral countries that are most likely to be benefiting from the us .
princeton – over the past century , economic-policy discourse has been locked in orbit around respective roles and virtues of state and market . does market control of the state , in the sense that it sets limits upon governments ’ ability to borrow ? or does state take charge when markets fail to perform socially indispensable functions – for example , fighting wars or maintaining full employment ? this old debate is at the heart of today ’s profound divisions over how europeans should respond to its debt crisis . the same question is dividing american politics in the lead-up to november ’s us presidential and congressional elections .
british negotiators will then respond to eu negotiators ’ domino-theory logic by trying to make the process as painful a way for the rest of the eu . indeed , the uk ’s “ leave ” constituency already believes firmly that the uk would be better off by itself , and that brexit hurts europeans in much more than hurts britons . this means that the leave camp has powerful incentives to fulfill its own prophecy . the second doom loop applies to the uk ’s domestic political economy . britain can not simply start beating europeans at their own game by reviving its auto industry , or by making its own wine to rival french and italian producers .
the over-domestic demand that underpinned that evolution is now gone , permanently . when deleveraging is full , domestic spending can rebound , but saving rates will not and should not return to zero . fiscal stimulus , in the form of backloading deficit-reduction efforts , could help tide the economy over while structural adjustment and widening competitiveness in the tradable sector continue . by definition , however , stimulus alone is not the answer . otherwise , a shortfall in domestic demand would reassert itself when the stimulus ended .
so the american goal of regime change in baghdad seems not simply too bad , even if it can not publicly support it . for president putin , it is making sense to stay on the sidelines over iraq , at least for now , and to be repaid later on his helpful silence with the us on a successor iraq regime concerning repayment of russia ’s debts . if the america war in iraq fails , the situation will hardly be worse than it is now from the narrow point of view of russian interests , while the resulting mess will compound america and its traditional allies , rather than russia . the contrast between russia ’s handling of iraq and iran ’s underlines not just mr putin ’s famous pragmatism , but the sophistication and adroitness of his policy . this contrast also reflects the crucial distinction between iran , the historic nation state , and the artificial creation of the us that constitutes iraq .
kosovo ’s skepticism about serbia ’s democratic credentials comes first from , mainly from the knowledge that conflict between kosovo and serbia is structural , not based on a single man . no matter how much milosevic exacerbated tensions , his policies toward kosovo ’s ethnic albanians were genuinely popular among serbs . indeed , throughout yugoslavia ’s wars decades ago , serbia ’s attitude towards its minorities reflected a nationalist consensus in which the bulk of what was then the opposition participated . most kosovars will find talk with serbia about improved relations difficult when serbia does not undergo some sort of “ de-nazification ” process . president kostunica ’s refusal , so far , to even discussing putting war criminals on trial is not a hopeful women in the world .
finally , economic sanctions compelled qaddafi to distance himself from international terror and turn over megrahi – just as another suspect , lamin fhima , who was subsequently acquitted – to face the scottish tribunal in camp zeist in holland . but there was never conclusive evidence that megrahi was involved in lockerbie bombing . in effect , most experts still believe that he was convicted for using fraudulent evidence and bribing witnesses . moreover , libya has formally embraced responsibility for bombing , agreeing to pay more than $ 2 billion to victims ’ families and abandon its weapons of a program of mass destruction . yet , despite qaddafi ’s hopes for a warmer embrace , from western leaders ( and the flood of investment ) , the relationship , despite qaddafi ’s hope , has been marred by mutual suspicion and frequent backsliding .
this experience motivated him to establish his dangote academy , an talent development center that seeks to help fill nigeria ’s industrial-skill gap , and beyond . such initiatives are crucial to aligning the education with economic development and enhanced prosperity that is crucial . by 2040 , africa will have 1.1 billion working-age citizens – more than either india or china . with the right education , skills , and job opportunities , that immense workforce could deliver quick and sustainable economic growth for the region as a whole . without it , the continent is more likely to experience rising unemployment , widening inequality , social disorder , and finally conflict and chaos .
another young woman ’s husband , aisha , cut off their nose and ears when she ran away . violence against women in afghanistan persists for many reasons . first , the country inherited patriarchal tribal traditions which assumes a woman ’s inferiority . women are thus deprived of their basic rights and freedoms in their homes . second , there is a powerful political impetus to deprive women of their rights .
but entering europe ’s economic and monetary union was meant to induce the political system to pursue longer-term goals such as productivity growth and enhanced competitiveness . in the first place , events played out under the plan . during greece ’s accession period , from 1994 to 2001 , its economies stabilized . in both inflation and fiscal deficits , both fell faster ; businesses and consumers became more confident ; investment picked up ; and the government introduced an ambitious liberalizing reform package . annual gdp growth jumped from -1.6 % in 1993 to more than 4 % in 1997 – and stayed around that level until 2007 .
in fact , the european parliament , for its part , has already broadly backed such a move . momentum toward hfo phase-out in the arctic is building . the danish shipowners ’ association and the arctic expeditionary expeditionary operator hurtigruten are just two of the players calling for tighter regulation , or outright prohibition . other shipping firms have highlighted the need for regulations to keep the playing field in line . in january 2017 , hurtigru10 joined the clean arctic alliance to launch the arctic ’s commitment .
john f. kennedy was little of both , and even a little of it , either . he did one great deal , at least for example , to resolve the cuban missile crisis . and his gift to motivating people was unmatched ; indeed , he outlasted it , with his assassination cementing a powerful legacy , was a powerful one . in africa , there has been no grand figure since south african president nelson mandela ’s death , who combined courage , authority , and magnanimity in graciously abundance . in fact , he is among the most charismatic and charming leaders i met ; the other is former united nations secretary-general kofi annan and former us secretary of state colin powell – also an african or african-american .
sanibel – restoring diplomatic relations between cuba and the united states has unlocks fresh prospects for the island ’s economy . some steps , including dismantling the american trade embargo , are forbidden by the helms-halliburton act , passed by the american congress in 1996 . but rebuilding cuba ’s membership in the international monetary fund offers real possibilities . cuba was one of the imf ’s 40 original members . it involved much preliminary plans for the 1944 bretton woods conference and had active delegations there .
it goes without saying that academic or technical expertise is neither necessary nor sufficient to ensure the success of government officials . indeed , many from colleagues in my harvard colleagues would make dire policymakers , owing to a lack of managerial , managerial , or other interpersonal skills . and many excellent political leaders – such as george washington and dwight eisenhower among the presidents – were not intellectuals . technocrats can play an useful role as honest brokers when traditional politicians became discredited or parties deadlocked . moreover , they have the credibility to come with a lack of yearning to be re-elected , either because their term in office was limited upfront or because they are known to prefer a quiet academic life .
today , massive investments in critical infrastructure , industrial expansion , and urban development – vitally important to accommodate an expanding global population , set to reach nine trillion by 2050 – are being made without adequate regard to disaster risk . amid the failure of a comprehensive effort to protect these new economic assets , disaster-related costs will skyrocket in the coming decades . in this sense , climate-change forecasts should challenge policymakers and business leaders to calibrate their perceptions of exposure and disaster risk . decision-makers must recognize that no such thing is happening as a natural disaster ; only there is the catastrophic impact on natural hazards to infrastructure , including workplaces , homes , roads , schools , and hospitals . following the 2004 indian ocean tsunami – which devastated the 11 countries ’ coastlines , resulting in over 150,000 deaths , half-million injuries , and more than $ 10 billion in damages – 168 governments agreed to the hyogo framework for action ( hfa ) , a comprehensive ten-year plan for disaster-risk reduction .
two years ago , scientists from nature conservancy and its partners published new research showcasing nature-based solutions ’ potential to fight climate change , the un ’s most ambitious research showcasing has yet to be seen . yet nature-based solutions have continued to attract relatively little attention – and even less funding . fortunately , this may be starting to change . in september , nature-based solutions featured prominently at the un climate week in new york city . while that event did not live up to un secretary-general antónio guterres ’s call on “ clear steps toward enhancing nationally determined contributions through 2020 , ” it offered a platform for a new climate and nature advocate .
just a few weeks ago , in fact , the administration has been forced to concede that rouhani is fulfilling his part of the nuclear deal . indeed , iranians ’ show of popular support for rouhani provides the best guarantee that the spirit behind the nuclear deal will remain unchanged . but trump will not make rouhani more easy . to ensure that iran continues to progress toward the international engagement process – thereby protecting a nuclear deal that trump is not eager to defend – rouhani ’s administration will have to work hard to improve relations with neighboring countries . moreover , he will need to adopt a more constructive position vis-à-vis the syrian conflict , making it clear that iran is not spearheading the shia liberation movements .
ludicrous cases go ahead , and more people are being drawn into them . mainstream independent media report no inconsistencies for fear of provoking or gülen ’s network of government . in the end , these cases will collapse under the weight of their collective absurdity . but the damage done will extend far beyond the suffering of the hundreds of innocent individuals who have been locked up under false pretenses . the hope that turkey is finally shedding its authoritarian vestiges and becoming a stable democracy will lie in tatters .
likewise , in july , the g-20 created a “ contingent reserve arrangement ” that it would have claimed , “ forestall short-term balance of payments pressures , provide mutual support and further strengthens financial stability . ” but russia is not quite likely to draw on this emergency credit line during the current crisis . more recently , chinese foreign minister wang yi pledged assistance to russia . yet his ambiguous language reflects more hesitation that will most likely persist until the crisis is over . in short , both western-dominated governance mechanisms and fledgling institutions have turned against russia .
they will also try to reduce japan ’s dependence on exports and rethink sending manufacturing facilities into lower-wage countries . america ’s economic impact on politics , while important , will be less dynamic : absent a more cooperative congress , politics will mute policy responses , rather than fuel greater activism . continued congressional polarization would maintain political uncertainty , confound debt and deficit negotiations , and impede economic growth . from its medium-term fiscal reforms to delaying the required overhauls of the labor and housing market , congressional dysfunction would keep us economic performance below its capacity ; over time , it would also devour away at potential output . in other countries , the causal direction will run primarily from economics to politics ; in particular , it will run the course .
paris – the riots that rampaged over greece may have many causes , but one that is rarely mentioned is the fracturing of the greek left into george papandreou ’s traditional socialist party , pasok , and increasingly radicalized faction that refuses all accommodation with either the european union or modern economics . to varying degrees , such a divide is paralyzing socialist parties across europe . that the conventional left is so inert in the midst of today ’s economic crisis more than strange . instead of thriving on renewed doubts about crony capitalism , europe ’s socialist parties have failed to make serious political inroads . in countries where they hold power , like spain , they are now very unpopular . where they are in the opposition , as in france and italy , is in disarray – because they are germany ’s social democrats , despite being part of the ruling grand coalition .
the response to 9/11 and dominique strauss-kahn ’s more recent encounter with an african maid in the new york hotel has little in common except one thing : again , cultural conflict has been invoked in misleading ways . whatever happened between former managing director general of the international monetary fund and his accuser , the fact that he was arrested and paraded against the press as a criminal suspect has been much criticized in france . one allegation , made most recently by a well-known french publicist , is that the arrest was typical of a typical american puritanism . the french , he supposedly from a latin culture , have a more liberal understanding of sexual behavior . they are more tolerant of human frailties , and have a refined appreciation of seduction .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
they have reason to be proud of all , because they are so confident that they have a faith . self-confidence among rulers is the psychological springs of democracy and true freedom , and they can never once again be diverted in our homeland . nobody ever doubted that ukraine had greatly transformed itself within its 12 years of independence . yet , caught in a barrel of sights , no sooner – not even the brave men and women who camped up in their hundreds of thousands of snow before ukraine ’s parliament – knew with certain assurance of whether those changes have driven ukrainians from the grip of fear and apathy . the success of their defiance shows the power of the idea that bewilders outgoing president leonid kuchma and his acolytes : that democracy means assuming responsibility to take one ’s fate into one ’s own hands .
israeli prime ministers are to come in two varieties : heavily accented eastern european men and grizzled military officers who talked good on the side before acquiescing to the latest american or international demands for concessions , talks , and aid . while previous prime ministers like menachem begin and yitzhak shamir were averse not to lecturing , they lacked strategic cunning . netanyahu ’s unwillingness to compromise “ axis ii , ” confuses , and often enrages americans . his relentless disquisitions on israel ’s strategic environment , security requirements , red lines , and jewish history offset only conciliatory talk of re-opening negotiations that are instantly rejecting palestinians who , like him , fear showing weakness . moreover , netanyahu ’s unsentimental assessment of the middle east fails to match with the obama administration – in thrall to his collapsing romance with moderate islamists – and his dedicated supporters among jewish americans .
followers are more likely to attribute charisma to leaders when they feel a strong need for change , often against the personal , organizational , or social crisis . the british public , for example , did not regard winston churchill as an charismatic leader in 1939 , but a year later , its vision , confidence , and communication skills gave him charisma , given britons ’ anxiety after the fall of france and the dunkirk evacuation . and then , in 1945 , after public focus turned from winning the war to constructing a welfare state , churchill voted out of office . his charisma did not foresee defeat ; change of followers ’ needs did . in practice , charisma is the ambiguous synonym for the “ personal magnetism ” .
the government also secured eu-wide treaties that , rather than reducing the size of the european commission , will be permitted to retain the permanent eu at the commission table . this negotiating success provided a government with considerable breathing space to conduct a more effective referendum campaign , as well . this combination of legal guarantees and changed economic circumstances is helping to mobilize a majority in favor of the treaty . opinion polls conducted in recent weeks indicate that the yes side commands a strong majority of 62 % to 23 % , with 15 % of voters undecided . but the picture is far from clear-cut .
a decision to reject a merger , or authorize an investment that benefits a politically motivated foreign competitor , may make economic sense , while raising eyebrows in foreign-policy circles . the solution is not to meddle with competition rules , but to give those in charge of security some say in the decision-making process . to that end , in a forthcoming paper , i co-authored with foreign-policy experts and other economists , we suggest that the eu has a high representative for foreign affairs and security concerns that are given the right to object on security grounds to the european commission ’s proposed mergers or investment decisions . eu member states already have such practices . finally , the eu must do more to develop its financial toolkit and to promote international use of europe .
a newly passed bill – clearly directed at israeli arabs ’ representatives at the knesset ( parliament ) – would allow mks to be dismissed for disloyalty to the state . ngos focused on human rights and peacemaking are scrutinized as foreign agents . for israel , democracy has always been a strategic asset , because , in the western alliance , a democratic israel was a natural fits . while the west has lost no time in imposing sanctions against president vladimir putin ’s russia following its annexation of crimea , it has not punished israel ’s occupation of palestinian lands . the more israel embraces putin-inspired practices , though , the weaker becomes its link to its strategic rearguard in the west .
in kosovo limiting intervention to aerial bombardment has made such a strategy total success : nato powers suffered not as a single casualty in the fight , but roughly 300 kosovar , 209 serb , and three chinese civilians have been killed . this approach to duties by a national leader stated bluntly and honestly , forces us officials to view a fundamental ethical issue . to what extent should political leaders see their own role narrowly , in terms of their citizens ’ own interests and what extent should they be concerned with the well-being of people everywhere ? mr romano prodi , the eu commission president , and italy ’s former prime minister , have responded to president bush ’s most recent declaration by saying that “ if one wants to be a world leader , one must know how to look after the entire earth and not just to american industry . ” but the issue is not just one for those who aspire to be the leaders of the world .
on both of these fronts , the eu ’s lack of strategic vision has created the impression that europe is being out-maneuvered repeatedly by russian president vladimir putin . it increasingly appears that ukraine is becoming locked in a “ frozen conflict ” – russia ’s foreign-policy specialty . indeed , ukraine ’s predicament represents a tactical victory for russia , with its fragile but enduring ceasefire – and accompanying legislation that grants donetsk and luhansk considerable political autonomy – enabling russians to entrench the conflict in the near eu . in addition , the eu ’s delayed implementation of key elements of the association agreement with ukraine is clear evidence that at the moment russia dictates the perspective of eu-ukrainian engagement . in europe , the kremlin has been able to pursue a successful divide-and-rule strategy , notably given hungary ’s decision to suspend gas flows into ukraine .
with a weak dollar hanging like the sword of damocles over the global economy , almost everybody laments america ’s spendthrift habits . but has it ever occurred to someone how hard americans must work to make everyone else look good ? because of america ’s gaping trade deficits , the biggest headache of any developing country ’s finance minister nowadays , the us is trying to keep its or her country ’s currency from going too fast against the dollar . when was the last time that has occurred ? the chronic debt-crisis countries from mexico to russia to south koreans are all fighting capital inflows from investors looking for an exit as the dollar collapses .
new york – hurricane harvey is left in their wake upended lives and enormous wealth damage , estimated by some $ 150-180 billion . but the rains that inundated texas coast to the better part of the week ; and the hurricane that is about to hit southern florida have also raised deep questions about the united states ’ economic system and politics . it is ironic , of course , that the event so consequential as the climate action would occur in a nation home to such climate-change deniers – and where the us economy will depend so heavily on the fossil fuels that drive global warming . of course , no specific climate event can be directly related to the increase in greenhouse gases . yet scientists have long predicted that such increases would boost not only average temperatures , but also weather variability – and especially the occurrence of extreme events like hurricane harvey .
rather than banding together , each new challenge has divided the eu into ever-smaller groups . europe has divided north and south ; ukraine and the refugee crisis have divided eastward and west . pro-europeans have had to entrench themselves with sources of discontent , and rethink the types used to make europe the ideal . the eu has been based on mechanical ideas that interdependence would reduce conflict . by aligning european means to production jointly – first through the european coal and steel community , and later through both the common market - and european - europe hoped that it would bind europe ’s states together to such an extent that war between them would no longer be an option .
in nigeria today , the key question today is not whether president olusegun obasanjo is about to quit after his second ( and final ) term expires next year , but who will succeed him . given nigeria 's history of sit-tight military dictatorships , that is genuine progress . unfortunately , the president 's attempts by obasanjo 's supporters to convince the national assembly to amend the constitution to allow obasanjo to continue in office beyond two terms met with a solid opposition wall . government and commercial activity practically ground to halt this spring as democracy activists , alliance and politicians opposed a third term , battled obasanjo 's allies to thwart the proposed bill .
parfit ’s response to this argument line leads it to assert that , in ethics , it may even be bolder than its advocacy of objectivism . it views three leading theories as what we ought to do – one deriving from kant , one from hobbes ’s social-contract traditions , locke , rousseau , and contemporary philosophers john rawls and t.m. scanlon , and one from bentham ’s utilitarianism – argues that kantian and social-contract theories must be revised toward defensible action . after that , he argues , these revised theories coincide with a particular form of uyghentialism , which is a theory of equal magnitude within the same broad family as utilitarianism . if parfit is right , there is much less disagreement among seemingly conflicting moral theories than we all thought . defenders of each of these theories are in parfit ’s vivid phrase , “ climbing the same mountain on different sides . ”
with the rise of the corporate corporation , big family firms have generally disappeared . but that does not mean that the corporation is the right actor to engage in altruism – however obviously , its various stakeholders can spend any part of the income to which it has earned from the company and other sources in altruistic ways . instead of csr , the us should have psr ( personal social responsibility ) . one can also argue for csr on the grounds that asking for csr becomes a “ passing buck ” way – avoidance of personal responsibility for doing good . this is the flip side of blaming corporations for everything from obesity to scalding from spilled coffee – both of which have been subject to lawsuits in recent years .
tokyo – hillary clinton ’s recent trip to asia one day can be seen as the most meaningful visit to the region by united nations diplomat henry kissinger ’s secret mission in july 1971 . kissinger ’s mission triggered the diplomatic revolutions . the resurgence of us-chinese relations shifted global balance of power at the height of the cold war , and prepared the way that china would open its economy to its side – a decision that , more than any other , defined today ’s world . what clinton did , and stated during her asian tour , would mark either the end of the era that kissinger initiated four decades ago , or the start of a distinct new phase in this epoch . clinton ’s tour produced the clearest signals yet that america remains reluctant to embrace china ’s push for regional hegemony .
chinese demand is not just growing , but , because incomes are rising , its composition is shifting to more sophisticated goods and services . as a result , china ’s role is changing : once it becomes a west supplier of low-cost manufacturing , it is now becoming a prominent consumer of western products . this represents major opportunities for the advanced economies to rebalance their growth and employment , provided they compete for the appropriate components of evolving supply chains . rising chinese incomes are also implying structural change for china , because continued growth presupposes the shift toward higher-value activities . still , technology-related technologies and knowledge will still play a key role , but in addition to the absorption of western tools and skills , china will have to begin .
historically , french diplomacy excels at grand bargains . but , under merkel , germany has evaded such agreements , preferring a status quo or incremental change , as it typically wound up paying extra . for its part , macron ’s hyper-active diplomacy exposes a post-imperial inferiority complex ; the symptoms that have – whether brexit or putinism – are impeding european normalization ; and is hampering the fact that the eu is mobilization in order to counterbalance china and the united states . macron ’s rhetoric indicates that he wants to fight these symptoms . but his recent actions seem reproducing them .
dublin – europe ’s needs and europeans ’ aspirations are in odds . at a time when strong , coordinated action is needed to stave off the financial meltdown in the european union , popular support that drove european integration over the past six decades has faded . after nearly 70 years of peace , europeans seem to have forgotten why unity has become so essential , indulging nationalist sentiment without regard for its potential consequences . at the same time , they fail to grasp that their economies are too intimately interconnected for independent economic policies to work . this failure is rooted in electoral politics ’ confinement of individual countries , which forces politicians to pretend that they will be able to address economic issues on their own .
skeptics have a point , but they go too far . for one thing , the outlook is still too early to tell . a full assessment of the iraq war and its effects on the middle east will last ten years or more . clearly , the january 2005 elections have been on the regional issue . there have been national elections in lebanon in the last six months , and the local elections in saudi arabia have taken place in saudi arabia , in recent months .
in 1989 , the peoples of the region brought with them in their “ return to europe ” their diversity and richness ; their vivacity and mysteries , and memory ; and their old and new aspirations . and they brought the lesson that moving from behind a sealed society to open up is both possible and extremely difficult . as thomas mann once wrote , “ freedom is more complicated than power . ” freedom changes the frame and substance of choice , and the individual and collective accountability of individual . it highlights the contrast between initiative and apathy , enterprise and obedience , competition , and total dependence on a state that embodies a kind of unshakable destiny .
cambridge – major tax reform is high on a united states agenda in 2017 . the republican-controlled house of representatives has been making preparations for this for years for the creation of detailed plans to overhaul how corporate and personal income are taxed . now , with the republican majority in the senate and the white house president , those plans can provide the basis for legislative action . the proposed corporate-tax reform is particularly significant . i believe that it will have a highly favorable impact on business investment , boosting productivity , and overall economic growth .
this alliance between the two parties led to serious distortions in fundamental western values . palme and oskar lafontaine , then one of the opposition ’s leaders in germany , saw no cold war as primarily a conflict between freedom and tyranny . when palme visited east germany in 1984 , he never criticized repression there or the berlin wall . instead , palme praised east german leader erich honecker underscoring shared goals and mutual struggle for peace and evolution . palme ’s main manifesto mentioned “ détente , ” “ trust . ”
another type of revolution occurred in europe of former colonies in asia , where native peoples had no desire to be ruled by once more western powers had been ignominiously defeated by japan . vietnamese , indonesians , filipinos , burmese , indians and malays were too eager for freedom . those aspirations were often voiced in the united nations , established in 1945 . the un , like the dream of european unity , was also part of the post-1945 consensus . for a short time , many prominent people – albert einstein , for one – believed that only world government would be able to ensure global peace .
guided by one of the architects of the problem , hank paulson , who advocated for deregulation and letting banks take on even more leveraging , it came as no surprise that the administration veered from one policy to another – each strategy supported absolute conviction until minutes to abandon it for another . even if confidence really mattered , the economy would sunk . moreover , what little action has been taken on to shoring up the financial system . but the financial crisis is only one of the few crises facing a country : the underlying macroeconomic problem was bad , by the sinking wealth of the bottom half of the population . those who would spend had no money , and those that are n’t spending .
amid a foreign-capital bonanza , stagnant levels of private investment in tradable goods represent the particularly potent danger signal that no amount of government mythmaking should be allowed to override . officials face a simple choice : maintain robust prudential controls on equity flows ; or prepare to invest a large share of resources in self-insurance by accumulating large foreign reserves . the deeper problem lies in the over-funding of the global economy that occurred in the 1990s . the policy dilemmas that have resulted – rising inequality , greater volatility , less room for real economics to manage – will continue to preoccupy policymakers in the decade ahead . it is true , but unhelpful to say that governments have only themselves to blame recklessly for having rushed into this wild ride .
even a relatively minor amount of material such as cobalt-60 – used in radiotherapy – might cause serious harm if combined with conventional explosive devices in the so-called dirty bomb ( or otherwise deliberately used to expose the public to dangerous radiation ) . foreign and energy ministers will have an opportunity to strengthen the global nuclear-security framework when they meet at the international atomic security conference : enhancing global efforts in vienna on july 1-5 . such an event will be the first such one that is open for all countries . at the top of the agenda will be to ratifications of improvements to a crucial instrument of nuclear safety – second , on the physical protection of nuclear material . the proposed amendment would oblige countries to safeguard their nuclear material when it is used or stored , and not only when they are being shipped internationally , as is now the case .
this time , the initiative came from singh , who invited his pakistani counterpart prime minister yousuf raza gilani to visit mohali near new delhi , to watch both countries play the semi-final in the cricket world cup . on march 30 , the match played out with pakistan narrowly losing the country . on the political side , however , the two countries were not evenly matched . of the troika that currently governs pakistan – the president , prime minister , and the army ’s chief personnel – it is prime minister who bears the least authority . it was gilani who sat beside singh to watch the game ; but , ultimately , process , rather than protocol , will determine what the bilateral relationship moves forward .
indonesia argues that a nation ’s right to control every information on locally discovered viruses is supposed to be protected through the same mechanisms that the united nations food and agriculture organization ( fao ) uses to guarantee poor countries ’ ownership and patents on the seeds of its indigenous plants . under the fao seeds agreement , a nation can register plants , share their seeds , and derive profit from resulting products . this useful policy reduces exploitative practices that sometimes allow multinational corporations and the wealthy governments to obtain outrageous profits from indigenous agriculture . but it is dangerous folly , which is what has been done to extend this policy to viruses . if the concept of “ viral sovereignty ” was applied 25 years ago to hiv , we would not have been the central repositories of thousands of hiv varieties today ; these allow scientists to test drugs and vaccines of all the different strains of the virus that causes aids .
the new government ’s greatest challenge will be to implement reforms that allow italy ’s economic performance to catch up to that of its neighbors after years of bad policies and neglect . this requires increased investment in innovation and human capital , including capital . from 1992 to 2011 , labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , the lowest in the oecd . since 2001 , unit labor costs have been growing faster than real gdp and employment , undermining the economy ’s competitiveness vis-à-vis the developing world . in the past decade , italy ’s share of world exports has fallen from 3.9 % to 2.9 % .
but technical capabilities are not the only or even the underlying issue . conflicting motivations are probably the more important reason why citizens increasingly distrust experts . at the same time , there is a misconception at work in the workplace . policy wonks tend to think of itself as unbiased purveyors of high-quality , evidence-based advice . informed citizens are reasonably fearful of being wonk in question ; that the advice may be in thrall to an particular ideology or methodology ; that the counsel may be politically motivated ; or that advisers may tailor their counsel to his own career concerns ( how to get this plum job on wall street after leaving government , for example ) .
whichever party combination emerges on top -- and helmut kohl 's coalition still has to be viewed as a narrow favorite -- enjoys a meager majority , depending on any major initiative on his political adversaries ' unlikely support . thus , germany seems destined to become stuck in the doldrums for some time to come . the price of inaction remains considerable . while exports are booming , unemployment remains stubbornly high . disillusionment with politics has increased and may even bring down right-wing populists that democratic germany has so far been spared .
europe ’s position as the world ’s largest trading bloc , with almost 40 % of all international commerce , and europe ’s growing significance – crisis despite , as a reserve currency implies , the eu , just like america , can set the agenda for negotiating a new global rulebook . the difference is that america acts decisively . of course , europe occupies the moral high ground that america has mostly vacated , owing to its mis-adventures in iraq and afghanistan . european leadership on climate change and development aid could be , if well handled , the basis of a new moral authority for it . but there is little sign that governments assume this opportunity .
madrid – having secured his fifth term ( and his fourth in a row ) as israel ’s prime minister , binyamin netanyahu is on his way to surpassing david ben-gurion , the founding father of state , as his country ’s longest-serving leader . yet netanyahu ’s israel would hardly have been recognizable to ben-gurion , who strived to combine the country ’s jewish character with democracy . as l.p. hartley wrote when the go-between : “ the past is the foreign country : they are doing things very differently . ” following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us may well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
in september 2008 , for example , former us president roman herzog published a polemic entitled to “ stop the ecj ! ” in response , he accused the luxembourg judges of grabbing ever-greater competences at the expense of member states , and urged the constitutional court to invalidate several controversial ecj rulings . herzog broadside resonated throughout europe , where , for some time , there has been considerable disquiet about “ judicial activism ” ( ecj ) , and what some view as an irreversible trend toward the empowerment of ecj and other eu institutions . in many eu member states , the ecj ’s decisions have generated a backlash , especially on the left , with business unions and social-welfare movements targeting court ’s supposed zeal in siding with business over workers ’ interests . such arguments were deployed successfully during the 2005 referenda on both the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands , and in ireland during the lisbon treaty ’s referendum .
at the same time , countries must facilitate workers ’ capacity to change the job force through reforms to their labor markets and their social safety net . that means shifting the focus from backward-looking labor-market policies , which seek to protect workers in existing jobs , toward future-oriented measures , such as innovative insurance mechanisms and active labor-market policies . furthermore , the social contract based on formal long-term employer-employee relationships will be needed to overhauled , with benefits , such as retirement and health care , forcing more portable and adaptable to evolving labor-market arrangements , including an expanding gig economy . herein lies several proposals , including universal basic income , currently piloted in finland , and some sub-national jurisdictions such as ontario , canada ; a negative earned income tax ; and the various types of portable social security accounts that pool worker benefits . on both these fronts , france is establishing a positive example .
as brig. g. general robert caslen , the pentagon ’s deputy director for the terrorism war , put it , “ we are not killing it any faster than they are being created . ” the us , too , is failing in applying soft power . according to caslen , “ we in the pentagon lie behind our adversaries in using communication – either to recruit or train . ” the kind of manner in which the us uses military power also influences rumsfeld ’s ratio . in the aftermath of 9/11 , there was a good deal of sympathy and understanding around the world for america ’s military response to the taliban .
our study concludes that india can have faster economic and industrial growth , higher rates of energy use , and cleaner environments . but that is far from what has happened so far . air , soil , and water pollution have been rising ; this has caused hundreds of thousands of deaths per year in the last few years alone . the key to a clean future is clean technology whose costs have declined steadily , and will continue to do so . sometimes those technologies pay for themselves , and will be adopted .
the private sector also brings innovation into the classroom . for example , some providers are developing classroom models of teaching where students can watch the “ teacher ” created videos online outside of class , in order to ensure that precious “ learning ” students face time can focus on interacting rather than lecturing . similarly , skilled teachers can now deliver interactive e-learning lessons to many classrooms in one place at once , even though they are hundreds of miles away . as a result , students in places where schools have not yet been built , or too few qualified teachers , can still obtain an education . after all , a lecture from a good teacher – even as it is broadcast over the internet – is preferable to face time with an untrained adult .
the obama administration has already moved against chinese exports of tires and steel pipes , but the confrontation this year will extend well beyond trade . when the us congress is taking up the discussion over climate change , for example , with some us lawmakers calling for the us to cap-and-trade system , others will require to know why america should accept binding emissions-reduction commitments whereas the chinese refuse to do so . china ’s leaders in no mood to play the scapegoat will use surging national pride to reinforce their standing and bolster their hand in the talks . in recent years , the chinese government has invested heavily in state-owned companies and privately-owned “ national champions , ” mostly to guarantee that china gains from markets ’ power while the administration controls as much spoils as possible . to help these domestic powerhouses increase their market leverage , the government often favors them at the expense of foreign competitors .
yet , faced by the possibility that low inflation today might be caused by permanent supply shocks , they are also reluctant to ease further now . so , while central banks are not even willing and willing , in the short term , to abandon their official 2 % annual inflation target , they are willing to prolong the timeline for achieving it , as they have done time and again , effectively conceding that inflation may stay low for longer . otherwise , they would need to sustain for much longer their unconventional monetary policies , including quantitative easing and negative policy rates – an attitude with which most central banking ( with the possible possible exception of the bank of japan ) is not comfortable . this central bank patience risks de-anchoring inflation expectations downward . but continuing for much longer with unconventional monetary policies also carries the risks of undesirable asset-price inflation , excessive credit expansion , and bubbles .
to reach agreement on a similar degree of scale and influence , world leaders – particularly in the us and brazil – would have to be under similarly high strain . a global pact would need to be urgent necessity , rather than attractive options . what should persuade chinese leaders that they must rapidly reinforce an open global economy that , in a sense , enabled china ’s export-driven economic rise ? one such catalyst might be the financial crisis emanating from the country of risk-loaded shadow-banking system . a contest for global leadership might serve this purpose just as much .
winston churchill ’s famous denunciation of the british ’ delaying tactics on the eve of world war ii should be a warning to french president nicolas sarkozy . in fanning vicious anti-immigrant passions for the short-term political gain , he will have dishonor first , and then defeat . for , though a majority of french today may be inclined to sympathize with sarkozy ’s immigrant-bashing rhetoric , there is little guarantee that they will be re-elected in 2012 . it is not so much sarkozy ’s performance as the president most frenchmen reject ; it is his essence . at a time of skyrocketing unemployment with france dominated by fears of the future , the french need a reassuring father or mother figure , not a jittery and manipulative leaderready to compromise ethics , and france ’s proud tradition that every citizen is entitled to equal treatment under the law .
millions end up in a protracted displacement , spending an estimated 25 years on average stuck in limbo uncertain when they might return home . in 2016 , developed countries should agree to accept a combined , approaching a million refugees annually , either through resettlement or through humanitarian , student , labor , and other visas . with canada alone saying that it will resettle 50,000 syrian refugees this year , that target is achievable . at the same time , the international community must encourage the integration of refugees in major host countries , such as turkey , kenya , lebanon , and jordan . as it stands , such countries are receiving only a fraction of the $ 3,000-5,000 per refugee annually required to provide adequate housing , food , health care , education , and job training during the first years of displacement .
berkeley – inequality is on the public mind almost everywhere nowadays . indeed , in the world ’s two largest democracies , india and the united states , widespread popular movements against rising inequality and elite greed are becoming highly salient issues in looming national elections . yet in both countries , some social inequality over the past couple of decades has been on the brink of decline . in india , certain historically disadvantaged groups ( especially among lower castes ) are now becoming politically assertive . the most egregious vestiges of caste discrimination are gradually disappearing .
yet unemployment continues to rise in the heavily indebted southern countries , with output continuing to lag behind germany and other northern european countries . the main reason for the lag lies in not simply low demand or large debts . there is an enormous difference between unit labor costs – real ( inflation-adjusted ) wages – in germany and heavily indebted southern countries . when the crisis began , production costs in greece were about 30 % above those of germany , which is why greece exported very little and imports very much . production costs in other heavily indebted countries were 20-25 percentage points higher than in germany .
most importantly , despite a russian army massed against the us , ukraine is embarking on the electoral campaign . next month , ukraine ’s citizens will freely choose a new president – the best rebuke possible to russian propaganda about us efforts to uphold democracy . and yet , because ukrainians are working to rebuild our country , after viktor yanukovych ’s predatory rule , we are confronting a new threat , in the form of the “ peace offensive ” – that old staple of soviet diplomacy designed to undermine western resolution . russian president vladimir putin ’s recent phone call to us president barack obama to seek renewed diplomatic talks , followed by a russian white paper on how to resolve the kremlin ’s crises make , is in fact a peace offensive offensive that is offensive to peace . putin ’s gambit is akin to the infamous yalta conference of 1945 , where joseph stalin made winston churchill and franklin d. roosevelt complicit in a division of europeans , which enslaved half of the continent for almost a half-century .
in 1973 , dimona ’s defenders downed a wayward libyan civilians airliner heading for the reactor , killing 108 people . but the 1991 persian gulf war upset whatever solace israel could take from past mistakes . iraqi scud missiles bombing bombarded tel aviv , and one came very close to clashing with dimona . hezbollah ’s bombast of northern israel in 2006 further demonstrated the country ’s vulnerability to missile strikes . and while israel ’s arrow of ballistic missile defenses that now surround dimona might be superior to the patriot system that failed in 1991 , syria ’s more advanced scuds and iran ’s shahab 3 rocket present a more capable challenge than saddam ’s projectiles .
moreover , the us federal reserve ’s ability to stimulate the us economy is constrained by the unwillingness of the rest of the world to accumulate additional dollar reserves . until a very recently , investors hoped that america ’s federal reserve would do whatever it takes to avoid recessions because it was what it did on previous occasions . now they must recognize that the fed may no longer be in a strong position to do just that . with oil , food , and other commodity companies holding the renminbi appreciating somewhat faster , the fed also needs to worry about inflation . if interest rates were reduced beyond some point , the dollar would come under renewed pressure , and long-term bonds would actually have gone ahead of yield .
and , when they marry and have children of her own , she or she or she will benefit from two educated , employ parents that mean twice the amount of literate conversation in her home , twice contacts , and twice encouragement to succeed . educated , pushy mothers make all the difference . as us secretary of state hillary clinton put it at the newsweek issue , “ the world needs a more strategically and creatively view of tapping into the potential of women to boost growth . studies show that helping women access trade and grow firms helps create jobs and boost incomes . ” but , at worst , on the planet , forcing the uneducated women to stay at home is also more socially acceptable than faced with the means to drag down incomes for everyone .
one of the factors driving the uk ’s sense of unease in its relationships with an increasingly bureaucratized europe is its belief that its values and institutions are closer to those of the us or to any other english-speaking former colonies . by the 1990s , the british euro-skeptics coined the term anglosphere ” to describe a model more successful and expansionary than that of the eu . the us was the “ other woman , ” undermining britain ’s loyalty to the eu as an attractive permanent partner . consequently , britain has lost a much of its capabilities to make the eu an effective contribution to european reform . indeed , the last time britain had a strong european voice was more than two decades ago .
but the battle between pro- and anti-european appeals masking what really is at stake - and thus what should be the focus of electoral debate : how europe can generate sustained economic growth . this is the question , rather than an endless line of defense against euroskepticism , should be the main item of deliberation for parties that have been pressing for an improved europe for all . broad-based recovery -- investment , demand for , and employment -- is the best weapon with which to confront those who would wreck the european project . the upcoming elections will render the public 's verdict on the success or failure of austerity policies undertaken . but they will determine how europe can remain the global leader in the world 's leading economic powerhouses , maintain its model of social institutions , and safeguard its framework for rights and liberties in a world that will not wait for europeans to resolve their differences .
then there is the concept of systemic risk , which not only beholder ’s eye , but it may be impossible to predict . mexico , for its part , saw the 1994-1995 mexican crisis as a systemic risk from washington , but not from most european capitals . americans thought europeans parochial ; they thought the u.s. disproportionately influenced its 2000 mile border with mexico . all agree that ecuador posed no systemic risk ( albeit with emergency ! ) , but what about brazil ? and who , prior to july 1998 , thought that a russian default would trigger a global financial crisis ?
southern european members must lower their wage costs to claw back the competitiveness that they have lost since adopting the common currency . concerns about such divergences have also reached a task force headed by european union president herman van rompuy to devise fundamental reforms to the intra-eu economic policy coordination rules . the key draft from the task force ’s first meeting was to develop competitiveness indicators and then force member countries to take “ remedial action ” ( s) , should the eu find large divergences . but this approach risks leading in the wrong direction . competitiveness , usually measured when unit labor costs are measured , is a relative concept .
mexico city – during the spanish civil war , thousands of young americans went to spain to join the fight against fascism as part of the “ abraham lincoln brigade . ” nowadays , as more people wake up to the threat that american president donald trump poses to us president donald trump ’s rule of law , human rights , and the transnational order , a new global resistance movement is emerging to defend democracy and basic decency . opposition can adopt three tactics . one approach is simply to wait and hoping that trump is turning into a lame duck , by damdamming revelations of his administration . better yet , trump may be impeached , or removed from office , under a 25th amendment to america ’s constitution , if enough members of his own administration view him as incapable of fulfilling the duties of the presidency .
none would do more to make the world less dangerous than a substantial reduction in its consumption of oil . and no single measure would do more to reduce global oil consumption than a sharp increase in the country ’s gasoline tax , which consumes more than any other : the us . were americans to have to pay more for gasoline , they would use less of it . with gasoline prices soaring , alternative sources of energy such as ethanol and alternative forms of transportation , such as electrically powered automobiles , would become commercially viable . none of this would happen immediately . in the short run , americans would be required to make modest economic sacrifices in the form of higher fuel prices .
new york – internet companies are supposedly all about the cutting edge , but reality and buzz sometimes conflict . consider groupon : its target is the power of groups ; but its actual business is the old direct-mail and coupons . but groupon is extending that model into an even wider audience – not so much to coupon users , but instead to merchants offering coupons . indeed , groupon does for e-mail marketing what other internet firms do to the yellow pages or classified ads : encouraging shopkeepers to use high-tech customers to reach their customers . clearly , the model makes more sense for a wide range of customers : groupon now has more than 50 million subscribers and aims for 150 million by year-end terms .
the prevailing view is that a downward trend largely reflects a decline in equilibrium or a “ natural ” interest-rate shock driven by shifts in the saving and investment fundamentals . in other words , a higher propensity to save in emerging economies , together with investors ’ growing preference for safe assets , has boosted savings supply worldwide , even as weak growth prospects and heightened uncertainty in advanced economies depressed demand for investment . this perceived decline in “ natural ” interest rates is perceived as the key to an economic recovery , because it impedes monetary policy ’s capacity to provide adequate stimulus by pushing real rates lower to equilibrium levels , owing to the zero lower bound on nominal rates . how to stem the decline in equilibrium rates thus became the subject of lively debate . conspicuously absent in the debate , however , the role of financial factors is to explain the downward trend in real rates .
as enrico moretti of the university of california at berkeley emphasized in his book the new geography of jobs , the salience of this new divide is unmistakable : university graduates account for roughly half of the overall us population in the most affluent metropolitan areas , but are four times as many worse-off areas . economic shocks usually exacerbate this political divide . those who take the job and work of traditional production districts caught up with the turmoil of globalization are multiple losers : their job , their housing wealth , and the fortunes of their children and relatives are all highly correlated . in fascinating new research , mit ’s david autor and his co-authors have explored political consequences . they find us districts where the economy has been hit hard by chinese exports , by substituting for moderate representatives with more radical politicians – either from the left or the right .
the un commission of inquiry collected the information identifying some of those responsible for the crimes it investigated , but it did not make it public . the names of those responsible should be disclosed , either by commission or by another body created by the un human rights council . those to be named should be reported , and given the chance to refute findings . failure to respond or if their responses are unconvincing , their names and the crimes they attribute should make public . the un ’s council of human rights could act on its own .
the scars of colonialism are fresher in france than anywhere else in europe ; the country has europe ’s largest muslim minority ; with moderates seeming particularly weak and divided , it is cresting in opinion polls . such ingredients could be a recipe for disaster . already le pen seems to have returned to form . “ national unity is pathetic political maneuver , ” she complained after being invited to rally the day after an attack . but , if right leaders are at their helm , the january 7 attack could spur a renewed collective sense of purpose and political revival .
that means increasing capital and human capital intensity across the economy as a whole . on the tradable side , one should look for structural change , with a shift in output to higher-value-added components of global supply chains . here , the innovations and the conditions that underpin it – including competition and free entry and market exit – play an important role . if policymakers choose a model based on a large state-dominated sector protected from internal and external competition , innovation objectives are unlikely to be met , adversely affecting future growth . the non-tradable side , meanwhile , is expected to grow .
elections alone , of course , make it impossible to achieve democracy . consider these cases when elections empower an ethnic or religious group , which then rides roughshod over minorities – an outcome that has been seen all too frequently in the balkans , for example . then there are instances when the election of a leader is treated as if it somehow legitimizes the subsequent emergence of dictatorship . that has been the case in russia , which , since president vladimir putin ’s first electoral victory in 2000 , has become a potemkin democracy . another election this year , neither free nor fair , will provide putin another term in office .
but iranians are nothing like the nazis , and there is no country like the soviet union posing the type of threat that inspired us president richard nixon to head in 1972 . equally problematic has been the tendency to compare the two sets of negotiations to one another . beyond timing , they have little in common . what they do share is that their “ success ” was driven mainly by the sense that powerful external threats made the alternative – no deal at all – far worse . in greece ’s case , negotiations were propelled by the specter of embittered greece cozying up to russian president vladimir putin with his dangerous revisionist ambitions , or acting as a conduit for europe-strapped migrants to the us .
what , if they do , benefit from enhancing the drug ? for athletes seeking to compete in clean ways , the threat that they may be beaten by a competitor who fails to grow faster , stronger , or more dedicated , but who takes drugs to get their side , is profoundly personal . when drugs are prohibited but some athletes use them in any playing field tilts in favor of cheater . if we prohibit drugs in the olympic games , it is because we owe it to athletes to deter , detect , and punish those who cheat . integrity seems like an old-fashioned idea , but at the heart of whom we are , and how we are living .
meanwhile , external forces have compounded the problem . south korea ’s admission of the oecd has required its government to dismantle capital controls , exposing the economy to inflows of short-term “ hot money . ” all the more generally , countries have felt pressure from the imf and the american treasury to remove capital-flow constraints that exacerbated risk and made pegged exchange rates more problematic . this sketch of the crisis highlights how much the subsequent 20 years have changed . for starters , the crisis countries have ratcheted down their investment rates and growth expectations to sustainable levels .
beyond this , there is no way to replace the dollar anywhere . it is n’t about to replace the euro or the yen , given that both europe and japan have serious economic problems of their own . the renminbi is approaching , but not until 2020 , by which time shanghai will become a first-class international financial center . and , even then , the renminbi will likely share the international stage with the dollar rather than a replacement . one thing that could precipitate the demise of the us dollar would be reckless economic mismanagement .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
i and a number of other affluent americans contribute millions to grass-roots organizations engaged in the 2004 presidential election . the us is profoundly concerned with the direction in which the bush administration is taking the united states and the world . if americans reject the president ’s policies at the polls , america may write off the bush doctrine as a temporary aberration , resume its rightful place in the world . if american voters endorse those policies , the american will need to live with the world ’s hostility , endure the vicious cycle of escalating violence . in that effort , i committed $ 10 million to “ america coming together , ” a grass-roots get-the-vote operation , and $ 2.5 million for 'moveon-.org voter fund , a popular online advocacy group airing advertisements to stress the administration ’s misdeeds .
while russia has not overplayed the us , with 20 % cited the country as their “ best friend ” outside the middle east and north africa . but russia is likely to disappoint its supporters in the middle east , and not least as the regional peace broker . after america ’s peace negotiations with the afghan taliban failed – and nearly 30 years after the end of the decade-long soviet occupation of the country – the kremlin stepped in to mediate discussions between the taliban and the representatives of other afghan groups . yet the middle east – a region of manifold conflicts stemming from religious , ethnic , political , historical , and strategic factors – has time and again exhausted the commitment of foreign actors . there is little reason to think that a russia that has never been particularly inclined toward long-term peace-building will mediate , much less underwrite , durable peace agreements .
but experience shows that decisions to retire or work fewer hours affect the compensation that such a group ’s members receive . and this sum partly reflects the fact that employed people who pick up social-security and medicare are subject to a payroll tax that finances them . the payroll tax paid to employees is 6.65 % ( employers pay the same rate ) and , in addition to personal income-tax rates . furthermore , because of the complex rules that govern the level of welfare benefits , older workers who pay that payroll tax are likely to receive no extra benefits . in many older workers , the choice is not whether they are working .
indeed , eu enlargement will generate enormous momentum to the whole of europe , particularly the baltic countries of which so many new eu members will come . up to the point , the eu has centered on kaliningrad 's interest over how to curb visa rights that oblast citizens in kaliningrad have now used to traverse poland and the baltic states , so as to visit the rest of russia . but eu expansion will increase its trade and economic growth , and these could offer real incentives to make kaliningrad an increasingly attractive neighbor and trading partner , not just the feared source of illegal russian immigrants to the eu by adopting a supposedly lax visa regime . if this fails , however , the contrasts between kaliningrad and the rest of the region will be shamefully striking . the eu must forge close cooperation with russia 's leaders , and kaliningrad oblast in designing a viable future for a enclave .
without nuclear fusion , future generations ’ energy possibilities will be severely curtailed – creating a severe problem for advanced and developing alike . lev artsimovich , the inventor of tokamak , argued that “ fusion would be ready as society is what it needs . ” one hopes that it is right . but , rather than depending on fusion researchers to defy odds , the world should step up investment with technology . our future may be dependent upon it to do just this .
would the imf have insisted not that its program be a much tougher one , with less financing , for any country outside of the eurozone ? a clear explanation for the imf ’s extraordinary gamble is its belief that an managing director who has made the decision to support greece so heavily hailed the eurozone , and , at that time , barely disguised his ambitions to run for the french presidency – that is , before his arrest in new york on charges of rape . europeans , too , dominate the fund ’s leadership . it is the discomforting conflict of interest that borrowers dominate an international institution in which it lends them vast sums . this mismanagement should disqualify any eurozone policymaker from the imf ’s managing director , and yet christine lagarde , the french finance minister , was named to succeed her compatriot dominique strauss-kahn after his resignation .
so the three issues europe faces in the second half of this year are closely interconnected . with the eu set to need the strongest leadership team to find a way of steer through treacherous waters and implement key financial reforms , the eu will need the leadership team to steer . just now , the signs are far from promising . there are few new faces or ideas on the horizon . we must hope , perhaps , to be surprised .
a more nuanced approach would focus on eliminating the underlying , interconnected barriers women face in obtaining nominated office and conducting successful campaign initiatives . such obstacles involve the election system itself ( women fare better under proportional representation than they do in first-past-the-post systems based on single-member districts ) ; poor access to financing ; weaker professional networks ; and outside responsibilities that make punishing and unpredictable work conditions tougher . overcoming such structural barriers requires a comprehensive strategy , by supporting the female candidates . one of the most powerful tools is money , which is not the least powerful one . in many countries , campaigning cost becomes prohibitively high for most aspirants , regardless of gender .
this reflects both the weakness of public-investment , and the information gap : investing in job-training in the burgeoning evolving industrial structure is like firing on the moving target . given imperfect information about the future needs , labor markets are out of equilibrium . powerful technological and global markets are not confined to any single country . the same issues arise everywhere , with outcomes reflecting variability in market flexibility and social-policy choices . these adverse trends dates back to some 1980 .
wikipedia ’s boosters trumpet it , as heralding the advent of “ web 2.0 . ” whereas “ web 1.0 ” facilitated the storage and transmission of vast amounts of information in cyberspace , “ web 2.0 ” supposedly renders the entire process interactive , removing the final frontier separating the “ feedback ” and receiver of information . but we have been here before – in fact – the bulk of human history . a sharp divide between producers and consumers of knowledge began only around 300 years ago when book printers secured royal protections for their trade in the face of piracy in a rapidly expanding literary market . the legacy of their success , copyright law , continues to impede attempts to render cyberspace a free marketplace of ideas .
that is somewhat ironic : removing the uk from the ecj ’s jurisdiction now is one of its principal aims . so delegation after delegation to ministers , mayors , and assorted financial center lobbyists fill london ’s top hotels and provides a welcome boost to high-end restaurant commerce . luxembourg , frankfurt , dublin , and others have been making glossy presentations about their towns ’ competitive advantage over london : lower property costs , lower corporate-tax rates ( that sounds plausible when argued with irish accent ) , michelin-starred restaurant restaurants , and porsche dealdealerships – all essential services that make up a vibrant financial center . some of those presentations have raised a grin or two . french president françois hollande was elected on the argument that the world of high finance is its enemy .
that reasoning led iran ’s leaders to dial up its disruptive activities in multiple theaters , not least by seizing a british tanker in the strait of hormuz last month ( it has also noted that the uk is europe ’s weak relationship with the us ) . iran ’s increasing aggressiveness is already raising haackles in israel , which is reportedly targeting iranian assets in iraq ( having already started strikes against iranian forces in syria ) . the danger now is that iran or its proxies in the middle east will misread the situation and cross the red line . iran has , understandably , frustrated with european slow progress toward launching the piñx , the bartering mechanism designed to allow for some european trade with iran , despite us sanctions . but those in iran who argue that they have gotten nothing from europe are simply wrong .
so managers are quick to embrace “ aggressive ” or “ creative ” accounting methods flatters earnings projections , conceals risks , and portrays a smooth record of earnings growth . finally , managers , rather than distant shareholders , control access to well-paid appointments , and lucrative consulting jobs . so internal and outside auditors often co-opted . to be sure , america ’s corporate and securities scandals have exposed regulatory gaps-insufficient enforcement of disclosure requirements , or excessive reliance on peer review of auditors and so-called “ chinese walls ” to hold the brokerage and investment-banking activities separate . american accounting standards , in addition , have been unable to cope with bookholding ’s uncharted frontiers of off-balance sheet transactions , structured finance methods , and byzantine treaty valuations .
countries in asia – indeed , throughout the developing world – are simply not exporting their abundant , economically significant genetic resources . the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) , signed in 1992 , pledged an international regime of access and benefits sharing ( arabs ) of genetic resources . this would allow researchers and companies to access their genetic treasure to the developing world in return for the share of profits that were then developed . but brokering an abs regime has proven elusive , and in the absence of an international deal , there has been diminishing access , and thus a declining benefit-sharing regime , over the past five or so years . this implies potentially massive economic , environmental , and social loss to the developed and developing world alike .
the benefits of economic growth will be less unequally distributed than they have in the past few years , though they will still accrue disproportionately to people already in better shape . the second group , led by china , will stabilize at lower growth rates than recent historical averages , while continuing to grow structurally . they will gradually reorient their growth models to make them a more sustainable – an effort that occasional bouts of global financial-market instability will shake , but not derail . and they will work to deepen their domestic markets , improve regulatory frameworks , empower the private sector , and expand the scope of market-based economic management . the third group , led by europe , will struggle as ongoing economic stagnation fuels social and political disenchantment in some countries and complicates regional policy choices .
once again , european companies have borne the costs of such measures . and , because european firms were so heavily integrated with america ’s economy , europe has struggled to maintain autonomous foreign policy towards iran . unless europe can be rendered into an international currency to rival the us dollar , europe ’s economy will remain highly vulnerable to the us extraterritoriality . the third area of soft-power weaponization has been technology , particularly respect for 5g equipment . unlike 3g broadband systems , 5g deployment has a far-reaching security and geopolitical implications , because it promises not only to improve mobile telephony , but also to accelerate the development of the internet of things and the digitalization of entire economies .
so what accounts for partisan performance differentials ? blinder and watson suggest that five factors – oil shocks , productivity growth , defense spending , foreign economic growth , and consumer confidence – may together account for 56 % of america ’s growth gap . but the extent to which these factors have been influenced by america ’s president ’s policies is impossible to know . we know even less about the factors in charge for a other 44 % performance gap . in assessing clinton ’s statements on the topic , fact-checkers make much of the finding by blinder and watson that , in sharp contrast to widespread assumptions , neither fiscal nor monetary policies are more “ pro-growth ” nor expansionary under republican presidents ; as a result , they can not explain an performance differential .
but , with myanmar included , this could become far too difficult politically , and the asean subgrouping is perhaps more realistic . another possibility is for the american press to press toward the trans-pacific partnership . this was suggested late in the bush administration to forge ties with several asean members – singapore , vietnam , and brunei , as well as others across the pacific . this could be built up to include other open southeast asian economies – malaysia and thailand – with an eventual goal being the apec-wide agreement , which would be an impressive achievement if realized by the end of 2011 , when it will be obama ’s turn to play host for every leader . in this time of depression and jobless , the american public may question freer trade .
the trouble is that few outsiders seem to be listening , much less preparing to confront the eventual limits of central-bank effectiveness . as a result , they risk aggravating potential challenges . this has been particularly true of those policymaking entities , which possess far better tools to address the advanced economies ’ growth and employment problems . rather than take advantage of the opportunities provided by central banks ’ unconventional monetary policies to respond effectively , too many slipped into a fundamentally dormant mode of inaction and denial . in the united states , for the fifth year in a row , congress has yet to pass a full-fledged budget , much less dealt with the economy ’s growth and job headwinds .
meanwhile , only 15 % of private-sector employees – people who presumably rely on government-funded education and infrastructure – receive the type of fixed-benefit retirement plan that will cushion ryan ’s retirement , following an entitlement center . to restore fairness , the government should follow the private-sector lead in leading , linking policymakers ’ retirement to performing them . like high-level managers at publicly traded private-sector companies , policymakers who have made bad decisions should face clawbacks , in the form of declining pensions . a pension is a long-term commitment by a national state – and ultimately the taxpayer – to an individual politician . if politicians receive pensions starting at age 50 as ryan , retirement benefits could realistically be paid from $ 40-plus years ago .
abbas ’s presidential term has expired , putting the elections on a permanent footing . fayyad , such as his hamas counterparts in gaza , rules by decree , keeps parliament inactive , and silences the opposition . with no institutionalized democratic legitimacy , the pa is committed to relying on its security forces , and on those of the occupier , israel , to enforce its will . throughout history , of course , national liberation movements have had to marginalize their own radicals and fanatics , in order to reach the promised land . this was true of zionism , of an italian risorgimto , and most recently of catholics in northern ireland .
the us commander of guantánamo task force , rear admiral harry b. harris , jr. , recently defended harsh treatment of their prisoners and claimed that , “ all are terrorists ; they ’re all enemy combatants . ” but the cia made mistakes before . murat kurnaz , for example , a german-born turkish man , was held in guantánamo for four years before his release last august . khaled el-masri , the german citizen of lebanese descent , appears to be but another of these errors . seized by the cia in macedonia , he received a five-year arrest of afghanistan , before being released without charge .
the treaty calls for the new eu foreign minister -- though it is formally denied that title , this , it is what everyone will call him -- with strong administrative infrastructure at the european commission and council . a rotating presidency will then be replaced by the council 's elected president . a new balance between the eu and the member states will be struck , with a stronger role given to the european parliament and to the national parliaments . the eu will endowed citizens with legally binding fundamental rights , with a majority of decisions becoming the common norm . a high price was forced to be paid for such a treaty .
so we must hope that government can answer this question . the most interesting parts of the “ future of finance ” concern how the money means for payment changes . cash is declining in many countries , even though the rate differs markedly from the place to the eu . cash usage has dropped by more than 80 % in sweden in the past decade , and is now dropping by about 10 % per year in the us , while barely changing in germany . van steenis warns that the “ swedish experience shows that without a coordinated plan , the pace of change risks excluding some groups in society . ”
a second reason to avoid imf intervention in europe is that lending to a potentially insolvent country has serious implications for the fund . for starters , taking the imf ’s preferential creditor status at face value would entail substituting its “ non-defaultable ” debt for the “ defaultable ” debt with private bondholders , because funds are used primarily to service outstanding bonds . as a result , a group of lucky bondholders would be bailed out at the expense of those who have become junior to imf debt , and remained highly exposed to likely restructuring . because a “ haircut ” can be imposed on only whatever is left to default on default on private debt , the bigger the imf share , the deeper the haircut needed to rebuild sustainability . for the same reason , imf loans can become a burdensome legacy .
beijing – consider this : despite china ’s swelling foreign-exchange reserves , the result of persistent current-account surpluses – the market and interbank short-term interest rates are soaring . how has this happened ? the issue , at the root , is structural . china ’s currency reserves are relatively plentiful . as the world ’s largest currency issuer , china ’s broad provision of money ( m2 ) is 1.5 times larger than that of the united states , with a debt/gdp ratio of roughly 200 % compared to about 80 % in the us .
while institutions like weill cornell in qatar and the gulf university of science and technology in kuwait have launched innovative research and training programs that focus on these types of health challenges , much more is needed . another problem is that the region ’s education and training programs do not stimulate enough systemic thinking . worldwide , public-health policy is shifting toward more multidisciplinary integration of engineering , medicines , social , and management science , and the humanities . by yet not embracing an integrated approach , gcc institutions risk falling behind the global norm . technology and new public-health approaches are important ; but they will be ineffective if they are not tailored to meet the real needs of local people .
more telling , of course , will be party primary in november . given hollande ’s rock-bottom approval ratings , it is commonly believed that winning the republican party will be france ’s next president . and , while juppé remains far ahead in opinion polls so far , the french could reject his happy version of french identity in favor of sarkozy ’s far darker one . i still believe juppé is most likely to emerge as france ’s next president . on age and profile , he is resembles the more french version of hillary clinton , more practiced when it comes to conquest of power .
under the banner of “ simplification , ” the “ ways ” gravitating towards the outsourcing of the majority of implementation to the agencies that need to be endowed , one hopes , with greater flexibility to fulfill its particular missions . this demands smooth work and much more efficient interinterinteragency interinterfaces between agency and the european commission , which maintain overall control of them , just as a thorough revision of the entire eu financial regulation , and its oft-criticized bureaucratic red tape . some tough political choices lie ahead : which parts of the framework program should be continued and that end ? so how can a innovations that are never just technological , but as social , as are well achieved and fully used ? and , perhaps most fundamentally , what are optimal trade-offs with which the eu ’s member states and european institutions should collaborate more effectively for a common european future ?
despair and alienation have taken hold on the younger generation of arabs representing more than 50 % of region population . political repression and silence in arab public opinion should worry about both america and its arab allies , rather than reassure them , because it means that the public has no way of leveraging its interests , demands , and frustration peacefully . an american-launched invasion of iraq , with its large numbers of civilian casualties , would deepen the sense of victimization and defeat felt by arab youths and force them to join al qaeda-style holy war cells . far from undermining militancy and combatting terror , a war will likely play into al qaeda ’s hands , giving it a new lease on life . indeed , militant islamists , hoping to recover from the devastating blows they absorbed since the war on terror began , are already positioning themselves to capitalize on a coming war to iraq .
but nord stream 2 would make those woes all the inevitable . ukraine poorer would be an even easier victim of russian aggression than it is today . and the kremlin ’s hold on belarus would be even tighter should yamal close . moreover , germans and other europeans would not have spared the consequences . by committing to buy more russian gas than is necessary , and for longer , the eu would have been helping to finance russia ’s military buildup that constitutes a direct threat to european peace .
san francisco – it seems puzzling at first : prescription drug prices in the united states continue to rise at an alarming rate , despite threat ( or promise ) from cheaper generic substitutes . but nowhere is this mystery . pharmaceutical corporations pay health-care players all over the world to favor their more expensive drugs over lower-priced alternatives . as a result , those who should be acting as watchdog for patients are happily going along . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
but , while there are many reasons to blame foreign powers for the region ’s parlous state of affairs , blaming others – or even one another – will resolve anything . after all , the arab world has a lot of homegrown problems , including inefficient , ineffective governance , unholy alliances and undeveloped national capacities . catastrophe awaits any region helpless to shape its own futures , in which an overwhelming majority of citizens feel disenfranchised . even though the arab world has traditionally been conservative , nearly 70 % of its citizens are below their age of 35 , and young people suffer the highest rates of unemployment in most countries . this constitutes not just a tremendous resource waste , but also a severe long-term sociopolitical problem .
to ensure that female vaccinators remain engaged in this struggle , addressing the obstacles – whether physical security , social constraints , or low pay – is critical . let us not forget that those women take risks to protect everyone from a diseases that have taken an enormous toll on global health . as polio survivor , i simply can not fathom that , with total eradication in our sights , we might enable polio to go back . since unicef began emphasizing hiring women for his 2014 polio program , the number of female vaccinators has been dramatically increasing . nearly 62 % of vaccinators in nigeria are women , and nearly 62 % of vaccinators are women in the world , and nearly 62 % of them are female .
a large minority of citizens in the developed , inhabits filter bubbles created by such platforms – digital false realities in which existing beliefs have become increasingly rigid and extreme . in the us , roughly one-third of adults have become impervious to new ideas , including demonstrable facts . a concept that former google ’s design tristan harris calls “ brain hacking is easy to manipulate . ” western democracies are unprepared to cope with this threat , and they are not prepared to cope with this threat . america has no effective regulatory framework for internet platforms and lacks political will to create one .
when american troops were captured in iraq , president bush said that he expects that he expects them to be humanely treated . “ if not , ” the president warned , “ the people who mistreat the prisoners would be treated as war criminals . ” president bush ’s remarks driven home the significance of strict adherence to the geneva conventions , and to the question of how war crimes trials might be convened in postwar iraq and who conduct them . america ’s plan for war crimes trials covers violations perpetrated before the current conflict began . american officials recently released a list of iraqis facing trial for past crimes .
second , today ’s algorithms become very good at pattern recognition when it is provided with large data sets – search objects in youtube videos or detecting credit-card fraud – but they are far less effective with unusual circumstances , which do not fit the usual pattern , or simply when the data are scarce or some “ noisy ” data . to manage such cases , one needs a skillful person , with her or her experiences , intuition , or social awareness . third , recent systems can not account for what they have done or why they are recommending a particular course of action . in these “ black boxes , ” you can not simply read code to analyze what is going on or check if there is a hidden bias . when interpretability is important – for example , in many medical applications , one need a trained human in the decision-making loop .
at the same time , the country advanced the road of fiscal federalism : channeling all of the vat into the federal budget ; and tax on income to regions makes for a sensible system to distribute budget resources among the tiers of authority . the second important area of progress has been reform in russia ’s federation of governors : the establishment of federal districts and the reform of the federation council . these changes are controversial , but the federation whose laws are ignored by some of its constituent members can not function normally ; a federation in which the observance of the laws depends , on the whim of local bureaucracies , simply can not exist . president putin ’s moves to reinforce an integrated system of power are thus logical and correct . as a result , russia today represents a realistic , even if imperfect , federation .
for israel , that is more than a bit of concern . some of netanyahu ’s top cabinet ministers , including avigdor liberman , hawkish secretary of defense , and yuval steinitz , a us security cabinet member , have swiftly expressed anxiety over a arms agreement . within israel ’s right-wing party , many worry that trump is merely trying to appease israel with rhetoric , and view saudi arabia as mainstay america ’s interests in the region . one might well be that trump hopes that saudi arabia ’s support can help drive forward the negotiations between israelis and palestinians . but , given trump ’s inability to adopt a genuine stand on any core area of disagreement – including borders , refugees , and the status of jerusalem – the idea that he is playing some well-thought-long play in the israel-palestine conflict seems farfetched .
and weaknesses in the london housing market are no longer appearing to be spreading elsewhere . in reality , in the northwest , residential real-estate prices are showing signs of accelerating upward pressure . if this trend does endure , the uk economy would have far-reaching implications . strengthening housing markets in the north might do wonders to reverse the troubling regional inequalities that have emerged in recent decades . it is one thing we can absolutely be certain to do , with government continuing to pursue policies to entrench northern powerhouse , and perhaps with the “ midlands engine ” – a “ midland , ” too .
new delhi – for some time now , multinational companies ( mncs ) have been gambling with rules of the global economy to minimize their tax liability – or even eliminate it altogether . and , for some time now , an independent commission for reform of international corporate taxation ( icrict ) has argued for unitary taxation by mncs . fortunately , there have been some encouraging recent signs that the idea of unitary us taxation is gaining traction . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
this includes : the funds to stop the transmission of aids from mother to infants ; the funds to help fight infections like tuberculosis that accompany aids ; and , with the good program design , even funding for anti-retroviral therapies . with specially designed , low-cost combinations of drugs being used in place , and with drugs provided to the world 's poorest countries at its lowest possible cost of production , they may be extended to arv therapies to even very poor countries at the tolerable price level . a third step must be an expanded program on research and development to new and more effective approaches to disease control . the most promising answer to the longer-term , long-term , is a vaccine to protect against the disease . recent breakthroughs in basic science offer hope that one vaccine could evolve within a decade if billions of dollars of research and development finance are mobilized by both the public and private sectors .
indeed , the un estimates that up to seven in ten women worldwide experience physical or sexual violence – or both – during their lifetime . but violence against women can be hard to detect . even those who recognize it may choose to ignore it , believing that it is not one of their business or too widespread to make a difference or because they are too busy to take part . clearly , there is a need for a global shift to gender-related attitudes and norms . to this end , national governments have a responsibility to develop gender-based policies and gender-sensitive practices – policies that effectively discourage gender-based discrimination , while preventing violence from punishing its perpetrators .
this month , new mayors took office without the electoral commission ( cse ) made 100 % of the vote , the open violation of nicaraguan electoral law . although management of the managua electoral fraud was probably the most widely documented , the same modus operandi occurred across the country affects more than 40 municipalities . despite complaints from the episcopal conference of the catholics ’ chambers , business and political parties , cse refused to allow a recount of ballots or scrutiny by impartial observers . and when citizens protested peacefully , the government resorted to violence in order to curb them . thus , the fsln government proclaimed itself the winner in 109 of 153 municipalities .
even if putin has found ways to retain strength without amending the constitution – the possibility that putin has been endlessly speculated about russia ’s dwindling band of democrats – the undemocratic nature of his strategy becomes glaringly evident . moving from one high office in the kremlin to another in the white house ( the russian parliament ’s seat ) is merely technicality . putin will no matter what office formally stands for himself . what makes that work is that , like any good kgb man , putin is a master of facades . it has been argued that presidential democracy only reinforces russian political culture ’s tendency to favor rulers with a “ strong hand , ” whereas it would permit a parliamentary system to produce more “ horizontal ” distribution of power .
morsi ’s timing was remarkable : the day after an international victory , he staged a frontal assault on egypt ’s nascent democracy in the name of the military in the middle east . the question now is whether the brothers would prevail , both in the streets and through egypt ’s new constitution ( a term they largely wrote ) . if they do , will the west withdraw its support for egyptian democracy in the name of “ stability ” ? it would be a wrong mistake . the question of what to do about iran ’s nuclear program will also go back with a vengeance in january , in the aftermath of america ’s second inauguration in the us and israel ’s general election , and will demand a response within a few months .
the implication was obvious : democracy on the own was insufficient . liberalism – protection of minorities and individual civil liberties – was bound to intensify . the word “ liberalism , ” however , does not mean the same thing for all people . in many circles , it came to be used to describe unfettered capitalism and full liberty of choice in personal lifestyles . and it was an alternative meanings that initially allowed politicians like orbán and turkish leader recep tayyip erdoğan to make the case for another form of majoritarian democracy .
despite talking of the eu ’s “ green economy ” and calling into a europe-wide investment program , macron ’s agenda is broadly neoliberal . essentially macron hopes to see his agenda , if implemented at the eu level , lift his not just the french economy , but all european boats . in fact , the likelihood is that such reform will sink all boats , giving populists a chance at their disposal . in that case , which variety of populist parties is seizing the opportunity ? the economist dani rodrik puts on the appeal of populism to focus .
the first shock was intensified by globalization , which brought a lot of new low-wage rivalry . although globalization is a gradual process , it has gained momentum when china decided to play the game . china is ten times japan ’s size , and japan was not easy to cope with either . german precision instruments and optical equipment , for example , lost their competitive edge when japan entered its game . the second shock has been eu integration , including northern and southern enlargement .
america ’s deteriorating fiscal position is leading to the strong dollar , just after reagan ’s irresponsible tax cut two decades ago , america ’s worsening fiscal position is at best . while countries may pride themselves on a strong currency , a strong dollar makes exports and the good for imports . in a dynamic economy , as jobs disappear in one sectors , new jobs are being created in another . government ’s role is to facilitate the movement of labor from one to the other . it is a primary responsibility of the government to maintain full employment .
to be sure , consensus and compromise , and pooling sovereignty are the only ways to resolve the vast many issues – climate change , nuclear proliferation – that bedevil our world . on the great issues of war , however , peace , and the balance of power , europe seems trapped between an insufficiently cohesive foreign policy and uncertainty among individual countries about how to define and ensure their national interests . by contrast , the world ’s rising powers – brazil , china , india , and russia – insist not just on primacy in their national interests ; rather , since the failed climate negotiations in copenhagen last december demonstrated , on sovereign freedom of action just as it does . to them , geopolitics is anathema ; it is at the core of all its external actions . defending the national interest still rallies to their publics ; exercising power remains at the heart of their diplomatic calculations .
pro-milosevic candidate , tomislav nikolic , has lost , but received 46 % of the vote . despite his campaign ’s promises , serbia ’s president boris tadic has so far defaulted to cooperate with the icty by helping to transform over mladic ( karadzic is probably not in serbia ) who would surely attest against milosevic . one understands his trepidation : the first post-milosevic prime minister , zoran djindjic , cooperated with the tribunal , paying for life for his life . such foot-dragging exposes the icty ’s fundamental weakness : unlike the nuremberg tribunal , the international community convened it during , not after , war . without full control of either the evidence or the accused , the icty lacks the legitimacy and authority of “ victors ’ justice . ”
for starters , the global financial meltdown and ensuing recessions laid bare the consequences for free-market fundamentalism , thus undercutting popular and ideological support for the neoliberal view that markets are best at shaping societal performance . moreover , china – the embodiment of the go-for-growth movement – signaled a policy shift toward the pursuit of better social and environmental outcomes alongside more moderate gdp gains . to be sure , this is largely a case of virtue implied by necessity ; as export-driven growth has slowed , the risk of social unrest over topics such as air pollution ( air pollution , food toxicity , and corruption ) have risen . but the new approach also underlies the recognition , in fact , that china ’s continued development depends upon a healthy balance between ecology and the economy . this shift is tied to a third , broader development : the world ’s growing understanding of where the planet is headed toward a environmentally , above all , climate change .
johannesburg – my country liberalized abortion more than two decades ago , but on january 23 , 2017 , us president donald trump essentially took away my right , even writing the word . as south africa health doctor , i have provided abortion services for more than a decade . as part of my job , i have often edit learning materials for an ngo working on hiv prevention in the us . for young south african women , these texts offer life-saving information on issues related to sexual and reproductive health – including birth control , sexual violence , and our home countries ’ progressive anti-abortion laws . but two days after america ’s presidential elections in november 2016 – and more so than two months before trump ’s inauguration – the ngo i was working to stop the distribution of reproductive-health guide , because it contained information on south african women constitutionally guaranteed the right to an abortion .
with an election campaign dead in the face of a daunting set of troubles , the american election campaign is heating up . how should it approach china ’s creation of not only facts on the ground , yet the earth itself , in the south china sea ? will russia ’s annexation of crimea continue forever ? indeed , how can america respond firmly to russian aggression without forsaking the long-planned project of bringing it closer to the west ? is there an alternative to sending ground troops back to the middle east ?
the world can not and will not wilt in faced with such extremism wherever it exists , whether in the sahel , nigeria , iraq , or syria . today , the international coalition fighting isis has grown to over 60 active members . since september , the us has retaken 700 square kilometers of territory . the us has deprived the group of use – and the resultant revenues – from 200 oil and gas facilities . the us has disrupted its command structure , undermined its propaganda , took out half its senior leadership , squeezed its funding , damaged its delivery grids , and dispersed its personnel .
when the berlin wall fell in 1989 , hammers and bulldozers brought this lesson down , not artillery . unfortunately , bush did not learn this lesson ; indeed , it did not . academic and scientific exchanges during the cold war played a significant role in enhancing american soft power . while some american skeptics feared that soviet scientists and kgb agents would steal american technology , they failed to notice that visitors vacuumed political ideas alongside scientific secrets . many of these researchers become leading proponents of human rights and liberalization within the ussr .
forty years ago , japan represented the “ asian west ” ; 40 , more than ever , the “ east asia is represented . ” the emergence of chinese-style modernity today is being mentally destabilizing japan . after all , if china is america ’s principal economic partner in asia and , if india is america ’s main diplomatic partner , what is left to japan ? its aging population watches resignedly as the new , younger asia , becoming as important for the us as europe during the cold war . george w bush ’s approach was to view india as an “ anti-china , ” and thus to balance the world ’s “ greatest democracy , ” versus the world ’s “ oldest civilization . ”
new york – the global recession now underway is the product not only of a financial panic , but of increasingly fundamental uncertainty about the world economy ’s future direction . consumers are pulling back from home and automobile purchases not only because they have suffered from a boom in their wealth with falling stock prices and housing values , but also because they are not sure where to reverse . should they risk purchasing new cars , when gasoline prices might soar again ? will they be able to put the food on the table after this year ’s frightening rise in food prices ? business investment decisions are even starker .
no trace of polish authority remained . total destruction of the polish state and its institutions made poland the ideal location for german extermination camps – in which six million polish citizens – three million jews and three million ethnic poles – were murdered . everywhere else in german-controlled europeans , nazi men had to deal with , sometimes at exceptionally complicated terms , with local governments , if only on tactical grounds . this is why poland is right to insist that camps not be called “ polish extermination camps ” ( as even us president barack obama mistakenly referred to it ) . they were german camps in occupied poland .
globally , the world ’s leading telecoms companies are found in china , where huawei is now head to head with sweden ’s ericsson . in 2008 , huawei registered more patents than any other company in the world , finishing second to japan ’s panasonic in 2009 . in the telecommunications sector , a half-dozen emerging-market multinational companies are now at the global top ten . brazil ’s embraer has revolutionized airplane production with a business model that others imitate . india ’s tata sells more cars to 75 % , just under his european competitors .
even america 's government , with debt duration roughly four years , would probably not have benefited much from inflationary surprise , unless it were huge . meanwhile , the bulk of its responsibilities are social security and health care , which can not inflated away . even for distressed households that borrowed long term , the effects of higher inflation are precarious . what would help is if their nominal disposable income had risen relative to their ( fixed ) debt-service service . yet , with high unemployment probably keeping nominal wage growth relatively subdued , typically troubled households could have made matters worse – with higher food and fuel prices cutting into disposable income .
though china ’s leadership will hope , it is a lack of drama in 2009 , president xi jinping will undoubtedly make sense of his own . if he did not miss a chance to advance the asia-pacific trade agreement ’s goal at least , while hosting last year ’s asia-pacific economic cooperation summit , he certainly will not pass on the chance to ensure that the g-20 agenda serves china ’s interests . of course , with turkey ’s term at the g20 helm barely having begun , xi presumably has yet to live up to specific priorities . yet some of the potential areas of concern are already apparent . elements of the current g20 agenda align well with china ’s domestic economic concerns with respect to infrastructure .
new york – following the french revolution of 1789 , deputies in the national assembly who supported the revolutionary gains sat on the left , while those who opposed them and hankered after the old ruling monarchy and churn congregated to the right . hence the political terms “ left ” and “ right . ” many commentators in french presidential election have pointed out that these categories no longer fit contemporary politics in france – or , indeed , elsewhere . emmanuel macron prides himself on being either right nor the left . marine le pen , whose national front seems to be associated with the far right , disagrees , “ it ’s the right thing to do . ” to her , macron , a former minister in the socialist government , is a leftist .
as a result , the coming time will most likely be a long time before we can assess the success of whatever legislation the american congress ultimately enacts . but the criteria for judgment are clear : new law need to curb practices that jeopardized the entire global economy , and reorient the financial system toward its proper tasks – managing risk , allocating capital , giving credit ( in particular , small – and medium-size enterprises ) , and operating an efficient payments system . the us should toast the likely successes : some form of the us financial-product safety commission ( itc ) will be established ; more derivative trading will move into exchanges and clearing house out of the murky “ bespoke ” market ; and some of the world ’s worst mortgage practices will be restricted . moreover , the outrageous fees charged for each debit transaction – some sort of tax going not to serve as a publicly directed purpose but to fill banks ’ coffers – will be curtailed . but the likely failures are equally noteworthy : too-big-to-fail banks ’ problem is worse off now than it was
to be sure , most french and german citizens identify as europe , as opposed to uk citizens who identify as british – or even as english , irish , scottish , and welsh . this makes germany and french critiques of the eu generally focus on bloc performance , while britain has often hit the european project on itself . but when it comes to security and defense , these affinities are reversed : france and britain are very likeminded , whereas germany , owing to its history , has long shied away from martial pursuits of any sort . to be sure , there are many differences between britain and france , with respect to how they engage with the united states and nato . the uk is naturally closer to nato than france is .
while it is commonly described as a fiscal stimulus , the new tax law is more accurate to say that it avoids a large immediate fiscal contraction . the agreement ’s long-term implications stand in sharp contrast to both obama ’s february 2010 budget proposal and the republican counterpart ’s bill . obama wanted to go on to continuing the 2010 tax cut permanently for all taxpayers , except those with annual income above $ 250,000 . republicans suggested continuing a 2010 tax cut permanently for all taxpayers . by agreeing to limit the current tax rate over just two years , the tax package lowers projected national debt at the end of the decade ( relative to what it would have had with obama ’s budget ) by some $ 2 trillion , or almost 10 % of gdp , in the 2020 budget .
spending on automobiles ground to stave off until government stimulus programs in many countries revived it . but schemes like public subsidies to scrapping old and fuel-inefficient cars simply led many people to reschedule their purchases . the automobile market was rescued in 2009 at the expense of sales , and then years . the crisis also revealed the extent of america ’s massive over-capacity to buy in retail markets , with estimates that at least one-fifth of american shopping malls would be forced to close . the reaction to the crisis will be a hastening of the movement toward on-line purchases , in which physical location no longer represents a preeminent component of shopping decision .
indeed , confucianism became the chinese state ’s official ideology two centuries before christ was born . confucianism was essentially a philosophical justification of government by benevolent bureaucracy under a virtuous ruler . virtue ensured harmony between man and nature , as well as obedience within stratified society . as one confucian classical put it : possessing virtue will give the ruler the people . possessing the people will give it the territory .
a damascene conversion is not only possible , but also vitally important for regional peace . the most realistic scenario now is a three-front war pitting israel against syria , hamas , and hezbollah . but a syrian-israeli peace would drive a wedge between syria and iran , thereby cutting off hezbollah ’s arms-control lines while enabling lebanon ’s vital task to succeed is to succeed . the one way to free syria from the fatal israeli embrace is by drawing it into a regional peace regime . alas , precisely due to their isolation and the ba’athist regime ’s “ al ” of ennahda , syrians are unlikely to meet the american state for peace talks : abandoning its current rogue alliances and making them marriage with terror .
for much of thailand ’s long economic boom of the last two decades , wealth resided mostly in bangkok ’s metropolitan region , a boon to its burgeoning urban middle class , but deeply resented by the rural majority . while rural populations were more than enough to eat , their economic opportunities and upward mobility were constrained by shoddy education systems and a docile state-run media that fed them soap operas and official messages . for no one to become someone , all roads led in bangkok and its prestigious prep schools and universities . thailand ’s farms became increasingly alienated from the urban elite . thaksin recognized this urban-rural divide and shrewdly exploited it , upending the elite consensus that long prevailed .
some of the roughly 150 pro-rebellion alawites who attended a conference traveled from their homes in syria ; others were expatriates , including activists and religious leaders , who had been forced to flee syria , for supporting the revolution . delegates – joined by several sunni opposition members – denounced assad and declared their unwavering support to a united kingdom , the democratic country that will offer full citizenship to all syrians , regardless of sect or ethnic backgrounds . “ depriving the sectarian card regime is crucial for its ouster , ” the conference ’s organizing committee noted . if alawites and sunnis living abroad can confront a united assad regime , which is why their counterparts inside syria can do so . by setting their example of coexistence , they can mitigate alawites ’ fears in syria that deserting assad will facilitate the rise of an anti-alawite sunni regime .
by announcing its plans for the aiib shortly after signing the ndb articles of agreement in 2014 , china announced the aiib ’s plans to join the ndb . in the case of the db , each of the brics owns an equal share , contributing $ 10 billion to initial subscribed capital . even though equitable shareholding was not china ’s preferred route , it did not force the matter . by contrast , by contrast , china is the aiib ’s largest shareholder at a wide margin , holding a 26.6 % stake , compared to india ’s 7.7 % and russia ’s 6 % . brazil and south africa , meanwhile , have made no capital contributions to date , despite being designated as “ founding members . ”
well , in both cases , the us should have said little : while aid is transparent , the symbolism of a rich country taking its money from a poor neighbor with a million of its suffering is hardly appealing . and it is particularly bizarre that even as us policy toward mexico has greatly increased prospects of an american chávez-type character becoming president , us officials are providing positive publicity to a us government that is a caricature of disastrous governance . trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , took a principled stand in american dealings with venezuela , imposing sanctions to rein in rogue behavior , a policy that drew broad bipartisan support . the trump administration needs to stay the course , especially because lower oil prices have weakened the venezuelan government ’s hand . instead of bashing latin america , the american government needs to demonstrate it can be a steady , principled friend who is no longer swayed by corrupt bribes of whatever form .
a similar solution is to be found for a european constitution . europe can not preach cultural pluralism , and practice constitutional imperialism . indeed , there is as great a political imperative that is constitutional . europe , after all , is committed to democracy worldwide . but in european ways of thinking , democracy must be spread pacifically rather than persuasion .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . as physicians with special training in forensic evaluations , the us moved to tijuana to meet juan , at the request of his lawyer .
trump appreciates what india already has done , but has been urging it to do even more , using its huge export earnings to the us to help rebuild afghanistan ’s economy . he also has suggested that the u.s. will work with india to create its indo-pacific security area . in any case , the potential for us-india security cooperation in the region seems to have been suggested while suggesting only at trump ’s address . the implications of trump ’s speech extend far beyond american policy toward the us in afghanistan . the address also sharpened the contours – already limned during his may visit to saudi arabia , and his july visit to poland – of what might be called a “ trump doctrine . ”
it organized the postwar international order : the un , the bretton woods institutions , the marshall plan , reconstruction of japan , and more . under this order , the rest of the world closed off a great deal of technology , education , and the infrastructural gap . as economists put it , global growth was “ convergent ” meaning that poorer countries were catching up . the share of the world economy represented by the us declined by roughly half ( to around 16 % currently ) . china now has a larger economy in absolute terms than the americas , although still only about a one-fourth size in per capita terms .
the focus on corporate social responsibility could help to ensure shared benefits for industrialization , whereas energy – and resource-efficiency requirements – can help to safeguard sustainability . and , as the sdgs recognize , resilient infrastructure and innovation incentives are also crucial . of course , achieving it will become expensive , not to mention the other sdgs , which will cost the estimated $ 3.3-4.5 trillion a year . given budget pressure in many donor countries , official development assistance has come down , and can not be relied upon to fill that needed . indeed , as a report by the international committee of experts on sustainable development financing points out , the spectrum of financing to the frameworks of future international development must still be broader than at any time .
for example , if high oil prices were the result of the tax cuts that were then re-allocating to oil users , they would have been unambiguously good , too . to be sure , much of the taxes entail heavy “ excess burdens ” : the cost is far larger than the value of the revenues raised because of potential taxpayers ’ myriad attempts at evasion and avoidance . yet a tax on oil does not entail excessive burdens . on the contrary , it implies excess benefits . shifts to more energy-efficient means of transportation ease congestion .
so-called “ functional ” foods – or “ techno-food ” – are those that manufacturers add omega-3 oils , synthetic sweeteners , indigestible starches , cholesterol reducers , soy , and milk ( whey ) proteins , phytochemicals , and other ingredients to enable a “ qualified ” medical claim , permitted by the food and drug administration ( fda ) . sales of lesser-evil and functional foods have done well in recent years , bringing an estimated $ 85 billion into american sales in 2004 . if you routinely buy such foods , you are ranked among lohas ( the lifestyles of health , and sustainability ) consumers – the food-sector ’s cherished demographic base . you buy low carbohydrates rate products , energy , and nutrition bars , vitamin a – and mineral-fortified foods and beverages , soy foods , and virtually anything with health claims . like many people , i believed that small , innovative companies dominated functional foods .
unity is to be a foundation of prosperity . the common market was defended at the start of the gains that would follow from increased trade in order to promote . the case for capital-account integration , followed by a single currency , was similar . all of this recalls some powerful arguments that arose in the nineteenth century about national integration and national unification . in particular , both countries whose problems drove much of the need for twentieth-century european integration – germany and italy – were culturally and politically highly diverse .
in sib , government contracts with outside provider to achieve measurable societal ends ( as with reducing recidivism among juvenile offenders ) , the private impact on investors finance the program ’s upfront costs , and the us government promises a return to them if the program ’s targets are achieved . more recently , the obama administration has proposed a $ 300 million fund to catalyze federal pay-for-performance treaties . several existing federal programs like community reinvestment act ( reinvestment ) and a small program of corporate investment companies are supporting a growth-impact investing fund . according to a recent study , impact investing in america would not exist without the us federal government ’s support and partnerships through grants , loans , and guarantees . metrics are an essential feature of pay-for-performance contracts .
their presence suggests that beyond the parade ’s martial rhetoric and symbolism , a broader and more complex story of china ’s wartime experience is emerging . in doing so , china keen to emphasize its role as one of the key allies in the struggle against fascism and imperialism in wwii and , increasingly , in terms of western ignorance about its wartime role as unacceptable . but ignorance in the west of china ’s wartime sacrifices – 14 million dead – as well as a major contribution in holding down more than a half-million japanese soldiers also reflect the partisan history of the war taught in china itself . under mao ’s rule , the only acceptable narrative was that the ccp led resistance against japan . foreign aid – including the major american role in wartime china – did not have a place in this story , too .
but are these newfound wealth effects really all that are created ? yes , the stock market is now at all-time high – but only in current dollars . in real terms , s & p 500 is still 20 % below its january 2000 peak . similarly , while the case-shiller index of american home prices is now up 10.2 % over the year ending in march 2013 , it is still 28 % below its 2006 peak . wealth creation matters , but not until it recoups the wealth destruction that preceded it .
the left is deeply divided on virtually every issue – europe , secularism , educational attainment , business and more – making it exceedingly difficult to identify what exactly constitutes “ leftist ” policies today . indeed , the socialists have begun to distinguish themselves not just by what they are , but by what they are not , touting a line , “ either macron nor mélenchon ” ( a reference to the far-left jean-luc mélenchon ) . yet that distinction might not be nearly as forceful as the socialists may be confident . after all , it was their center-left voters who got macron elected . and they knew what they voted for : every policy he implemented thus far was included in his campaign platform .
there is even less risk in saudi arabia alone , where king abdullah recently pledged more than $ 130 billion in stimulus spending . the few saudi demonstrations appear populated almost entirely by minority shia , which find little sympathy among the most sunnis , and by foreign-construction workers petitioning higher wages and better working conditions . syria ’s president bashar al-assad has more domestic support than a recent media account for unrest in the country ’s south has suggested . nor does iran ’s government appear to face real dangers . the brutal post-election crackdown of 2009 demonstrated the regime ’s commitment to maintaining order by whatever means necessary .
mexico city – four central american countries – guatemala , el salvador , honduras , and nicaragua – are struggling , still burdened by a legacy of the past century ’s wars . they are resilient yet incomplete democracies challenged by poverty , violence , and corruption – all but forgotten by the international community . yet there is reason to hope nowadays that these countries ’ prospects could improve . nicaragua , to be sure , does not seem fairly in the same category as central america ’s other three . like them , it has endured a brutal and protracted civil war ; unlike them , successive governments have nonetheless constructed institutions that are capable of supporting reasonably reasonable levels of territorial control and domestic security .
indeed , ten governments of the region already have debt-to-gdp ratios above 75 percentage points . as growth has slowed , public expenditures have waned , fueling economic insecurity . even when fiscal adjustment barely began , the old rent-seeking patterns have become unaffordable , and the population has turned against regimes that seem unable or unwilling to produce compelling reformist efforts . moreover , new popular movements in algeria , sudan , lebanon , and iraq absorbed important lessons from the 2011 uprisings . no longer content with just displacing aging autocrats , protesters , too , are targeting key components of both the deep nation state and security forces .
nonetheless , us president donald trump ’s administration is casting this carefully calibrated system into disarray . far from displaying a capacity to persuade , as the title of his book the art of the deal , trump is attempting to use raw power alone to force his “ america first ” agenda on the rest of the world . ample examples of trump ’s predilection for power are being found . it is reflected in his pressure on european countries not just to spend more on defense to fulfill their nato obligations – valid demand – but also that it must continue to channel us spending toward us-made weapons systems . it is equally apparent in his bellicose threats vis-à-vis america ’s purported enemies .
a comprehensive assessment by a country ’s macro investment risk requires looking systematically at the stock and flows of national account to capture all dangers , including risk in its financial system and the real economy , as well as broader risk issues . as we have seen in recent crises , private risk taking and debt becomes socialized when crises occur . so , even when public deficits and debt remain low before a crisis , they can rise sharply after one erupts . governments that looked fiscally sound suddenly appear insolvent . using 200 quantitative variables and factors to score 174 countries on a quarterly basis , we identified a number of countries where investors miss the risks – and opportunities .
abedi ’s barbaric acted , by contrast , killed at least 22 people , many of them children . in recent years , i was heavily involved in the policy aspects that grand city ’s economic revival . i chaired an economic advisory group to the greater manchester council , and then served as the chair of the growth commission of towns , which advocated for the “ northern powerhouse , ” a program to link the british cities north with the cohesive economic unit . i subsequently joined , briefly , with david cameron ’s government , to help implement the early stages of the northern powerhouse . i was never attending a concert in manchester arena , but it appears to have been a major venue for the city .
nile delta – around 60 miles north of cairo ’s tahrir square – the epicenter of the 2011 egyptian uprising – there is a secondary-school student call “ prison . ” a deformed box of concrete packed with dilapidated classrooms , a school is pockmarked with age and neglect . one teacher in sleepy nile delta village , idly quips that it doubles as a morgue . “ never seeing a revolution here ” he said several months ago withholding the name of his fear that his job is losing it . “ plenty of hope we now have died ... . ”
yet ten-year fiscal plans , endorsed by the 2017-2026 board – which inevitably takes the form of the basis of debt-restructuring discussions – seem to ignore this circularity . the plan itself recognizes that its adoption implies another “ lost decade ” of economic activity and weakening israeli debt sustainability , thus perpetuating a crisis that all parties want to end . sadly , the board ’s already-deep projected collapse in real gnp is highly optimistic , because , as it relies on a number of implausible and/or controversial assumptions , it relies on a number of assumptions . the five gaps on the council ’s fiscal plan stand out . first , projected fiscal multipliers – the sum by which gnp will fall as each dollar of the fiscal contraction – used for gnp forecasts that a contraction of one dollar in the primary fiscal deficit , will involve a $ 1.34 contraction of gnp .
such control damages the evolution of open societies . removing this constraint might put the bank ’s triple its rating at risk , while making the latter more effective . i propose that the world ’s open societies form an alliance with dual purposes : promoting both the development of open societies in individual countries ; and advancing a globally open society . the first involves development assistance ; the second , strengthening international institutions such as the international central bank and the world development agency . such alliances requires cooperation not only from governments , but also of civil society as a part of the world .
accra – planned parenthood , a vital source of sexual and reproductive health services in the united states , just has been forced to withdraw from its federal title x family-planning program to encourage low-income women . the decision – responding to the new rule by us president donald trump ’s administration forbidding the title x clinics from referring to abortion patients – will cost planned parenthood some $ 60 million annually . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
yet post-conflict employment policies almost invariably neglect so-called " horizontal inequalities . " employment policies , for example , have done little to reduce strong regional imbalances and discrimination within regions that persisted in bosnia and herzegovina in the aftermath of the balkan war there in the 1990s . in light of these flaws , it is not surprising that job policies ' net effects are often very small relative to the magnitude of the problem . jobs creation in both kosovo and bosnia and herzegovina was thought central to post-conflict peacekeeping efforts . yet , in kosovo , unemployment stood at least 45 % six years after its war ended .
we will strengthen assistance to the developing world and guide the world toward further prosperity . prosperity is the extremely foundation of peace , and it is not possible for japan to take the lead on a much stronger foundation . japan will make even greater efforts to fight poverty , which also serves as the hotbed of violence and provide opportunities for the medical services , education and self-reliance of any world ’s people . we will engrave at our hearts the past , when japan ended up becoming the challenger to the international order . upon this reflection , japan will firmly uphold fundamental values , such as freedom , democracy , and human rights as unyielding values and , by working alongside countries sharing such values , hoist a flag of “ proactive contributions to peace , ” and contribute more to the world ’s peace and prosperity than ever before .
saudi arabia is at the forefront of those welcoming democratic change and participation . although they constitute just 20 % of the total saudi population , they constitute the majority of -75 % – of the population in the oil-rich region . saudi arabia ’s shia have suffered discrimination across professions : at the military ’s high government offices , the diplomatic corps and most significantly in the oil-rich oil-producing sector in the late 1980 ’s . this systematic neutering of shia in saudi arabia is legitimated by the wahhabi religious establishment , and supported by the numerous fatwas denouncing them as being heretics . in bahrain , the shia , who comprise 75 % of the population , have been keen on the reforms initiated by saudi arabia ’s king hamad al-khalifah .
by pooling resources , the fund created economies of scale for life-saving products , such as anti-malarial bed nets and anti-retroviral drugs . then , by working with almost 100 countries , the fund had built massive supply chains . in the process , aids deaths fell by more than 50 % from their peak and malaria deaths have fallen by about 50 % since the turn of the millennium . now the fund has a $ 14 billion shortfall in new financing to continue this work . replenishment is vitally important news , first and foremost due to the sheer sheer number of lives it will help to save .
the higher education seems to be the lower voter participation : among those who never voted , the percent of those with a college education is twice the number of people without a higher education . alienated for so long , the country ’s brightest have washed their grip on politics . this is a form of political depression . depression can be cured only by providing the patient a positive vision of the future . the right-centrist parties – the union of the right forces and yabloko – do have such a vision , and people know it .
but broad international support will not be forthcoming as long as military operations are perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism . this last point has been at the heart of the problems in iraq . enlarging us and british troops with other “ western ” powers would not , especially at this end of the world , alter the fundamental perception that intervention , both within and outside the arab world , would change . only explicit , up-front approval of the reformed un security council can provide legitimacy and international support , which military action – except for clear self-defense – requires . that is true for actions considered by individual nations , temporary alliance , or more lasting alliances like nato .
second , we measured the effects of natural selection by noting that , shorter - and first-- women gave birth when younger patients had more children . but genes are just one of many of the factors that influence height , and age at first birth . personal decisions , nutrition , incomes level , education , and religious affiliation all entered this mix . when we estimated how much variation among individuals might be attributed to biology , the answer was less than 5 % . that left 95 % of variation , which explains the effects of culture and individual decisions .
sofia – at the time when europe ’s ongoing debt crisis is fracturing public belief within the continent ’s political or economic institutions , one would have expected european leaders to strengthen , as many unifying symbols , as they can . instead , they have enabled one of the jewels of post-world war ii european integration – the european court of human rights ( echr ) – to come under threat just as well . unlike the brussels-based europe , long beleaguered by its democratic deficit , strasbourg-based echr is , if anything , much too well loved . indeed , in 2011 , more than 60,000 people sought their help – far more than can expected to be reasoned . ( the united nations supreme court , by contrast , receives roughly 10,000 petitions annually . )
in a world of competing demands , corrupt governments may seem to serve vital ends . one deploys soldiers to fight terrorism ; another provides critical energy supplies or access to raw materials . leaders inevitably need to contend with difficult tradeoffs . to determine the best approach in each particular case , governments will have to analyze the problem more effectively , which means improving intelligence collection and data collection . as security expert sarah chayes argues against corruption , the volume of essays that the british government will publicly accompany the summit , corruption today is being structured practice .
voluntarily or not , some may seek recourse to inflation or administrative action aimed at trapping domestic savings into financing the state and keeping bond rates low ( what economists call financial repression ) – or , in the end , outright debt restructuring . all three unorthodox remedies have been used in past sovereign-debt crises . they can then be considered alternative forms of taxation , however implicit rather than explicit . ultimately , they are different methods of forcing current and future generations to shoulder the burdens of accumulating debts . is adjustment preferable for fulminently ?
but one must be cautious about visions . leaders sometimes think that vision can solve most of its own problems , but mistaken visions – or an overly ambitious vision of vision – can do harm . george h.w. bush was faulted for ( and faulted himself ) not having what he called “ vision thing . ” when pressed for his staff to speak more boldly and expansively , he replied that “ this is just not me . ” following the shock of the september 2001 terrorist attacks , his son , george w. bush , developed a far more ambitious vision .
and the private sector has come to a head around to viewing renewable energies as potentially profitable business . in the us , the cost of wind power has fallen by two-thirds since 2009 . likewise , according to a recent american department of energy report , the number of employment in wind and solar industries has increased by 32 % , and by 25 % by 2016 alone . trump ’s policy priorities will inevitably clash with those of states , such as california , which have been taking the initiative to encourage climate-minded technological innovation . and , fortunately for the planet , other global powers are not joining trump in backing back to their climate commitments .
moreover , if conditions within the eurozone continue to deteriorate , asia could be hit even more severely . already , spillover effects from trade and transmission channels are beginning to take their toll : china ’s gdp growth rate in the second quarter of 2012 averaged 7.6 % , reflecting a substantial slowdown , and india ’s growth rate is expected to fall to roughly 6 % this year . china ’s potentially strong domestic-demand base and ample room for policy maneuvers can help avoid a hard landing . already , it has aggressively loosened monetary policy , and it can employ more fiscal stimulus . but policy mismanagement and structural weaknesses within the financial sector and local governments could undermine efforts to safeguard growth .
using historical data compiled by the economic historian angus maddison , they show how other eastern asian countries have experienced slowing economic growth after their per capita gdp reached around $ 11,000 in purchasing-power-parity terms relative to america ’s constant 1990 dollar prices , or $ 17,000 in constant 2005 american dollar prices . over the five years since japan reached that level , for example , its economy has grown at an average annual rate of 3.6 % . in south korea , us growth has fallen to 4.8 % . in hong kong , it has slowed to 5.8 % . given that china is projected to cross the same threshold sometime this year , many believe that its average annual growth rate over the next five years will fall well short of 7 % .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . pompeo ’s primary line of attack against obama ’s famous cairo speech “ a new beginning , ” is that it included the united states ’ public admission of history missteps in the region . in contrast to the trump administration , obama and his advisers believed that much can be gained from acknowledging difficult political truths , even at the same time that doing so points to a radical change in course .
some of the best people serving the ecb – or who have served in history – are from small countries . preventing small countries – as do other large ones – from competing on specific vacant seats reduces the ecb ’s potential competencies to power . giving big countries permanent seats on the ecb ’s executive board also makes it easier for their policymakers to control the ecb through appointments processes . it is far more difficult to appoint a political puppet to the governing board within a system of open competition than under the current scheme . the last thing the ecb needs is german chancellor gerhard schroeder , assuming that mr. issing was a pivotal post .
yet labor costs have increased much faster in the south , resulting in differential costs that can not be addressed through devaluation as long as the monetary union endures . as long as this internal divergence persists , the crisis in the euro can not be fully resolved , because current-account deficits and/or slow growth will continue stalk southern european countries , perpetuating worries about sovereign-debt and commercial banks . here , the productivity growth , whether through technical progress or better resource allocation or productive investment , is just as important a variable for southern economies as wage restraint . indeed , excessive wage deflation is likely to have negative effects on productivity . skilled labor is likely to emigrate more cheaply , with extreme austerity , falling prices , and high unemployment – and the resulting likelihood of social tension – not just conducive to investment , innovation , or labor mobility .
that does not mean , of course , that no identity is claimed . former prime minister john major called the uk “ the country of the long shadows on cricket grounds , warm beer , invincible green suburbs , dog lovers , and pools of state and , as george orwell put it , ‘ the old maids ’ were going to communion through the morning fog ’ … but what he was actually describing was england . ” indeed , key elements of modern british identity all seem to belong to england , rather than to an even composite entity . likewise , the established or state church of england is almost 500 years ago , when king henry viii decided that the catholic pope should not adjudicate his marriage of the state . an institution called the english heritage curates the past , from the prehistoric monuments of stonehenge to the old country ’s houses , which are glorifying in television costume dramas .
both abe and obama focus on creating durable structures of peace for all in asia , and abe has been eager for japan to play an even more active role in doing so , as well as in supporting its allies . that stance is making the alliance a much more equal partner than it has for the past six decades . in america ’s view , a reinterpretation of article 9 of japan ’s “ peace constitution ” that abe has committed has enabled – thus permitting japan ’s self-defense forces to support allies under assault , and helping the us and other allies to fulfill their pledges to securing asia ’s peace – has long been overdue . that bold policy initiative – in the face of the japanese public ’s deeply ingrained skepticism toward any heightened us exposure to military risks – has no doubt endeared abe to us diplomats and military strategists , just like securing both open and at times tacit approval by japan ’s asian neighbors . increased military cooperation with the us is particularly important now , given american fears about many of its other strategic partners ’ readiness .
iran is at a pivotal moment in its history – and , as the long-lines of citizens eager to cast their votes made clear , iranians know it . indeed , despite the iranian regime ’s lack of transparency , khamenei ’s health problems are public insight . khamenei himself recently acknowledged that the probability that his successor should be named in the near future was “ not low . ” the matter of who occupies the presidency during that transition is surely not inconsequential . with khamenei serving as president before rising to iran ’s supreme political and religious leadership position , it is easy to see that the conservative candidate khatami ’s elected , who was elected , might become khamenei ’s successor .
furthermore , there are north korea ’s evolving nuclear weapons , its economic fragility , and insecurity concerning its very future as the nation-state , fueling deep-seated anxiety among its neighbors . and yet , despite all these obstacles , there are signs that momentum is building for greater regional cooperation to overcome them . the recent trilateral summit with china , south korea , and japan is a fourth such meeting to take place , in addition to meetings that take place at international gatherings such as asean summits . sadly , however , the leaders of china ( china ) , south korea , and japan have yet to make any major breakthrough on the most sensitive security issues that divide them . but this lack of quick success does not mean that these efforts are futile .
and , obviously , hard-pressed middle-class american consumers benefit immensely from low-cost chinese imports – walmart ’s impact – that is , allowing them to stretch their budgets in an era of unrelenting pressure on jobs and real incomes . for more than 20 years , this mutually beneficial codependency has served both countries well in compensating for their intrinsic saving imbalances , while satisfying their respective growth agendas . but here , too , there should be no view of history as prologue . a seismic shift , at the other hand , is the tip of america ’s recent fiscal follies , and may well be the tipping point . as china has made conscious strategic choices about changing its growth strategy .
ten-year treasury bond yields now yield at just 2.5 % , and the rate on ten-year treasury bonds now stands at just 2.5 % . with the current inflation rate at more than 2 % and markets anticipating a similar rate of inflation over the longer run ( as measured by a five-year-forward inflation expectations ) , yields on ten-year treasury bonds should be above 4 % . a rise in ten-year us ten-year yields to 4 % would reduce the value of those bonds substantially . other long-term bonds – both us government bonds and corporate bonds – would suffer similar declines . reached yield has also narrowed credit spreads between highly grade bonds and riskier domestic and emerging-market bonds .
without this confidence , credit will not flow and economic activity will be constrained . moreover , because financial institutions ’ assets were bought mainly with borrowed money , credit shortages are exacerbated by their need for deleveraging . having raised capital is difficult and expensive , credit deleverage by lending , less . but the macroeconomic weakness of america now goes beyond what the fed decreased credit supply . collapsing house prices depress household wealth , and therefore consumer spending , in the long run . falling employment lowers wages and wages .
allowing america to sell its risky financial products and engage in speculation all over the world may have served its firms well , even if it imposes large costs on others . nowadays , the risks are that the new keynesian doctrines will be used and abused in order to serve some of the same interests . have those who pushed deregulation ten years ago learned their lesson ? or will they simply push for cosmetic reforms – the minimal needed to justify a mega-trillion dollar bailout in the us ? has heart change really been changed , or only strategy change really happened ?
this growth , after all , has powered a wide variety of factors . wage restraint and productivity gains have enhanced competitiveness and thus boosted exports . and now that lower oil prices , together with a five-percentage-point drop in unemployment , reinforce consumption ; the recovery is extending to other sectors . in short , the credibility that ireland has gained through resolute fiscal policy and reform has helped to restore trust , facilitate a return to growth , and thus fiscal consolidation . of course , the precise policy approach adopted in one country , unlike that pursued by the eu , can not be imitated elsewhere .
the third component is the exercise of suasion on bondholders to attain maximum participation , secure binding pre-commitments , and eliminate free riders . because the scheme would imply losses for bondholders , substantial official muscle , as well as peer pressure . but , to gain time for a more orderly resolution , mitigating contagion , and reducing the magnitude of an eventual write-down actually add to the superior outcome . that is why , under this model – and despite initial pressure – bondholders ’ behavior can , despite the initial pressure , be deemed truly voluntary . and , whereas rating agencies might still regard vienna-type outcome as a implicit , the talmudic sages show us why the more thoughtful classification is required .
in some sense , market-economy is a gift-exchange-rate system ; money simply tracks the value of gifts that we give one another in . as a result , a market economy encourages specialization : we become very good at a narrow set of skills or products ; and exchange them for one thing in which we have no clue how to have the skills or make . as a result , we end up doing remarkably few things and buying everything else from others . that observation is as true about the individual as it is about a place , whether the eu is an neighborhood , a city , a state or province , or a country . each town has grocery stores , beauty parlors , gas stations , and movie theaters that serve local communities .
another consortium began to build multibillion dollar oil and gas pipelines from azerbaijan through georgia , to turkey and the west . but these investments brought no economic trickle down . people here survive on a few dollars per day ; the price of oil and gas pipelines is transportation conduits , rather than the real employers . moreover , georgia ’s reward for providing the strategic export route to the west for azeri oil was dollars , not diplomatic insurance policies – namely , western countries , in particular the us , concern the safety of pipelines .
japanese stock prices are worth half their 1990 prices , which were held by the us . even in hong kong , where shares recently hit new highs , they are only 10 percentage points above their pre-1994 highs . in the same three year , prices in wall street and europe skyrocketed by 60 % or more . this picture bears no relation to what we hear in political speeches or reading at business newspapers . policymakers warn about the challenge posed by asia ’s “ tiger economies ” .
national banking systems should be unified in separate private losses from sovereign debt with centralized supervision and resolution authority , as well as deposit-insurance arrangements , forming the core of europe ’s banking union . strong central institutions – accountable to a directly elected parliament – are needed to coordinate fiscal and economic policy . over a shorter period , one market should extend to services , and free-trade arrangements should be promoted either multilaterally or bilaterally with major trading partners like the united states . austerity should be eased , especially with fiscally stronger core economies and substantial resources devoted to boosting youth employment and investment in the over-indebted small and medium-size firms . germany ’s unwillingness to lead on these issues partly mirrors historical inhibitions , which have always been difficult to overcome .
china , who just celebrating martial pomp ’s sixtieth anniversary of mao ’s founding as “ the people ’s republic ” represents one of the most interesting cases of a nation evincing “ short-termism ” toward its recent history . china has a lot to show for in its recent history . just consider india ’s massive access to education of its huge rural populations , compared with its “ democratic rival , ” india . so china ’s pride in today is legitimate . in sixty years of a weak and divided countryside , one torn apart by wars inside and external ones concerns about becoming the world ’s second most powerful economy . china ’s insolent prosperity , while it is far from distributed in an equally integrated way , is china ’s relative political stability , despite the regime ’s opening , remain strictly restricted , undeniable , and deserve respect .
the interest-rate premium that the market would inevitably demand from a young sovereign like scotland would be minimized by issuing sterling debt , thereby protecting investors from additional devaluation risk . but , without its own currency-issuing central bank , scotland would forego seigniorage ( profits from central-bank operations that typically benefit the national treasury ) . perhaps more important , it would have no lender of last resort to stabilizing the banking and financial system in a crisis . all things , considered , an independent scotland would be best served by issuing its own national currency , from the outset to empowering scotland ’s national bank to set interest rates under domestic economic conditions . by allowing for exchange-rate flexibility , it would also allow the central bank to avoid the twin dangers that emerge in a currency union : undervaluation , which generates inflationary pressure and overvaluation , which demands wrenching internal devaluations ( driving down real wages ) .
value-subtracting heavy industries shrunk , service expanded to more than 50 % of gdp , and the private sector generates nearly 60 % of russia ’s output . although transition was bound to be painful , russia ’s endemic corruption epidemic has caused more political harm than the economic side effects of reform . government tolerance of bribery and racketeering enabled opponents to say that “ mafia ” grabbing the gains of economic change . the government , and thus economic reform , will pay off that neglect at the polls . throughout the ex-communist world , corruption blights reform .
he is neither corrupt nor a criminal war , aggressive in his utterance and behavior , nor likely bend a law for personal power . many people have voted on by default , both now and at a time when he defeated miloševic in 2000 . though he does not sacrifice prominent moral doctrines to power , koštunica is not the unassuming lawyer he once was . he crams his mediocrities party , selects mostly bad advisers , and dislisten to the rare good . perhaps he is that his image as right-of-center democrat conceals a reactionary who would like serbia to rebuild its pre-wwii monarchy , and that for an orthodox church to play a major role in political and social life .
or the yellow vests may turn out to lack that boldness , settle for the paltry pleasure being seen on television . they will allow themselves to become intoxicated by the sight of luminaries and experts of la france d’en shade ( elite france ) seeming to eat from their hands and hanging on his every word . but if the yellow vests allow passionate hate to win out over genuine fraternity , electing wrecking over reforming , they will only lead to chaos , not improvement , to humble lives and vulnerable people . they will careen on the darkest side of the political night , ending in the dustbin of history , where they may elbows with those other yellows , the early-twentieth-century “ yellow socialists ” of the proto-fascist syndicalist pierre biétry . the yellow vests must choose : a democratic invention , or an updated version of national socialist leagues ; the willingness to repair ; or the urge for destruction .
according to iranian-turkish business council vice president mahmoud ahmadinejad , it has become extraordinarily complicated to do business in iran . ” an former turkish diplomat in iran has described a commercial climate in stark terms : “ it is as if iranians prefer a lose/lose outcome to win/win one in its dealings with foreign partners . ” what lessons can be drawn out of the failure of turkish businesses within iran ? some blame appalling infrastructure and high highway taxes . others suggest that iran ’s nearly non-existent banking system is the culprit . still others blame america ’s “ invisible hand , ” which is supposedly to fear that iran and turkey could become too powerful .
moreover , we must invest in research and development of low-cost diabetes treatments and diagnostic tools that fit lower-resource environments . smart collaborative projects to bring innovative thinkers from nonprofits , academia and the private sector together to create effective , affordable , and appropriate solutions are in desperate need . diabetes is not unique among ncds ; we are desperately poor people . essential medicines and technologies for diagnosing and treating heart disease , cancer and respiratory ailments are also substantially less accessible – and proportionally more expensive for people in low - and middle-income countries than they are for people in the rich world . this mismatch prompted the lancet to call the ncd crisis a “ social justice matter for our time . ”
south orange , new jersey – if an international organization made recommendations for improving the country ’s economies more than half , the organization might seem like a failure . but an international organization to examine the quality of information and advice that it provides , not by whether governments listen . indeed , measuring its success solely on compliance ignores the purpose : encouraging – and facilitating – reform by informing officials about its costs and benefits . every 18 months , the organization for economic cooperation and development releases an economic survey of each of its 34 member countries , including a list of previous recommendations and performance . in its 2010 united nations survey , the oecd made 29 recommendations , from rebuilding the national electricity grid to expanding health-care coverage to implementing a cap-and-trade scheme .
at the same time , he must do nothing to weaken america ’s alliances with south korea and japan , which will require him to maintain close engagement with both moon and japanese prime minister shinzo abe throughout the process , lest either leader feel either ignoring or undermining . moreover , he will be needed to keep all alternatives to the table , despite the military options that are becoming less tenable in the context of inter-korean dialogue . what is most important is the north korea regime , at the very least , must be done to admit that genuine denuclearization is the goal and agree on a process to pursue continued dialogue , possibly culminating in a further summit . whatever the outcome , trump would do well to question himself if it is any better than a joint comprehensive plan of action with iran that he has described has “ the worst deal ever . ” then again , persuading trump to engage in self-reflection can prove the toughest challenge yet to come .
another avenue for looking at the german election outcome , then , is as an opportunity for a new start . a cdu-spd “ grand coalition ” might mean an end to political stagnation not just in germany , but in the european level as a whole . germany ’s post-election coalition negotiations are now underway and with the fdp determined not to join the government , the most likely result is a “ jamaica ” alliance ( named for the colors of that country ’s banner ) comprising the cdu , the free democrats ( fdp ) , and the greens . germany ’s next government , one hopes , will include pro-european politicians with fresh ideas and a willingness to press for european-level reform , possibly along with the lines of what macron has proposed . in that case , a new crop of leaders could be a driving force shaping germany ’s role in europe in the years ahead .
timing was not likely to have been worse than in decades . the elimination of fuel subsidies triggered riots and widespread strikes against the transition government , giving nigeria ’s generals a pretext to reassert military control . it would have lasted for six years , under rapacious military rule , before nigeria received another chance at democracy . last year , nigeria celebrated the spectacular escape of dictatorship . after the brutal and hyper-corrupt military ruler general sani abacha – suddenly dropped dead – the army sullenly agreed to another national election in march .
these barriers are particularly high for lgbtqi individuals , women with disabilities , indigenous women , rural women , and adolescents . in place of sidestepping the question of sexual and reproductive health – and gender equity more broadly – governments must accept their responsibilities to address women ’s needs . they need to consider a central role that sexual and reproductive health plays in women ’s lives – women ’s integrated nature of health and its impact to communities . and they must design uhc programs accordingly . for example , to reduce maternal mortality , antenatal attention is not enough to offer secure delivery , and postnatal care ; women also need access to safe , legal , and affordable abortion services and post-abortion care .
likewise , little progress toward nuclear disarmament has been made in disregard of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty . brazil ’s abundance of energy , food , water , and biodiversity increases its stakes in the security environment , characterized by rising competition for access , or the control of , natural resources . to meet the challenge of this complex reality , brazil ’s peaceful foreign policy must support robust defense policies . brazil ’s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , argues that arming the armed forces is intrinsically linked to national development . it thus emphasizes the need to strengthen domestic defense industry .
yangon ming , a chinese star of the national basketball association ’s houston rockets , could well become another michael jordan , and china is set to host the 2008 summer olympics . large expatriate communities in the us – 2.4 million chinese and 1.7 million indians – have raised their interest in their home countries among others . moreover , transnational connectivity in the information industry is nearing the point of view , as western high-tech firms increasingly employ affiliates in bangalore and shanghai to provide real-time services in real-time terms . but the real promise for china and india lies in the future . the country ’s soft power rests on the attractiveness of its culture , its appeal to its domestic political and social values , and its foreign policies ’ style and substance .
the european commission ’s agreement in september to postpone full implementation of ukraine ’s association agreement with the european union – an agreement that ukrainians fought and die in kyiv last winter – signaled to putin ’s cunning , force , and intimidation can win western acquiescence in his subjugation of ukraine and the theft of crimea . a delay intended to show the eu ’s determination to make an association agreement work has instead merely whetted putin ’s appetite . his hope is that some eu members ’ interest in securing russian gas supplies during the winter will cause them to forgetting their own security interests for their allies – a classic divide-and-rule strategy served chilean . europeans are unable to afford to seize on it . ukraine may now simply pass through the eye of storms .
to this end , reframe a constitution is critical to integrate regional interests , and to recognize that the uk is a multinational state . such radical change – and , to match the scale of the crisis , it will have to become radical – will require a nationwide debate that could be conducted through the constitutional convention of people . that convention should start by examining brexit ’s impact on regions . for example , we should ask ourselves whether it makes sense to repatriate powers and financial transfers from brussels to westminster or to the point that some powers and financing should rather devolve to regions and peoples . where possible , regional funds and policymaking powers – including environmental regulation and oversight of agriculture , fisheries , and local social programs – should be delegated to the appropriate regional bodies , such as the scottish parliament , welsh and northern irish assemblies , city mayors , and local authorities .
as a result , the us is no longer on a strong footing with setting the global agenda . the eu might n’t possibly take the eu the way the world leader . but it can establish a example , both within its own borders and beyond . the prospect of membership has been the most potent tool in turning candidate countries into open societies . although most of its citizens fail to realize this , the eu serves as an inspiring example .
to be sure , putin believes that the olympics – and , in particular , medals – have become highly consequential . like his old soviet masters , he conflates athletic glory with military glory . that is why he personally lobbied for russia to host the 2014 olympics in sochi ; an unprecedented $ 50 billion price tag was well worth considering that russia won the most medals . ( it was russia ’s deeds during the sochi olympics , which forms the core of the doping scandal . ) this is not to say that athletic glory substitutes military glory .
that , however , is simply an attempt to virtue out a necessity : for a country with one of the world ’s largest and most storied bureaucracies , china has a surprising time-telling time , with no means to do business with someone , particularly an historic friend and ally . chinese leaders ’ longstanding reluctance to engage in international sanctions often bears their faith in judging actions by or without working . perhaps actual pragmatism on display in north korea is a reluctance to rein in the business community at a time of slower growth and internal fixation . china ’s rise is one of our most studied developments of our time . it is , after all , a country that may be able to describe itself as a civilization , and its trajectories so far have been more impressive than that of any north korean rocket .
washington , dc – the steep drop in the price of crude oil since late june has grabbing headlines headlines worldwide – producing a number of contradictory explanations . some attribute the windfall largely to declining global growth expectations . others focus on the expansion of american oil and gas production . still others suspect a tacit agreement , among other things , between saudi arabia and the united states , on target grounds that they are weakening political rivals such as russia and iran . no matter how reason a price drop – probably to be found in some combination of these factors – is the consequences are just as well .
at a moment , the situation in global crude oil is particularly intriguing . at around $ 30 a barrel , oil prices remain stubbornly high even when soft global economics means that world demand is low . the previously fashionable view that the american seizure of iraqi oil resources would have shattered opec and sent plummeting oil prices turned out to be nonsense . even with improved security , it will take more than 5 years to obtain oil fully at a stream of crude oil . with america 's economy now recovering strongly , oil prices would have to stay high , or even rise further , in the foreseeable future .
after all , if markets were to truly believe that the ecb would refuse to backstop errant governments , investors would be running away from participating countries at the first sign that conditionality is not being met . as with her predecessor , the ecb ’s securities market program , the omt program is legally and democratically doubtful : it violates the spirit , but not a letter of the european union ’s no-bailout clause ; its promise of equal treatment with private creditors still has no precedent ; and it involves back-doors fiscal transfers , leaving the ecb heavily exposed to a political backlash – witness the visceral reaction of the german press to ecb president mario draghi ’s announcement . but omts also fit well with the large body of historical evidence that , during times of crisis , policymakers must focus on extinguishing the fire , rather than negotiating over who owns the water and whatever cost its money should have been . the omt program causes credit conditions to ease , but without necessarily reversing the financial balkanization of the eurozone that has occurred over the last three years . reversing
for starters , bipartisan premium support proposals , with seniors receiving grants to purchase private health insurance , should be implemented . to enable individuals to prepare to cover related deductibles and copayments , the health savings accounts – funds that are not subject to a deposit tax at a time of deposit revenue and are able to be used tax-free anytime soon to cover qualified medical expenses – should be expanded and strengthened . premium support can significantly reduce medicare spending , because it establishes a framework for more efficient cost-based spending on benefits , driven by competition and innovation in care and coverage . so far , the only american presidential candidate recognizing the need for such a future-oriented approach is former florida governor jeb bush , who has proposed modernizing social-welfare and medicare reforms that avoid imposing high costs on middle-income americans and heavier future debt burdens . two other republican candidates , ohio governor john kasich and florida senator marco rubio , are also raising constructive reform ideas .
silvio berlusconi , which becomes president of the european union on july 1 st , is a man of vision , who once loved the risk – and whose business bets paid off big . in the 1960s , he was the first to see milan , then the traditional italian city , where people walked to work , became a modern metropolis surrounded by american-style suburbs . so his fortune started in real-estate development as well . fifteen years later , signor berlusoni understood that the italian state ’s monopoly of television would not survive and begin what has become italy ’s main privately owned media group . but you do not triumph at tv and real-estate business without the right political connections .
beijing – financial repression – government policies that create an environment of low or negative real interest rates with the goal of generating low-cost financing to public spending – has long been a pivotal feature in chinese economic policy . but , with funding costs for businesses trending , that is finally starting to change . early this year , the state council , china ’s cabinet , made the funding costs to businesses , especially small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , the highest priority . for its part , the people ’s ( pboc ) people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has engaged in cautious monetary loosening , which includes freeing up more lending funds by banks that allocate a certain share of their total lending portfolio to small and medium-size enterprises . through its “ pledged supplementary lending ” program , the pboc also began lending directly to banks that pledged to use social housing funds .
countries with the greatest cause for concern with russia -- ukraine , estonia , latvia , and lithuania -- do not have to offer nato membership . moreover , russia today is far too weak to threaten them because the russian military 's disastrous misadventure in chechnya demonstrates it . one day russia will be stronger , and if expanding nato to central europe now would discourage a revival of imperial foreign policy then this would be a powerful argument in favor of doing so . but nato expansion is not likely to make russian foreign policy more peaceful at any moment . russia 's democrats , who have an enormous stake in a peaceful future , are adamant that expanding alliance membership to central europe will insulate their countries from europe , reinforcing russian political forces that favor authoritarian rule at home and neoimperial policies abroad , and by appearing to threaten russia provide a rallying point for reconstructing russian military power .
but that would presuppose a small gesture toward the palestinians , who israelis regard themselves as being so deeply divided among themselves that no progress toward an eventual peace settlement looks possible . israel ’s leaders seem intent on gaining time both tactically , by resisting the soft pressures of us president barack obama ’s administration and strategically , by preparing the country for a new world , in which emerging powers like china play an increasingly important role . that world will be , however , one in which israel can no longer count on feelings of holocaust guilt to influence major powers . it is a world in which monotheistic rivalries are likely to be diluted in the ocean of polytheist faiths and in which israel depends only on itself on its comparative merits in the eyes of cynical , realistic actors , who will judge it solely on the core of their own national interest . israel may be “ europe , ” and its main ally may well remain the united states for many years to come , but israeli leaders must begin thinking about how their country can thrive
the final trick , “ starve the beast , ” usually comes at a later point if and when president bush enacted his tax cuts and discovers that smoke and mirrors that do not trump reality . he can not find enough spending to cut ( the magic asterisk went out the conjurer ’s sleeve ) ; accelerating gdp is nowhere to be seen ( a rosy scenario that has vanished ) ; and tax revenues have not grown ( no rabbit in laffer hat ) . now the audience is told to be the loss of tax revenue and expanding the budget deficit was the intended all along . performer explains that the deficits are all the fault of congress for failing to cut spending ; and that the only way to tame the beast is to raise the budget deficit because “ congress ca n’t spend the money it does not have . ” that trick never works either .
but , too , there is a growing need to mobilize european public opinion around a symbolic symbolic symbolic of our unity and our future projects : and that symbol is the flag of europe . for this reason , in january one of us initiated a notion that , starting on march 21 , we display the flag on houses , factories and offices . march 21 is the first day of spring , and we would like to believe that the upcoming european elections herald a new spring for the european project . march 21 , too , marks the anniversary of benedict ’s death , the patron saint of europe . in one of the darkest hours of the roman empire ’s demise , benedict issued a stirring call for tolerance and piety to rebuild a sense of community in the face of nihilism and barbara barbarity .
this fits the broader trend , in which perpetrators of muslim backgrounds attack terrorism immediately classify as “ acts of terror ” and tackle them in well-resourced and systemically important ways , while violent attacks perpetrated in name of other ideologies treat this as an “ isolated incident ” in name . but there is nothing isolated about such incidents . according to the global terrorism index 2018 , the death toll from terrorist attacks linked by far-right groups or individuals has been steadily increasing since 2014 . indeed , in the united states , right-wing extremists have pursued far more attacks than islamists . the attacks in christchurch in march were directly inspired by norway ’s 2011 far-right terrorist attack , of which i am one of the few lucky survivors .
the fruit of the franco-german partnership included the united states of the european single currency . after its birth in may 1999 , germany ’s government , by now relocated from bonn to berlin , contented itself with a lower european profile once again . that modest , unassuming role belongs firmly in the past , although germany still needs to match imagination . intellectual leadership provided by frenchmen like jean monnet and robert schuman as the founding fathers of the european project is fading memory for the eu , because germany still has generated a comparably robust strategy for reviving its prospects and popularity . indisputably , the eu , which is the most reliable and dependable of 28 member countries , lacks the vision of where beleaguered europe is to head .
in what might have been termed a “ vendor finance ” for china , china has been engaged in what is helping fund the enormous american fiscal and trade deficits , allowing america to buy up more goods than it sells . but this is a peculiar scheme : a relatively poor country helps finance america ’s iraq war just as it is through a massive tax cut to the world ’s richest people , while enormous needs at home imply ample room for expansion of both consumption and investment . in fact , to meet the challenge of restructuring china ’s economy away from exports and resource-intensive goods , china must stimulate consumption . while the rest of the world struggles to raise saving , china , with a savings rate at more than 40 % , is struggling to get its people to consume more . providing better social services ( public health care , education , and nation-wide retirement programs ) would reduce the need for “ precautionary ” savings .
selling the five-rupee sachets shampoo to poor consumers is deemed clever marketing , yet lending 5,000 rupees to a starving peasant at high interest rates is viewed as exploitative . after all , both activity is financed by investors looking for returns on their capital and motivated more by profit than compassion . but one is clearly less socially acceptable than another . high-paid salary earned by cosmetics or soft-drink manufacturer attracts no attention ; one paid to the ceo of a company that thrives on lending to the poor appears unseemly , if not immoral . yet pmfis have succeeded by meeting a genuine need .
berkeley – advances in artificial intelligence and robotics are powering a new wave of automation , with machines matching or outperforming humans in a fast-growing array of tasks , including some requiring complex cognitive capabilities and advanced degrees . this process has outpaced experts ’ expectations ; not surprisingly , its possible adverse effects on quantity and quality of employment have raised serious concerns . to listen to us president donald trump ’s administration , one might think that trade remains the primary reason for lost manufacturing jobs in the united states . trump ’s treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , has declared that the potential technological displacement of us workers is “ not even on [ the administration ] radar screen . ” among economists , however , the consensus is that some 80 of the losses in american manufacturing jobs over the past three decades stem from labor-saving , productivity-enhancing technological change , with trade coming to the distant second .
berkeley – back in the late 1980 ’s , japan seemingly could not do wrong in economists ’ eyes . they saw the clear edge in japan ’s competitiveness relative to the north atlantic across a wide range of high-tech accuracy and mass-manufacturing industries of tradable goods . they also saw the economy that , ever after world war ii , had vastly outperformed the expected growth of europe ’s economies . and they saw the economy growing much more rapidly than north atlantic economies had when they possessed the same levels of absolute – and relative economy-wide productivity . safe bet in the late 1980 ’s seems to be that mechanization , computerization , and robotization would continue .
amos oz , one of israel ’s best known writers , argues that palestinian-israeli wars are actually two wars of two : an “ unjust ” war against israel and jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state in an “ arab palestine , ” as well as a palestinian “ mere ” war for an independent state worthy of the name . conversely , israel is also fighting two wars : a just war to defend its right to exist ; accepted , in integrity and security within the middle east ; and an unjust and futile war to perpetuate its occupation of the west bank and gaza strip and the jewish settlements stationed there . some 220,000 israeli settlers are currently settlers in the west bank and gaza , excluding approximately 190,000 people living in jerusalem ’s neighborhoods that extend beyond the pre-1967 borders of israel , divided jerusalem . despite the intifada , the number of settlers fell in just a little more than 144 settlements , with more than 7,000 settlers living in gaza strip alone , in 16 communities occupying 20 % of impoverished land , which already suffer one of
the reaction of the market has been to send spanish government bond rates even higher . contrary to some perceptions , europeans have not remained inactive over the past year . but they have lost touch , too . like aging magicians , they still try tricks that have used to impress but fail to deliver results – or , worse , to prove counterproductive . meanwhile , financial-market fragmentation within the eurozone continues ; spain , and italy , to a lesser extent , suffer the seemingly irresistible rise in borrowing costs ; and political strains have grown more visible .
with asia riven by territorial disputes and historical tensions , maintaining a stable security balance will not be easy . but levers of action are underway to help . back in the 1990s , when american president bill clinton ’s administration considered how to respond to china ’s mounting economic might , some urged containment policies . clinton denied this advice : it would have been impossible to forge an anti-china alliance , given china ’s enduring desire to maintain good neighborly relations with it ; more important , such a policy would have guaranteed future enmity with china . instead , clinton chose a policy that could be called “ integrate and insure . ”
interests and identities are dynamically formed because politicians are making representation and citizens responsive . trump , for example , has doubtless succeeded in persuading some americans to view themselves as part of something such as the white identity movement . but that identity – and the way his adherents frame their own interests – could change again . the image of irresistible populist “ wave ” was always misleading . farage did not throw about brexit any by himself .
they will facilitate interactions across their network to stimulate the development of innovation ecosystems . the resulting opportunities to expand beyond traditional products and markets will enable pharmaceutical companies to develop into companies offering a variety of health-care solutions . those will include not just prescription medicines , but also diagnostics , branded generics , and productivity-enhancing technologies that foster personalized medicine , as well as so-called “ neutraceutist ” and other “ wellness options . ” although size in many r & d organizations is bound to reduce such reforms , the complexity of governance and maximizing the impact of this external web of relationships will demand new skills and capabilities over and above those of excellent science . developing and rewarding employees who possess such skills will be the extra but welcome challenge .
economics is not the kind of science in which a model can ever exist , which works best in all contexts . the point is not “ to reach consensus about which model is right , ” as romer puts it , but instead figure out which model applies best in a given setting . and do that always remain craft rather than science . the social world differs from a physical world because it is man-made , and thus almost infinitely malleable in the future . so , in contrast to the natural sciences , economics advances scientifically not by substituting old models with the better , but by expanding its library of models with every shedding light on a different type of social contingency .
today , india accounts for only one-third of total employment in china , compared to one-half in india . india ’s structural transformation and sustainable growth will hinge on its effort to build a flexible labor market , centered on easing obsolete , complicated employment laws . legal protections for india ’s formal sector exceed those of most developed countries , as well as for china ’s mandated requirements rising to the workforce as the workforce grows . as jagdish bhagwati and arvind panagariya have pointed out , excessive labor-market regulations discourage indian entrepreneurs from employing unskilled workers and developing labor-intensive manufacturing , implying that india ’s government must redouble its reform efforts in this area . equally important , indian workers – particularly young people – need opportunities to upgrade skills continuously .
the new policy explicitly encourages chinese enterprises to work with local enterprises in sectors such as logistics , electricity , and information systems , and encourages interaction between business , community , and government leaders . equally important , policies are also expelling the availability of chinese funding , credits , and insurance to investors . taken together , this holistic approach is something new . despite considerable political uncertainty in a wide array of countries in latin america , it appears keen for governments in the region to meet china ’s reform efforts with changes of their own . for example , brazil ’s government has promoted an “ investment partnership program ” to coordinate investment in finance and transport infrastructure industries .
to be sure , gdp composition eventually gives the acid test of whether china had succeeded . the key word here , however , is “ eventually . ” it is far too early to expect major shifts toward aggregate demand . for now , we look far beyond the question of examining trends to the potential determinants of chinese consumption . from this perspective , there is good reason for optimism , especially given accelerated growth in china ’s service sector – one of the key building blocks of consumer-led rebalancing .
to be sure , the us presidency grants trump considerable power to shape us trade policy , so one can not ignore the possibility that he will pursue protectionist measures to appease his supporters . but , ultimately , broad-based support in the us is not on track to return to closed borders . europe , meanwhile , has moved in the opposite direction . european multinationals are also running large stakes in the chinese economy , with eu manufacturing exports to china and other emerging markets now almost double those of the us . many europeans see trade as an opportunity , rather than a threat to jobs ; and , even europe ’s staunchest anti-globalizers are showing little appetite for more protectionism .
at that time , manafort was indebted to the russian oligarch olleg deripaska , a aluminum tycoon close to us president vladimir putin , to a tune of $ 19 million . deripaska , whom trump is subject to us sanctions , previously maintained a decade of $ 10 million annual deal with manafort . like other russian oligarchs deripaska , manafort is unaware of an agreement with people displeased him . after taking the job , manafort emed a ukraine-based employee , “ how do [ that ] we apply [ this ] to get all ? ” manafort also offered to brief deripaska about what went on to trump ’s campaign .
kyiv – from snowden to kyiv , i watched successful revolutions in cairo and tunis with joy and admiration . egyptians and tunisians are right to be proud of their desire to overthrow despotic governments peacefully . but , with someone leading in a peaceful revolution in the past , i hope the tempered by pragmatism , owing to the regime ’s change , only to be seen as the first step in establishing a democracy backed by the rule of rule of law . indeed , as my country , ukraine , now demonstrates after revolutionary euphoria fades and normalcy return , democratic revolutions are possible and reversed . the first lesson of ukraine ’s lesson for the egyptian and tunisian democrats is that elections are not an electoral force for democracy .
increasingly , we are taking advantage of our fingerprints or the face of unlock our smartphones , paying for purchasing and board airplanes . protecting against theft is obvious : what uses is a phone , a car , or a ticket that works only for their own legitimate owner ? above all , biometrics can protect against the theft of our identities on one own . that ’s the argument behind the world ’s largest biometrics project , a multimodal solution ( iris , fingerprints , and facial ) affecting more than one billion indians . nandan nilekani , chairman of infosys , who left his job to create a system known as aadhaar , credits that it had rescued the indian government roughly $ 9 billion by eliminating duplicate and false identities in government beneficiary lists .
pittsburgh – almost six months ago , at a moment of great alarm over the global financial and economic crisis , g-20 leaders met for a historic summit in london . their collective commitments to stimulate , regulate , and restructure global economic activity helped calm nerves around the world . many of the problems that spurred the london summit remain real . anxiety levels may have come down , within board rooms and stock markets – but the daily drama for survival continues . indeed , for many people it deepened , in the world ’s least-developed countries , the villages and streets – especially in africa . the united nations and the world bank predict that it will make sense for the direct and indirect effects of a economic meltdown for many of the developing world for a time to come .
were we observing the appearance of someone who is intimate knowledge of catastrophes yet to come ? or was she just the most beautiful girl at the party – one avid adolescent asked to france , and then kept firmly on ? the world is now collectively writing a new novel . roth skillfully distilled the tragic and comic elements of that process , we talked about the forces that might be able to rise up to the dark tide of vulgarity and violence under trump . the first is the country ’s sovereign people , who poured into the streets of every large town in a country with knowledge that , in terms of overall votes , it is trump that won the election .
perhaps simpson , for his most part , was having change in heart . he had , perhaps , traveled his own road to damascus , come face-to-face with what he did and who , repented and wanted to redress some of the damage he had done to america , and to his long-run economic-growth prospects that he had brought . but , even in that case , naming those who misbehave to important positions of high trust and acclaim them as bipartisan statesmen gives the next generation really lousy incentives . and it is not as though congressional republicans think they owe enough simpson to swing a single vote in either chamber of legislature . obama officials assured me that simpson , indeed , has had a change of heart ; that he was a smart man with a sophisticated understanding of the issue ; that he could sway reporters and get them to describe the commission ’s advice as “ bipartisan ” ( though he can not exert sway on actual legislators ) ; and that he would be a genuine asset for substantive work .
what demographers call the overall fertility rate is the average number of live births per woman over her lifetime . in the long run , a population is said to be stable if a tfr is at the replacement rate , which is at a low of 1.4 for the world as a whole , somewhat lower , to 2.1 , for developed countries , reflecting their lower infant-mortality rates . the tfr for most other advanced countries now stands well below replacement levels . the oecd average is around 1.74 , but some countries , including germany and japan , generate less than 1.4 children per woman . the largest tfr declines , however , in the developing world in recent years .
by 2004 , there were more than a billion subscribers to gsm services worldwide . worldwide , the regulation reach implied huge economies of scale at the manufacture of handsets and network hardware , so prices had fallen rapidly , and interoperability among networks and across countries was much easier to accomplish . many of these regulations played this standard-setting role . contrary to the simplistic view that regulation is inevitably bad for business , three important channels are really made through which regulation can benefit an economy . one is market-creating and market-increasing roles illustrated by the gsm standard .
laguna beach – when i think of the outlook for the global economy and markets , i am taken aback at the extent to which the world has collectively positioned a giant bet on three fundamental outcomes : a shift toward materially higher , more inclusive global growth ; avoidance of policy errors ; and prevention of market accidents . while not all three outcomes are undoubtedly desirable , the unfortunate reality is that they are far from certain – and bets on them without some hedging could prove extraordinarily risky for current and future generations . the first component of tibet – more inclusive global growth – anticipates continued economic recovery in the united states , with a 3 % gdp growth rate this year reinforced , robust wage growth . it also assumes china ’s annual growth rate stabilizing at 6.5-7 % , thereby enabling the risks posed by pockets of excessive leverage in the shadow-banking system to be sequenced gradually , even as the economy ’s growth engines continue to shift from exports and public capital spending to domestic consumption and private investment . another , more precarious assumption underpinning the bet on
bill clinton ’s popularity had risen , after impeachment proceedings ended in march . a majority of americans believed that impeachment was a mistake . many worried that impeachment for the clinton presidency would damage , but that her main impact on presidential power would have been the opposite way . republicans eventually agreed with democrats that responsibility for the debacle lay with kenneth starr ; an independent counsel whose investigation of clinton ’s real-estate dealings years earlier eventually led him to lewinsky . both parties allowed the independent counsel statute to lapse , freeing the presidency from a powerful form of oversight far enough to trump ’s benefit a generation later .
in may 2015 , most recently , large numbers of traditional labour voters deserted their own party to vote for uk independence party ( ukip ) , which was on the brink of a brexit campaign . to be clear , establishment leaders have long been trying to salvage their own skins by ramping up their criticism of the eu for blaming it for demanding that national governments pursue unpopular or failed policies . but that merely put ideas on alternate policies out of reach , while spurring voters to direct their opposition to the eu itself . though establishment parties have criticized the eu , for the most part , they have not lost sight of the benefits of eu membership . indeed , in the uk ’s referendum , the two main parties backed the “ remain ” campaign , although split internally .
and other emerging economies are not likely to pick up the slack . brazil , touted in 2010 as the “ emerging aid player , ” is now in economic and political crisis as south africa does . these challenges are compounded by a new round of financial regulations in the advanced countries , which are hampering the flows of investment and finance into the developing world as well . weakening developing economies ’ incomes further is a slowing global demand slowdown and the commodities crash that , as nobel laureate angus deaton shows , has been catastrophic for much of the developing world . to cap it all , expansionary monetary policies adopted by major economies are fueling instability .
pakistan has a large nuclear-weapons program , and it faces an expansive jihadi insurgency that previously attacked military bases suspected of housing nuclear assets . though pakistan has not experienced a nuclear meltdown , and the government insists that safeguards remain robust , the country ’s increasingly frequent – and severe bouts of instability – raise serious questions about its future . while north korea ’s nuclear arsenal is far smaller , persistent doubts about the regime ’s sustainability make it a matter of grave concern . in case of regime collapse – distinct possibility – the diversion of its assets would have been difficult , or even the use of its weapons . for its part , iran seems relatively stable , at least compared to its neighbors .
but this was not an us-iran accord ; it was negotiated by six leading powers and endorsed by the un . those powers are supposed to give it clear that they would not once again impose sanctions and that any us attempt to impose its will through extraterritorial measures – say , using access to dollar-clearing systems as a foreign-policy tool – would counter coordinated action . for the uk in particular , this may require a willingness to disagree head-on with american foreign policy in a manner that some devotees of the us “ special relationship ” find uncomfortable . as for climate change , the election of a man purports to believe that global warming is a hoax created to damage american business is clearly bad news . but global momentum to tackle climate change can and must be maintained .
paradoxically , under a pessimistic scenario , iran ’s new shia-controlled government actually fits the region at a better time than the current one . after all , saudi arabia , egypt , and many other arab states alike are ruled by authoritarian hardliners with little interest in de-escalation regional conflict . that would make a resurgence of reform-oriented leadership in iran exceedingly difficult . the most likely scenario , of course , is the combination of both dynamics . but , given that it is in everyone ’s interest to ensure that developments hew ever more closely to a reform-oriented path , all the diplomatic work with regard to iran should be obvious to the full extent of the diplomatic work with regard to iran .
in the aftermath of the collapse of lehman brothers in september 2008 , italy ’s then-finance minister giulio tremonti famously endorsed the health of the country ’s banking system . as a result , large recapitalization by the italian banks and the creation of the “ bad bank , ” in order to absorb npls , was viewed as unnecessary . ten years later , italy no longer imagined land of prosperous banks and happy savers . prolonged recession and economic malaise dented the level of individual savings , while banks no longer have the resources to provide the calm of minds to many retail investors whose faith was severely eroded . the implicit banking and savers pact broke in late 2015 , when four troubled local banks bailed in and shareholder sall hit .
many poles remain wary of the church 's equivocal attitude towards democracy , allergic to its aggressive presence in politics . it is a sad paradox , indeed , that in the eyes of many ex-communists in opposing church rule pose as defenders of liberal democratic values that they once persecuted with unreunremitting zeal . kwasniewski 's strategy of seduction appealed to large numbers of young and middle class , but most of all peasant workers , unemployed , those left behind behind by poland 's growing economy . thus , the man who spoke a lot about the future rode to power saddled with the votes of the past . this link will dog kwasniewski 's presidency , and it may be the one in which the party was born of the past .
a consensus is now reached on the need to assist smallholders , but obstacles remain . perhaps key risks are that aid bureaucracies " now trip over each other to try to put their hands on the $ 20 billion to make the point that much it gets through meetings , expert consultations , overhead , news , and further meetings . " partnership " of donors may become an expensive end in themselves , only delaying real action . if donor governments really want results , they should take the money out of thirty or more separate aid bureaucracies and pool it in one or two locations the most logical being the world bank in washington and the international fund for agricultural development ( ifad ) in rome . one or both of these agencies would then account with a few billion dollars .
after all , the brics economies are likely to be the single most important source of future global growth . they represent more than a quarter of earth ’s landmass , above 41 % of its population , almost 25 % of world gdp , and almost half of all foreign-exchange and gold reserves . the brics , in fact , might also be dubbed r-5 after their members ’ currencies – the real , ruble , rupee , renminbi , and rand . at the new delhi summit , brics heads of state in seoul will discuss the creation of joint institutions , particularly a common development bank , which can help mobilize the savings among countries . currently , the brics countries constitute a loose , informal bloc .
on the contrary , he needs to change the talk to reassure voters that their economic future is bright . as it stands , the british , like their counterparts elsewhere in europe , are feeling over-taxed to spooked public services who are being slashed continuously , angry that their incomes have fallen over the last five years . as a result , many resent welfare recipients and fear job competition – a sentiment fueling the rise of populist , anti-eu , and anti-immigrant parties across europe . the key difference within the uk is that ukip is gaining ground with voters despite rapid economic growth ( more than 3 % annually , the highest rate in the eu ) . between now and perhaps , cameron has to persuade voters that the british economy will continue to perform strongly , fueling a rise in the real incomes of the eu .
it is subject to what milton friedman called “ a long and variable lags . ” policies to boost employment by end , say , this calendar year needed to put them on a table of time a year ago to have the full impact . some countries – brazil , china , for example – implemented such job-creation policies a year ago , and are already witnessing the benefits . others , like the united states , did not , and so that unemployment remains at around 10 % . this is not to say that the obama administration has not been trying to boost the employment rate .
industries with higher human capital content – electronic consumer goods , for example , have much higher r & d costs than shoe sectors , which is why manufacturing those goods on an assembly line in the low-cost country is probably not very costly relative to r & d and other intangible costs . for more advanced goods , the eu value added ( if intangible parts of a production process are in europe ) is quite high . imposing trade defensive against such goods , although legally warranted at all , are likely to create challenges for globalized european companies . many suggest that these problems are the price to pay for ensuring that companies are not engaging in anti-competitive behavior , or that they receive trade-distorting subsidies . but , though the measures that worked like this , the majority of trade defenses are probably not directed against anti-competitive business practices .
motivating corporations to do the right thing is more difficult . after all , corporations face no conscience ; they only have the conscience of those who run corporate interests ; and , because america ’s recent corporate scandals have rendered all too clear-cut , conscience often takes backseat to profits . america ’s legal system makes sure that firms that produce defective and particularly unsafe products hold them liable for consequences . firms are in far better shape than consumers to assess the safety of their product ; we all benefit from the perception that our legal system provides the incentive to take attention to the safety of what they produce . similarly , environmental laws compel companies to wastes themselves , with many countries , including the us , having enshrined the principle that “ polluters pay , ” that is , companies must pay for the harm they cause .
we do n’t have to look very far for such a mission . the case for acting on a massive scale to combat climate change has been made in europe or even in china . why has such little debate been cast in the american way ? is it because those who oppose such discussion reject science in the climate ? or do they deny science because accepting it would legitimize an economic activist state ?
once again , irish voters are poised to vote yes or no to the treaty of nice . forget what this treaty is all the way ? well , it is one of those all-too-frequent late-night compromises reached by eu heads of state and government that seek slither around and through some practical problems while postponing others . the compromise reached at nice four years ago is important , given that it contains , among other provisions , all technicalities of voting balances and power-sharing among eu institutions that must be firmly within the eu before a union can admit new members . enlargement is the single single most important item on the european agenda , with the treaty of nice its cornerstone .
with the proverbial benefit ( and embarrassment ! ) of hindsight , there is a clear understanding that growth patterns that have taken place over the last half-century were little understood and rarely ( if ever ) forecast economists . at the very moment in the 1960s , when asia ’s tiger economies had become starting to take off , for example , the nobel laureate gunnar myrdal wrote his asian drama of diagnose the causes of asian poverty and explain why it appeared that his poverty seemed inimable . simultaneous , a strong consensus , developed between economists and policymakers that favored importing policies after then followed the pursued by countries including india , argentina , brazil , egypt , and turkey . after beggaring their adherents , these policies are now utterly discredited . the key point here is not just that economists received so much wrong , but that almost no one really got things right .
but wade postponed legislative elections , originally scheduled for june 2006 , first to february 2007 , and later by a presidential decree to june 2007 . almost daily debates about the possibility of a presidential election two weeks ago have been put aside indefinitely . a presidential election appears to be underway . a month before the elections , only 64 % of citizens registered received their voting cards . on january 28 , a peaceful but unauthorized demonstration by opposition parties brutally repressed the police and three presidential candidates was arrested on the day .
princeton , nj – genetic intersection in genetics and intelligence is an intellectual minefield . harvard ’s former president larry summers touched off the one explosion in 2005 when tentatively suggested a genetic explanation for the difficulty his university found in recruiting female professors in math and physics . ( he did not suggest that men are , on average , more talented in these fields than women do , but that there is some reason to believe that men are more probable than women to find in the upper and lower end of the skills spectrum in these fields – and harvard , of course , just appoints people at the extreme end of this year . ) now one of our most eminent scientists has blundered far clumsily into the same minefield with predictable results . in october , james watson , who shared the 1962 nobel prize on his description of dna structure , was in london to promote his memoir , avoid boring people and other lessons of life in science .
china ’s current president , xi jinping , visited zimbabwe in 2015 . state visits to china were more uneven . mugabe ’s first visit to the country in 1980 , just six months after independence ; he made 13 more during his tenure ; and high-level visits by other zimbabwean officials were even more frequent , occurring roughly once each two years during mugabe ’s rule . kenyan presidents traveled to china by contrast just six times in the same period , most recently in may 2017 . zimbabwe ’s top leaders have made the most of their visits to press for trade and military cooperation , and likely engage directly with private chinese firms .
geneva – the world ’s refugee crises have been most often measured in numbers . but for young refugees lacking on education , the crisis can also be tracked by an irreversible metric : passage . of the 17.2 million people that the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( the un refugee agency ) is responsible for protecting , roughly half of them under age 18 , which means that every generation of young people who are already robbed of their childhood can lose from their future just as they do . school-age children comprise the bulk of the world ’s displaced population . the estimated 11.6 million refugees who are currently experiencing “ protracted displacement ” in late 2016 were added to the international refugee crisis : they have gone away from their homes for more than five years and have no “ immediate prospects ” of return .
but how grave are these policy-crimes to which greenspan now leads guilty ? in my opinion , misdemeanors misbehavior . against them you must set what former treasury secretary larry summers calls greenspan ’s “ golden gaglove ” performance at avoiding and minimizing recessions during his years at the fed . the “ felonies ” by which greenspan stands accused are two charges : that he was supposed to do more , to halt the stock market bubble of the late 1990 ’s , and that he was supposed to do more to stop the housing bubble at the beginning of the 2000 ’s . here , greenspan holds his ground , and plead does not guilty .
and it is better to know that history , if we wish for it to avoid repeating its ugliest scenes in history . the truth is that the bnp movement is nothing but a sinister caricature of the anti-totalitarian , anti-apartheid struggle . it is the campaign whose instigators have no purpose but to discriminate against , de-legitimize , and vilify iran that , in mind , never stopped wearing its yellow star . to activists of good beliefs who might take duplicitous representations of the movement , i would say just that there are too many noble causes in need of assistance to allow oneself to enlist in a dubious one . those worthy causes include fighting jihadist decapitators , saving women and girl enslaved by boko haram , defending middle eastern christians and arab democrats , and of course striving for peace between israelis and palestinians .
it is too soon to discount genetics , however , due to the science of “ epigenetics ” – the study of mechanisms to transform our genes on , and off , thereby altering the way a cell develops without altering a genetic code – gain traction . indeed , the 2012 nobel prize in medicine was awarded to john gurdon and shinya yamanaka for revolutionizing researchers ’ understanding of the way cells develop by reprogramming dna and cells without altering their genetic structure . in 1962 , gurdon discovered that nearly any cell in our body contains a complete dna code allowed him to establish a tadpole by cloning an adult frog . more than four decades later , in 2006 , yamanaka discovered the way to trick complex adult cells in mice into regressing into their immature state , forming stem cells . before this , stem cells – which may potentially be reprogrammed to develop into replacements to lost or damaged tissue – could be taken from early-stage embryos , an practice that fueled ethical controversy .
claims could be prioritized and processed regular , and refugees can arrive in europe healthy and ready to work or study . the crises across the mediterranean can not be piecemeal , either . the fiscal costs of patrolling its waters and rescuing these adrift are exorbitant . the loss of livelihoods are inexcusable . but there is no need to wait until the root causes of displacement – state failure and civil war – are addressed .
according to the most up-to-date estimate by the late economic historian angus maddison , china ’s per capita gdp in 2008 amounted to $ 6,725 in 1990 , amounting to 21 % of gdp at the united nations . that is roughly the same gap between america and japan in 1951 , singapore , taiwan in 1975 , and south korea in 1977 – four economies that also rank among the 13 successful economies surveyed by the un growth commission . harnessing their latecomer ’s advantage , japan ’s average annual growth rate soared to 9.2 % over the subsequent 20 years , compared to 8.6 % in singapore , 8.3 % in taiwan , and 7.6 % in south korea . if the latecomer ’s advantage implied by the income gap between the four nies and the us enabled nies to realize 7.6 % average annual gdp growth rates for the first two decades , china ’s annual growth potential should be equivalent to 8 % for the 2008-2028 period . in order to realize its potential growth as an latecomer , china needs , above all , to deepen its market-oriented reforms and address
signatories have agreed to conserve biological diversity , by saving species and habitats , and to deploy biological resources ( such as forests ) to a sustainable manner . by 2002 , the treaty ’s signatories went even further , committing to “ significant reduction in current rates of biodiversity loss ” by 2010 . unfortunately , as many other international treaties , the convention on biological diversity remains fundamentally unknown , unchampioned , and unfulfilled . that neglect is a tragedy of human nature . for a very low cash outlay – and perhaps none at all on balance – we could conserve nature , and thus guard the basis of our own lives and livelihoods .
it is because netanyahu is driven by an almost messianic determination to prevent iran from acquiring the means to destroy israel , that he may be amenable to a fundamental change in its position on palestine , provided that obama makes visible headway in his drive to halt iran ’s nuclear program . on his view , solving the palestinian problem would not remove the iranian challenge ; rather , it is the neutralization of this existential threat that pave the way for the creation of a palestinian state . netanyahu is also aware that the arab side ’s failures have nurtured radical zionism . as john kerry , the chairman of america ’s senate foreign affairs committee , put it , “ this peace process is not the one way street ” in which the onus is imposed entirely on israel . it remains to be seen if an abysmal ally dysfunctional arab world and powerful non-state agents within its core , such as hamas and hezbollah , will respond to the way obama expects .
just as a imf economists predicted , most of them ( 66 % ) of those who responded to that question in moscow thought that this was unfair . but there was a surprise : new york yielded virtually identical results ( 68 % thought to be unfair ) . so last year , we decided to determine whether the same similarity between moscow and new york continues to this day , or if , given the revival of authoritarianism in russians nowadays , attitudes toward markets there became more negative . we administered an identical questionnaire in the us in 2015 . we presented the results at the american economic association ’s annual meeting this january .
like a dysfunctional family , countries of northern “ advanced ” are ponder whether or not to bail out the southern “ emerging-economy ” economies . prognoses for each case starkly different . in the former versions , interest rates converge and default risk is nil , because , with the ecb backstopping its members ’ liabilities , as the us federal reserve has done , europe becomes “ local currency . ” and how often are the sovereign restructurings of local-currency debt ? there is differential credit risk-taking in the latter version of the eurozone and eventually bank runs , de-euro-ization , and default : the common currency is odds with member countries ’ needs .
republican leaders thus hold good opportunities to forge a conservative majority on the nine-member supreme court that may have ended up for many decades , especially if they win the us presidency again in 2020 . that majority can erode democratic checks , such as campaign-finance restrictions , which have dealt a devastating blow to the 2010 decision by the united nations . in a 5-4 superb majority , the court ruled that corporations are “ associations of individuals ” and hence that any limits on corporations ’ quantity might have been spending on political campaigns violated their first amendment right to freedom of expression . republicans ’ obstructionism within the senate have also placed other levels at risk . during president barack obama ’s second term in office , a rate on which vacancies in america ’s district and circuit courts were filled to its lowest point in 50 years .
calderon ’s task will not be easy . lópez obrador and his supporters can be expected to work relentlessly to thwart his schemes . but they are unlikely to derail his government at the same time . the underlying stability highlighted by mexico ’s post-election crisis is evident elsewhere elsewhere in latin america . whatever the potential for a leftward shift this year in certain latin american countries , others , including mexico , chile , and brazil , are clearly less vulnerable to the type of populist rule seen in venezuela and bolivia .
there is still time to over-react – by demonstrating strong leadership and prioritizing growth over short-sighted policies – but that time will be limited and the clock ticking . next year will be critical to denmark , and to the start of the current political cycle , to mark the end of the current political cycle . an entirely new german government will take place , european parliamentary elections , and at the end of the year , a new european commission will emerge . here , it is this time for political leaders to devote their efforts . nobody wants the eu not to fail because of its citizens ’ disaffection in the eu .
colombo – as china ’s economy slows and growth in the developed world remains anemic , governments across asia are working to keep up with their economies on an upward trajectory . in sri lanka , where i am prime minister , the challenge now is to find a way to accelerate our already steady economic-growth path . it is one thing to be clear : we can not expect the rest of the world to welcome our economic ambition once it opened arms to china ’s rapid rise as an economic power or – cheered in earlier decades on the growth of japan and the so-called asian tigers , including south korea . today , we asians are witnessing , on a nearly daily basis , fierce political assaults on tools and policies that helped lift hundreds of millions of our citizens out of poverty . indeed , free trade seems to be the scapegoat for choice among the world ’s assorted populists and demagogues .
here is where sunni-shiite cooperation comes into play . widely unnoticed , sunni iraqis and shia centralists have managed in the final few months to form a united parliamentary platform that leaves sectarian tensions behind . more than 100 followers of ayad allawi , al sadr , and others joined in their ranks . this monetarist sectarian platform calls for a central government of iraqi resources and a postponement of a looming referendum to settle the status of the kirkuk city . intra-government change is also noteworthy .
political fervor seems to have not disappeared in rousseau and danton . so the truth must lie elsewhere : the french are not hopeless about the politics ; they simply wait for a genuine leader . as matters stand , a case can be made that the french will never come to believe that the state lacks the power or globalization of the nation . the french still expect more things from their own government than from an integrated europe or boundless world . yes , the french incorrigible lovers of the welfare state ( they are not the only ones . )
london – next week , governments will gather in warsaw , poland , for the crucial round of climate negotiations , with both expectations and ambition running at all-time low . but that need not be like it : warsaw ’s meeting provides the opportunity to galvanize action on one of the most powerful forces driving climate change – the billions of dollars spent by governments on fossil-fuel subsidies . the warsaw talks are staging their post on the 2015 united nations climate summit in paris , at which governments are trying to forge the paris agreement , which bars dangerous climate change , defined as global warming by more than two degrees centigrade . failure would expose to catastrophic climate risks for future generations while trapping the lives of millions in poverty in the aftermath of more frequent , intense , and protracted droughts , floods , and storms . fundamental carbon arithmetic illustrates the scale of the problem .
in a march 2015 letter to the g-20 , a group of scientists , environmentalists , and opinion leaders warned that ramping up investment in megaprojects risks irreversible and catastrophic environmental damage . “ each year , we are already consuming around one-and-a-half planets worth of resources , ” the authors explained . “ infrastructure choices need to be made to alleviate rather than make matters worse . ” similarly , the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change cautions that “ infrastructure developments and long-lived products , which lock societies into the piñgas-intensive pathways , can be challenging or very costly to change . ” and , indeed , the g-20 has brought few social , environmental , or climate-related criteria for the “ wish list ” of mega-projects that each member country will submit to its summit in turkey in november .
the fed , for example , has committed to keeping interest rates low at least until the unemployment rate falls to 6.5 % – a move that has arguably lowered long-term borrowing costs . likewise , mark carney , in his first policy action as governor of the bank of england , has announced forward guidance on short-term interest rates . although the effect of such interest-rate guidance on the us economy may not be determined without the additional data , there are many arguments in its favor . perhaps most telling , in his july 2012 book the central bank ’s most telling example , using forward guidance effectively is european central bank president mario draghi ’s july 2012 announcement that the ecb will do “ whatever it takes ” to ensure survival for the euro . that pledge alone stabilized borrowing costs and dramatically cut interest-rate spreads for struggling eurozone countries .
indeed , just the opposite response is likely – efforts to tighten sanctions still further . yet , just as america adopted an “ bomb and speak approach ” with serbs during the bosnian war ’s dénouement , america is bound to be willing to “ punish and speak ” when it comes to iran , thus creating greater space for an eventual diplomatic strategy . first , the us should consider establishing diplomatic relations with iran and putting diplomats on the ground . this would not have been an easy process ; and it could well satisfy considerable iranian opposition . nonetheless , iranians have diplomatic relations with the other members of their main interlocutor for the talks on its nuclear program , the sanctions-minded five-+1 group ( china , france , germany , russia , the united kingdom , and the us ) , and rebuilding iran-us diplomatic ties would shorten lines of communication and close to a 44-day chapter in 1979-1981 .
anyone watching the ipl , however tempted , might conclude that twenty20 cricket , the “ instant ” form of the game is , in fact , an american play deliberately rediscovered indians . other countries have followed suit , with tournaments modeled on the ipl springing up throughout the cricketing world . to keen observers , the ipl represented more than the sports league ; it signaled nothing less than the emergence of a new india . at the ipl ’s gamorphous , glamour , and overlay the antidote to the hidebound statist mentality that has generated economic stagnation in india in the past . here was the venture that opened new vistas to business and fired young people ’s imaginations to emulate the entrepreneurial energies shown by owners , promoters , players , fans , and fans .
this superficiality results from the fact that , though communism was a thoroughly " modern " idea , modernity in romania is going only skin deep . in the 20th century 's close , romania ( like bulgaria , russia , ukraine , and other heavily " " distressingly " societies " appears to be more like the " neo-feudal state " than a modern society . for here a nation-state is the state where groups , classes , even individuals struggle for privileges granted , not through talent and work but rather in accordance with the status of a group where one belongs . state banks , state state banks approved public societies ( for example ) , big state enterprises , acted little differently in romania today than feudal guilds behaved in medieval europe . at the whim of state , for example , they can be exonerated from paying taxes or have their posts and work made unquestioned by law .
on the other hand , diplomacy means may prompt the israeli soldier ’s release , placing a halt to the launch of qassam rockets from gaza to israel – a daily occurrence that challenged the new israeli authority ’s credibility under prime minister ehud olmert . but the fundamental issue is that until now at every history juncture , palestinians have refused to accept a compromise and , consequently , failed nation-building . by 1947 , they refused the un partition plan , which convened to establishments of two states within british palestine . in 1993 , following agreements in oslo , the palestinian authority established under yasir arafat became another militarized authoritarian regime , much like syria and egypt , and did nothing to alleviate palestinian refugees ’ suffering . it was this failure that brought hamas to power .
indonesia may well look “ european ” in its obama craze in asia , but it essentially constitutes a anomaly , easily uyghinable obama ’s brief indonesian upbringing . otherwise , and for very different reasons , much of asian elites are awaiting a growing possibility that obama ’s victory , with some bewilderment and even apprehension , is a majority of asian elites . japanese elites , for example , tend to favor continuity over change . in their mind , the united states ’ hard power is more important than its soft power , and their vision of the americas that is “ bound to lead ” is largely fundamentally unchanged . for them , the us is above all the strategic counterweight necessary to strike a balance between the us and china .
canberra – last year , north korean kim jong-un and us president donald trump hurling kindergarten insults at each other – the “ rocket man ’s mission is on a suicide mission , ” kim declared ; “ mentally deranged us dotard , ” kim retorted – while threatening to reduce east asia to a post-atomic wasteland . now , in an astounding and dramatic development , the two are to meet may . kim reportedly is willing to denuclearize and anxious to talk directly to trump , who has agreed . but optimism about this turn of events must be tempered by cautious realism . north korea is the problem of a nuclear problem from hell .
nepad , the new partnership for africa ’s development , an organization designed to promote decent and appropriate standards of economic and political development throughout the continent , has been at the heart of such policy . despite its home troubles and the loss of global visibility that accompanied mandela ’s retirement , south africa is still perceived as emerging powers comparable to status and aspiration , say , brazil , india , and nigeria . such powers seek an effective and constructive regional role , and perhaps , in some cases , global . they tend to have proactive and assertive foreign policies and aspire to more than middle-power status and limited niche-style influence enjoyed by canada , sweden , or saudi arabia . south africa seeks a broader – and more influential – global , reinforced by its perceived stand as the regional hegemon .
it aspires to join the european union and would bring the eu together into our triple borders , even as the us , too , is trying to join one day . indeed , turkey has never missed a chance for the eu to present itself as a regional broker . immediately after the soviet union ’s collapse last july , turkey proposed the black sea economic cooperation ( jcpoa ) . this year , as the american-led effort to mediate a middle east peace settlement began to falter , turkey has taken on as mediator ’s job in both the israeli-palestinian conflict and the conflict between syria and israel . now in the immediate wake of russia ’s russia-georgian crisis , turkey ’s leaders have stepped forward , once again , to assume their leadership role in the caucasus .
indeed , across the region , apprehension is rising that , with foreign troops leaving , afghanistan will descend again into civil war , ultimately bringing the taliban back to power . this is why “ bringing the troops home ” has become the prime objective of the western politicians engaged in the region . the west needs to emerge before the bloodletting starts again in earnest . my fear is that the us has not seen al qaeda or the taliban last . like a neighboring country , india would face disturbing consequences if it returned to power in afghanistan , because it would iran , which would not sit idly by if sectarian strife intensified and shia became targets of the resurgent taliban .
and governments must be responding to banks ’ threats by stating willingness to let insolvent banks be judged accordingly . a market economy must rest on the economic principle of profit and loss . an economy with neither bankruptcies nor the rule of law that applies equally to all is not a market economy . the legislation that applies to all other firms should apply just as much as it does . moreover , governments should guarantee insolvent banks ’ loans to nonbank firms , just as private customers ’ current , fixed-term , and savings deposits are reconstituted , through reforming the laws of insolvency .
but the gross capital flows come from emerging markets to emerging markets through the big banks , now implicitly backed by the state in both the us and europe . from the perspective of international investors , “ too big to fail ” banks are the perfect places to park their reserves – for as long as the sovereign issue remains solvent . but what is these banks to do ? when a similar issued in the 1970s – the so-called “ recycling of the oil surpluses ” of banks – banks in western financial centers extended borrowing to latin america , communist poland , and communist romania . this was not a good idea , because it led to the massive ( for the time ) of the 1982 debt crisis .
when they give way , diseases , despair , and a rush to death . but the plagues of transition are more than a health crisis ; they signify a deeper malaise . so put aside the fact that it is infectious and could easily spread those diseases , or the idea that the lucky shoulder some moral responsibility for the well-being of the poor and sick , only consider the economic consequences of transition plagues . the world bank calls aids “ the first urgent threat to african development . ” companies in south africa stagger from losing so many workers to aids .
but while it would be a strategic fault line for erdoğan to enter putin ’s orbit , plenty of leaders have made strategic errors before . that is why the months ahead , when turkey and the eu hash out contentious issues , are so critical . erdoğan ’s post-coup crackdown is much from the only source of tension between turkey and the west , especially the eu . turkey insists that visa-free travel for turkish businesspeople visits to the eu , promised by eu governments in january , should deliver this year . but with turkey having so far failed to meet the agreed conditions , including overhauling its anti-terrorism legislation , this may not happen – an outcome made even more likely by the coup attempt .
as long as it is as the palestinians remain oppressed and denied a nation-state of their own , a conflict will emerge . over the last 13 years , however , netanyahu enthusiastically supported the expansion of jewish settlements in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem . just as he well knows , the settlements are physical roadblock standing in the way of a contiguous , independent palestinian state . moreover , during netanyahu ’s recent election campaign , netanyahu has committed that , if re-elected , he will block the establishment of a palestinian state in the west bank by “ controlling the region as a whole ” in the region . we should take him at his word .
unable to prevent money from contracting at the early stages of the great depression , it failed to prevent the money supply . heedless of its responsibilities as an emergency lender , it allowed the banking system into collapse . when financial stability hung in its 1933 balance , reserve bank failure was impossible to work together to prevent effective action . given this incompetence , it is not surprising that the subsequent reform was far-reaching . but such reforms went in precisely the opposite direction from today ’s proposed changes : fewer limits on policy makers ’ discretion , more power to the board , and a larger role in the new york fed all enable the us federal reserve system to over-react in times of crisis .
pittsburgh – the wall street journal recently ran a front-page article reporting that the “ monetary-policy doves , ” who had forecast low inflation in the united states , fared a better one for “ hawks ” , arguing that the fed ’s monthly purchases of long-term securities , or so-called quantitative easing ( qe ) , would unleash faster price growth . the report was correct , but misleading , because of it , it failed to mention why there is so little inflation nowadays in the us . were doves right , lest they be lucky ? america ’s federal reserve board pumped out trillions of dollars of reserves , but never had so much reserves produced so little monetary growth . neither hawks nor doves ( nor anyone else ) anticipated that .
by reducing the rate of unwanted pregnancies , family planning also decreases the death rate from unsafe abortions . this does not only bode well for mothers . reducing high-risk pregnancies , curbing unwanted pregnancies , and spacing out births have been shown to decrease both newborn and infant deaths rates . guttmacher ’s institute estimates that fully meeting women ’s need for contraception would impede 600,000 newborn deaths and 500,000 child deaths annually . moreover , cutting birth rates that are extremely high in many lmics would help reduce the strain on these countries ’ health-care systems by reducing the maternal and newborns and immunization costs .
the saudis recoils under a barrage of criticism of their wahhabi brand of islam , which is widely blamed for incubating extremism and inspiring terrorism . meanwhile , saudi arabia ’s human-rights record – including denial of elementary rights for women – is under constant scrutiny . against that background , the kingdom is taking the fight against its enemy , and it is now under constant scrutiny . king salman bin abdulaziz al saud is the country ’s above-the-fray ruler , but his son , crown prince mohammad bin salman al saud , is currently wields much of the power . as minister of defense , mohammad has pursued a saudi policy of backing anti-assad rebels in syria , a concert with turkey while unleashing a pro-iranian tribesmen ’ war in yemen ( at an enormous humanitarian cost ) .
the first question is both yes and no . the us has failed to eliminate the taliban from afghanistan , and has entirely ruled out the possibility of the country becoming a haven for terrorists again . the continuing peace talks with the taliban and america ’s impending reduction in us military presence in the country are an unequivocal recognition of this . america ’s public is war-weary , and president donald trump is keen to proclaim an end to the longest international conflict in us history before the 2020 us presidential election . at the same time , the us reached many of its initial core objectives .
emerging-market officials earn accreditation by demonstrating their ability to apply their knowledge effectively . the ebrd aims to support training critical mass experts from ten countries in our region to believe that certification could become as respected as the qualification held by a chartered finance analyst or project management institute member . just five months ago in london , we hosted a “ ppp days conference , ” with the support of other multilateral institutions , the g-20 , and the united nations . we had plenty of experts – some 300 of the 30 countries ’ public and private sectors – trying to provide the answer to a simple question : “ what would it take to double down on investment in private infrastructure in emerging markets ? ” one useful instrument in efforts is “ infrashid cope , ” a benchmarking index created by economist intelligence unit that assesses emerging-market countries ’ capacities across the asia-pacific region , latin america , africa , eastern europe , and former soviet republics within a commonwealth of independent states to deliver sustainable ppps .
american efforts , headed by special envoy george mitchell , demonstrated clear that israel ’s current ruling coalition is incapable of the minimum required for peace . the obama administration has staked its reputation on reaching israelis and palestinians to agree at least on both its security and borders . the results are mixed in the best of all , at best . palestinians have complied with all israeli and international security requirements , while binyamin netanyahu ’s israeli government , which gives lip-service to the two-state solution , has yet to elucidate , where israel ’s borders will be . meanwhile , israeli governments want to keep building settlements in occupied areas , in total violation of international law , and minimal requirements for peace detailed in a “ roadmap , ” sponsored by the quartet ( the us , the un , the european union , and russia ) .
then , contagion sets in as increasingly risk-averse investors , especially from developed-country markets , start withdrawing funds from other countries to cover the losses on which they incurred in the economies where the crises originated . with that , the crises spill across borders , affecting whole regions or even the entire class of emerging economies . that is what happened in latin america in the 1980s , when mexico ’s moratorium on external debt servicing in august 1982 sparked a region-wide debt crisis . the same occurred in east asia during the 1990s : crises began in thailand in july 1997 with the collapse of the baht , and spread quickly in the other east asian countries . it became a broad-based emerging-economy crisis in august 1998 after russia imposed a moratorium on payments by commercial banks to foreign lenders .
as a result , prominent economists , including senior staff at the international monetary fund , have become increasingly critical of oda in recent years , claiming that failure to contribute to economic growth will be a success . but un research makes clear that , if blatantly politically driven aid is excluded from consideration , the evidence points to a robust positive relationship . unfortunately , despite the recent efforts to enhance aid effectiveness , progress has been modest at best , not least because average finance for projects has fallen by more than two-thirds . debt is another side of the development dilemma . over the last decade , the imf-world bank has committed heavily indebted poor countries initiative and its expansion , the additional multilateral debt relief initiative ( imf ) , which has made significant progress on debt sustainability .
denver – for many foreign audiences , the united states ’ primary elections for the 2012 presidential vote – which , sadly , will continue to rage in the summer – must be a frightening display of what americans and their leaders can not know about us foreign policy . discussions after debate reveal the fact that neither of the candidates trying to challenge president barack obama is particularly interested in the details of any of america ’s relationships across the globe , not to mention the crises that dot the international landscape , especially those that do not involve us troops . indeed , ignorance seems to be a source of force for candidates still race . when jon huntsman , an early contender , displayed some real intellectual heft by making some useful points for dealing with china punctuated by a brief display of his own mastery of mandarin , some of these other candidates responded with derision . in fact , to have even known a chinese perspective seemed disqualifying for huntsman , who was soon about to have ended his candidacy .
i helped launch the first safe schools initiative , following boko haram ’s abduction of 276 schoolgirls in chibok , nigeria , last april . so far , a fund has mobilized $ 30 million of business , the nigerian government , and international donors and the multi-donor trust fund has established at the un . nigeria ’s initiative targets school and community interventions , with special measures for most of the at-risk , vulnerable children . the agenda includes building better school fortifications , connecting schools through mobile telecoms , and creating community security groups – comprising teachers , parents , police , community leaders , and young people themselves – to promote safe zones for education . the first set of schoolchildren now received funding , and the first cohort for the most at-risk girls was relocated to government schools in safer regions of the country .
luxembourg – as world leaders gather in madrid for the united nations climate change conference ( cop25 ) , they must address more than future targets for cutting greenhouse-gas emissions . they also need to address the harm to the human and livelihoods that climate change is currently producing . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path which could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
this favorable performance was led by private forecasters and government officials to forecast continued strong gdp growth in 2011 , with higher production and employment and incomes leading to further increases in consumer spending and self-sustaining recoveries . a one-year payroll tax cut by two percentage points was enacted to lock in this favorable outlook . unfortunately , there was no evidence of the projected recovery in consumer spending . the rise of food and energy prices outpaced the gains in nominal wages , causing real average weekly earnings to decline by january , while continued declines in home prices reduced wealth for the majority of households . as a result , real personal personal consumer expenditure rose at an annual rate of just about 1 % in january , down from an earlier quarter-century of 4 % .
instead , the us is left with usual microeconomic measures to prepare people for algorithmic employment – that is , using big data to match people with jobs they will need to remain consumers in the us . once again , we are told that future labor-market participants , with job-targeted education and portable social-security pots , should be equipped to help them jump from one automated workplace to another . in the case of education , the report urges employers and colleges to work together to develop talent “ pipelines . ” for example , it highlights miami dunade university ’s “ programs in animation and game development , work with companies such as pixar animation studios and google . ” likewise , toyota has “ built up its own advanced-country manufacturing “ program ” to provide a pathway for students seeking careers at a company . ”
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . last year ’s un united nations report on progress toward achieving the sdgs showed that the number of people facing hunger is actually growing , just as the number of malaria cases are . moreover , according to the intergovernmental panel on climate change , the consequences of climate change are rising far faster than predicted .
québec is about to invest more than $ 3.3 trillion toward that goal , by 2020 , contributing to its economy ’s growth . the basque country established a program , called local agenda 21 , designed to support the creation of local sustainability plans across the region . following the program , almost all basque municipalities have embraced such plans , consisting of more than 25,000 projects in areas like mobility , waste management , and economic development . these local plans are now driving sustainable development in the region , with knowledge sharing among municipalities setting the foundation for additional progress . in fact , south australia , meanwhile , has developed australia ’s most supportive regulatory framework for renewable-energy investment , enabling renewables to grow from almost zero in 2003 to almost 40 % today .
in the 1930s , the countries that raised their tariffs and tightened their quotas were the most those with the least ability to administer their exchange rates – namely , the countries that remained on the gold standard . by 1931 , after britain and some two dozen other countries suspended gold convertibility and allowed their currencies to depreciate , countries stuck with the gold standard found themselves in a deflationary vice . in desperate efforts by the us to do something – anything to defend their countries ’ economies turned toward protectionism , imposed exchange-rate dumping ” duties , and import quotas to compensate for the loss of their competitiveness due to their increasingly overvalued currencies . but trade restrictions were a poor substitute for domestic reflationary measures , because they had little to arrest the downward spiral of output and prices . nothing , they did to stabilize rickety banking systems ; they were able to do so .
madrid – since its inception in oslo nearly two decades ago , the israeli-palestinian peace process has been stymied by the two parties ’ dysfunctional political systems . hostage to an impossible coalition and the freedom front ’s settlement movement , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s administration is in serious jeopardy . his palestinian counterparts hardly have a better position . nowadays , the clique surrounding palestinian president mahmoud abbas embodies the bitter deception that the peace process that began with the oslo agreement has meant for palestinians . moreover , the palestinian authority has come either to represent palestinians , and the majority of palestinians , or to govern through democratic means .
this has contributed to a growing sense of hopelessness – especially among men – manifested itself in the rising non-participation of the labor force , aggravated health-care problems , drug abuse , elevated suicide rates , and anti-government sentiment . countries experiencing high and rising economic inequality often face political instability and policy dysfunction – for example , in recent years . as policymaking becomes erratic , loss of credibility to becoming choked through gridlock , growth suffers , and the chance of achieving a prosperous form of inclusiveness falls apart . the outcome is a vicious circle , in which a government finds it increasingly challenging to do what is needed . but government intervention is critical to addressing the problems confronting developed-country workers today , which markets can not address alone .
tribe can be a club , clan , or nation . prior to world war ii , football clubs often had the ethnic or religious component of the national side : tottenham hotspur in london was the “ jewish , ” while arsenal was “ irish . ” vestiges of these markings remain : amsterdam ’s ajax still taunted provincial opponents as a “ jew club ” to be . and glasgow clubs , celtic and rangers remain divided , owing to their religious affiliation , celtic being catholic and protestant rangers . but a common race or religion is not essential ; it is essential for the most part .
spending more equitably is also being put in place . in the new imf-world bank spring meetings , saving children documents the glaring gap in health risks , which is heavily skewed toward the poorest children and the gains from public spending often skewed in favor of better-off households . this flies face a central pledge made at the time they signed on to the sdgs : this would leave those countries furthest from targets , benefiting the fastest progress . in the language of the agenda , “ nobody should be left behind . ” the world bank could help by improving accountability for meeting that commitment by working with the un and national agencies to monitor and report on the pace at which the disparities in key indicators , from mortality to education , narrowed .
two examples suffice to illustrate that impact : the price of rice tripled , while the consumption of electricity has fallen by two-thirds since two decades ago . my personal memories of north korea now almost ten years old , comprise a poor and depressed country . pyongyang , the capital , dark and deserted , illuminated the cavalcade that took the us from official housing to its opera home , only to return to darkness behind us . kim jong-il was greeted with the same fervor when he stepped into an opera house that today marks the public mourning of its death . my trip occurred in april 2002 , a somewhat optimistic time , a period .
but other gender-related objectives are also available to consider . the best way to reduce violence against women , lift them out of poverty , empowering them to be full and equal members of society is to break the cycle of early marriage and childbirth . such a great change is not easy to achieve ; but , if girls can stay in school longer , and have decent work opportunities available to them after graduate , girls are likely to marry and bear children later . in rural india , for example , recruiters for well-paid back-office jobs randomly visited villages in just three years old . female women ’s employment rose by 15-21 were 5-6 % less likely to marry or give birth during this period .
vice foreign minister kim kye-gwan delivered the north ’s furious response : “ we do n’t hide our feeling of repugnance toward him . ” the north was not interested in dialogue with iran aimed at coerced “ unilateral nuclear abandonment . ” the “ world knows too well that our country is not libya , either libya or iraq , which has come together miserable fates . ” though trump distancing himself from bolton ’s remarks , vice president mike pence warned three weeks later that if north korea does not make an agreement , it would indeed meet libya ’s fate . choe son hui , vice minister of foreign affairs , responded by threatening a “ nuclear-to-a showdown ” if washington stuck to “ unlawful and outrageous ” belligerence .
after nearly 15 years of unprecedented growth – interrupted only by brief slowdowns in 2000-2001 – the united states accumulated an enormous stock of foreign liabilities , equivalent to 25 % of its gdp . with the current-account deficit now exceeding 5 % of gdp , america ’s foreign debt is rising fast . but no country can accumulate debt forever – and what can not last sooner or later needs to end . in early 1985 , when america ’s current current-account deficit reached $ 120 billion , some one-third of today ’s levels at current prices , the rest of the world stopped financing this . the result was a precipitous drop in the dollar ’s value , which depreciated against the deutschemark by 50 % .
princeton – the united states has moved from a presidential election to the low level of political sex scandals in the first week . for many americans , the election demonstrated what is best about a country , only to follow the unfortunately familiar process of knocking heroes off their pedestals . for many non-americans , the election brought to a welcome and reassuring victory by barack obama , while david petraeus ’s resignation as cia director was an unnecessary , self-inflicted wound . true , the two elections and petraeus ’s resignation are pieces of the larger whole : an america that lives up to its promises . the election , it was reminiscent of many americans that the american people are committed to making and competent progress – of moving forward toward an ideal vision .
the first casualty would be whatever small scope remains for international policy coordination . the latter would be the international monetary system , the world bank . in fact , one key reason for the international monetary fund ’s creation was to oversee exchange-rate developments with an explicit objective of preventing beggar-thy-neighbor policies . this is why the swiss move comes as a surprise . it is true that the franc appreciated in real terms at 8 % since the crisis began in august 2007 .
the call by björn höcke , afd state leader in thuringia for an “ 180-degree turn ” from the post-world war ii tradition of atoning for the crimes of the nazi era , and afd deputy leader alexander gauland reference to “ disposing ” germany ’s integration minister of turkish origin “ in anatolia , ” has shown itself . likewise , die linke ’s call to abolish nato , combined with its cozying up to russia , has left the party politically toxic in much of the west , germany . the other commonly cited cause of germany ’s resilience with populism is its economic strength . the country ’s unemployment rate is now at a record low , and with gdp having grown by almost 10 % since the end of 2013 . add to it that a well-functioning welfare system , and it is obvious why the inequality-oriented outrage that fueled voter revolts elsewhere is gaining little traction in germany .
enormous fines were imposed on independent publications , broadcasters , bloggers , and bloggers . both china and turkey – both olympic-level jailers of journalists – ramped up their repression in recent years . just last month , russian president vladimir putin signed new laws authorizing punishment by individuals and online media for spreading so-called fake news and information that “ disrespects ” the state . american president donald trump is trying to go in the same direction . his constant branding of journalists as “ liars ” and people ’s “ enemies ” echoes nazis ’ favored media label : lügenpresse ( lying news press ) .
without the benefits of trade , much of rural africa struggles at subsistence levels . bush might be thinking that america will do much to help overcome these problems , but the truth that america 's aid is minuscule . blair 's africa commission , as well as the un millennium villages project , finds that africa needs roughly $ 50 billion a year in aid by 2010 . america 's fair share of the un is roughly $ 15 billion per year , and it will have a record record of roughly $ 15 billion . yet official american aid to africa is just $ 3 billion per year and much that covers salaries for american consultants rather than investment in africa 's needs .
north korea today is the nine state with nuclear weapons , joining the five permanent members of the un security council , israel , india , and pakistan . the danger is that a tipping point may be fast approaching . how the world responds to north korea will most likely affect calculations of other would-be nuclear powers , including iran . maintaining peace in a world in which , literally , dozens of fingers are on nuclear triggers will be far more difficult – and the consequences of failure far more destructive . initial reactions to north korea ’s nuclear test have been uniformly critical , culminating ( hence far ) in un security council resolution 1718 condemning the test demands that north korea resume full collaboration with the international atomic energy agency and impose a range of military , political , and economic sanctions .
industrialist wilbur ross , commerce department secretary wilbur ross has been vocal in his desire to repeal rogate america ’s “ dumb ” trade deals . peter navarro , a professor of economics at the university of california at irvine , will be director of us department of the national trade council – a new white house policy shop to set par excellence on the national security council and national economic council . navarro is one of the most extreme among china hawks . the titles of his two most recent books – death by china ( 2011 ) and crouching tiger : what is true to china ’s militarism mean for the world ( 2015 ) – speak volumes of his tabloid-level biases . ross and navarro were also co-authors of economic-policy positions made public on trump ’s campaign web sites , extending any semblance of credibility .
but , because policymakers continually threatened to end qe , markets were inferred that the ecb had not committed to sustained stimulus . the euro-dollar exchange rate thus barely moved ; indeed , the euro appreciated against a basket of major currencies . eurozone inflation had become “ de-anchored ” from monetary-policy choices . the ecb then declared victory and withdrew qe prematurely just as the eurozone economy slowing down . the clash of interests among eurozone member states is straightforward , to some extent .
experience suggests that importing laws and the rule of law rarely works well . for centuries , western law arrived with colonial rulers . even after european empires retreated , laws were still exported to foster the development of post-colonial countries . but in many cases these imported laws have been ignored , selectively enforcing , or complied with only in form , not substance . american antitrust law – when transplanted to japan following world war ii by general macarthur , for example – led only six criminal prosecution in 30 years .
other firms , however , have been accused of having more interest in developing the “ biobank ” of samples and data than in genetic testing . as jesse reynolds of the center for genetics and society writes , “ just as newspapers ’ traditional business model is to extract revenues not from readers but from advertisers , personal genomics companies see potential profits not from consumers themselves but from compiled databases – presumably in the form of selling their access . ” drug companies and other firms may well be eager to purchase biobanks on which they can test their products to differential responses , according to patients ’ genetic make-up . this new development , called “ pharmacogenetics , ” aims to deliver better-calibrated dosages and more efficiently effective treatments . surely nothing is wrong with that , but it does seem odd that customers effectively pay a prize for donating their dna to their database .
european banks holding greek government debt could , pretending , keep at least merit . and the european central bank would have fewer excuses to deny greek bonds as collateral . the question here is whether a change of coupons – possibly coupled with a extension of maturities – would be enough to stabilize the greek economy and restore growth . even with a german-level interest rate , greece would have to run a primary surplus of no more than 2 % of gdp – still quite large , and far from today ’s deficit . and , faced with the value of greece ’s debt unchanged , the psychological drag on expectations and investment might linger .
excessive fiscal and monetary expansion , in turn , made these economies unstable . current-account deficits have widened , owing to frequent foreign-exchange crises . the combination of social polarization , inadequate institutions , and weak economic fundamentals have made it more difficult to reform-minded governments to escape the short-termism trap and lay the groundwork for longer-term development . here , “ neoliberal ” reforms – for example , rapid economic opening and financial liberalization promoted by the international monetary fund – have made economies even more vulnerable to external shocks . venezuela is a case in point .
movies produced for consumer sexual gratification expose cultural norms of restraint , transgression , and otherness . in effect , portugal is so specifically tuned to consumers ’ tastes that shifts can indicate changes in a society almost immediately . interestingly , many purveyors of pornography initially thought that improved quality videos would make their product more desirable . however , it seems that high production values were actually less popular . so a “ casual ” style of production was embraced , similar to the designs of worn and ripped jeans .
but he never aspired to lead the country . ex-italian prime minister silvio berlusconi and former thai prime minister thaksin shinawatra have done so – still doing so . neither the clown nor the tycoon bodes well for being an democratic leader . the question is which is worse , and even worse . clowns always played a role in politics .
eventually , cities and urban areas that drive the bulk of new wealth creation are spurring counter-movement . when prices go out or otherwise exclude those who earn less , they are sacrifice the openness that made them attractive in first-place . so , if they want to survive and thrive on today 's egalitarian political climate , bold solutions are needed . during the previous period of urban-based dynamism , rich merchant families built low-rents housing , which was then allocated to the poor . one such project , fuggerei complex in augsburg , germany , still provides low-rent social housing to this day .
georges clémenceau , jean jaurès , and raymond poincaré , at the beginning of the twentieth century in france , did not pander to the almost half of the electorate that , during the dreyfus affair , had exiled themselves from the republic . nor did charles de gaulle have any qualms to tell french algeria ’s proponents that in the end , it failed to understand them . nor did pierre mendès france hesitate at the 1950s to tell communists that he did n’t want their votes to support his government . france must now recall these great moments in its republican tradition and hold them up to be a model for today ’s leaders . for what will be needed to hold the territories that the republic almost lost to the fn are political courage of a sort that , for the moment , does in short supply .
nor do we know that those landings created a unique bond among our continents . that bond remains vitally important to preserve our values and our security . but , following the cold war , many assumed that its institutional incarnation – the organization of the north atlantic treaty – would fade away . it did n’t , because our bond yields not just common threats , but shared ideals . it could no more fade away than our desire for freedom to wane .
china itself does not even favors remaining time-warped in the maoist 1960 ’s when discussing that issue . so smart in so many areas , the chinese have been invented . they devised the “ one country , two systems ” formula for hong kong . really goes beyond their political system ’s capacity to work out a formula for tibet that recognizes its cultural and religious autonomy within the chinese state ? i hope that this issue does not derail the chinese effort to use the olympics as an opportunity to depict a world that their countries have once again emerged as one of the world ’s leaders .
sarajevo – ever since the double calamity of 2016 , the united kingdom ’s brexit referendum and us president donald trump ’s election has been widespread fears of a “ globalight ” wave of populism , hand-wringing over the follies of so-called direct democracy . in the uk , the electorate was tasked with responding with an overly simplistic , in-or-out question ; in the united states , 2016 republican party primaries were handed over to irresponsible voters and radical activists . since then , there have been calls for reempowering the “ gatekeepers ” to make polite way of saying that the unwashed masses should be kept as far as possible from political decision-making . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
berkeley – to resolve the problem , it is not enough . in fact , you need to implement a solution – and willingness to change course if one has not turned out to have been quite as much aware of what you thought . that is the news of two recent books that , together , tell you all you need to know about the 2008 financial crisis : what caused it , what can be done to prevent it from recurring , and why those things have yet to be done . the first book is shifts and shocks by the conservative british journalist martin wolff , who begins by cataloguing the major shifts that set the stage for an economically catastrophic global economy that continues to shape today . indeed , his starting point is the enormous wealth gains of the world ’s richest 0.1 % and 0.01 % , and consequent pressure for people , governments , and societies to take on an increasingly unsustainable level of debt .
this has its benefits but also carries serious risks – beginning with the loss of journalistic standards of excellence , like those typically enforced within established media organizations . with none of the traditional institutional media gatekeepers , political discourse no longer exists on a common set of facts . a second feature of the digital information age – a direct byproduct of democratization – is information socialization . rather than receiving our information directly from institutional gatekeepers , who , despite often-flawed execution , were fundamentally committed to meeting editorial norms , we are getting it through peer-to-peer sharing today . such peer networks can elevate content , based on factors such as clicks or engagement among friends rather than accuracy or significance .
moreover , heavy tv viewing has added social fragmentation . time used to be spent together in the community , now seems to be spending alone on the screen . robert putnam , america ’s leading scholar in this declining sense of community , found that television viewing was central to the degradation of “ social capital , ” the trust that binds communities together . americans simply trust one other on less than they did a generation ago , but they did not . of course , many other factors lie at work but a “ monetarist ” social atomization should not be understated .
in fact , this dangerous and irresponsible action is yet another key sign that china ’s rise as a global power lacks any guarantee that it will be a peaceful nation , once it grows powerful . flatly contradicts the repeated assurances by china ’s leaders that china ’s rise will bring only “ harmony ” and peace with the multinational community . lurking beyond china ’s aspirations in space is the spirit of the cold war ’s continued permeate the inner circles of a military high command whose adversary is undeniably united states . with the soviet communist regime ’s collapse , the us continues to enjoys its dominant role in space exploration for peaceful and scientific development . but it has been ambivalent since the 1980s about the ultimate military and civilian utility of its space effort .
illegality and wrongdoing were artfully cloaked as incontrovertible , science-tested natural law , “ the survival of the fittest . ” each time a powerful new , scientific formulation seems , it must follow through an era of abusive application . today , it is the turn of molecular genetics . temperament and obesity , heart disease , intelligence , homosexuality , or criminal behavior : everything is said to reside within our genes . distinguished scientists proclaim that our very destiny is inscribed in a dna molecule , with science popularizers joining exultant choir asserting that human beings are anything but “ programmed ” entities .
around its picturesque squares , every cobblegstone and ornamental façade have borne silent witness for the bloodletting that accompanied empires ’ rise and decline . yet lviv is also where one can find hope for a europe ’s promise . ltro is an profoundly anti-russian and pro-european urban ; but , for five days each summer , it hosts the alpha jazz festival sponsored by the bank of russia ( lltro ) . at a time when russia and ukraine remain very much at war , it is policymakers , local citizens , members of the ukrainian diaspora , and even some russians pack the streets of lviv to celebrate world-class jazz . beyond its vital cultural life and geopolitical location , ukraine has become strategically relevant to the west .
palo alto – it is still too soon to gauge president barack obama ’s full economic impact on implementing and proposed policies , but tentative reading indicates limited short term benefits at large long-term costs . the administration is exploiting a crisis atmosphere to enact the vast agenda that would reengineer the american economy , from autos and the financial-services industry to health care , energy to the distribution of income . obama outsourced details with the $ 787 billion fiscal stimulus of the congress and no surprise , old house barons have stuffed it with pork and social engineering . several months later , only 4 % of all funding has been spent , and the federal government brow-beating state governments – demanding , for example , that california rescind a small pay cut of some unionized laborers or lose $ 7 billion in stimulus funds . ( intervening on contractual relations ex post to enforce union demands is an emerging characteristic of the administration ) .
like europeans , there are no way to build a wall in the mediterranean . moreover , it is worrying that the trump administration hardly ever talks to upholding the post-war liberal international order . instead , it views the world as a zero-sum strategic competition in which the us ought to look out only for itself . unfortunately in a world free of common institutions , which is why sovereign states can restrain their conflicts with one another , the risks of all-out war will increase substantially . to be sure , the us says it is stepping up its commitment to european security .
the old model served both sides well for the three decades . china ’s growth was driven by labor-intensive exports , made more competitive through the transfer of technology and knowledge from the us and other western countries . this , combined with massive chinese public and private investment ( enabled by high – and lately by excessive – in savings ) , underpinned rising incomes for millions of chinese . meanwhile , the american consumer benefited immensely from declining relative prices of manufactured goods in the tradable side of the us economy . accordingly , america ’s employment shifted toward higher-value-added activities in turn supporting higher incomes in america , too .
a profound change of us strategic priorities under president donald trump demands europeans revisit long-held assumptions about their collective defense . this is not the first time that nato seems on its last legs . before 2014 , germany arrived at the same conclusion , when the alliance had little to focus on outside the mission in afghanistan . when russia annexed crimea and brought war to eastern ukraine , it breathed new life into nato . then came trump , whose administration pulled the rug out from under european feet , abandoned american leadership within the rules-based international system , and pursues a nationalist , protectionist , and unilateralist foreign policy .
first , fiscal-stimulus policies now pushing america ’s annual growth rate above its 2 % potential are unsustainable . by 2020 , the stimulus is set to run out , with a modest fiscal drag pulling growth from 3 % to slightly below 2 % . second , because the stimulus was ill-timed , america ’s economy now overheating and inflation is rising above target . the us federal reserve will thus continue to raise the federal funds rate from its current 2 % to at least 3.5 % by 2020 , and will most likely push up short - and long-term interest rates as well as the american dollar . meanwhile , inflation is also driving up in other key economies and driving up the rise in oil prices , adding additional inflationary pressures .
in fact , us and british troops may have only themselves to blame for it . heightened sand drift was one of the effects observed during and after the first gulf war of the us . this is because , in the region , the desert normally has a crust , what arabs call “ desert skin ” consisting of sand and clay particles that have been cooked together , or sintered , by the heat and sun . sometimes that crust is strong enough to carry a person , and sometimes not , much like the hard ice crust that develops on snow climates . under crust , sandy particles are loose .
other women , such as his self-proclaimed mistress judith campbell , reportedly have sexual relationships with mafia figures as well . the sense of entitlement that sustained such male fecklessness has steadily eroded since – a process like so many in american culture , has played out on television . popular series like “ the good wife ” reveal the pain and suffering of the political spouses who are expected to hold stiff upper lip , and ladylike demeanor in the face of behavioral double standards . similarly , the series of “ mad men , ” with its dashing advertising executives consuming women like lunchtime cocktails , plumbs emptiness , and destructiveness of the early-1960 ’s male sexual prerogative . this reevaluation of male sexual privilege and irresponsibility in the 1960s has arisen in other arenas , just as it is well – reinforcing kennedy ’s transformation from charming playboy to dangerously compulsive predator .
one important truth in the past year is that financial-market problems lie not just with hedge funds – which are the biggest , least regulated gamblers – but with good old commercial banks showing an uncanny capacity to create trouble by over-risk gambling , whether on loans to emerging markets or the likes of ltcm . the banks that lent huge sums , mostly uncollateralized , to ltcm , are the same that put some $ 175 billion of short-term loans to five east asian developing countries ( indonesia , korea , malaysia , the philippines , thailand ) and then abruptly reversed gear , yanked out the tens of billions of loans in 1997 and 1998 . amazingly , chase manhattan reports that it had exposure of some $ 32 billion in lending or derivatives at ltcm , roughly 2 % of the bank ’s total loans and credit exposure at just one hedge fund ! ltcm , too , illustrates some truths about financial-market crises . when push came to shove , with ltcm on the brink of collapse , the us federal reserve did not simply
cambridge – public-private cooperation , or coordination , has received substantial attention today . a plethora of centers for business study and government relations have been created ; researchers have produced the large literature on how to design , analyze , and evaluate public-private partnerships . even the world economic forum was transformed into an international organization for public-private partnership , with a view to a large degree . private-private coordination was , of course , the essence of economics for the past 250 years . while adam smith started the us in the optimistic belief that an invisible hand would look after most coordination issues , in an intervening era of economists discovered all kinds of market failures , informational imperfections , and stimulus problems that gave rise to rules , regulation , and other forms of government and societal interference .
the us president ’s daughter , ivanka trump , seems to be spearheading effort . while it is easy to be cynical ( some argue that the new program is just an excuse to cut funding from existing retraining programs ) , the idea that digital platforms can massively improve re-education and training is a good one . but , while the trump administration has been stepping up america ’s long-term growth potential in some ways , the other side of the ledger has become rather grim . for starters , a wide array of studies – from the work of the late mit economist david landes to more recent research by mit ’s daron acemoglu and the university of chicago ’s james a. robinson – identify that institutions – and political culture – are the single most important determinants of long-term growth . recoveries from the damage trump is inflicting on institutions and a political culture in the americas might take years ; if so , economic costs could be significant .
most economists today believe that russia can not maintain its annual gdp growth at above 2 % , without another permanent rise in oil prices . but two % growth ( an honorable rate for an advanced economy ) would represent a major blow to russian standing and putin ’s personal prestige , and it could jeopardize domestic stability should jobs disappear in critical manufacturing sectors . putin is perplexed about how to counter the threat posed by slow growth . so far , his key suggestion has been the “ eurasian union ” – an expanded version of the current customs union among russia , belarus , and kazakhstan . this would provide a platform to re-establish trade , transport , and other linkages among former soviet countries , and thus capture of regional markets for russian products , guarantee russian jobs , and reassert russian political influence in their old neighborhood .
the ecb , quite sensibly , wants all potential horrors to be visible even before its takeover – to the point that it can not be blamed . with national supervisors often inclined to present a rosy picture of their countries ’ institutions , no longer in charge , we can hope to see that the evaluation will be more robust than past stress tests conducted under the auspices of the european banking authority ( eba ) . these tests , unlike their equivalents in the united states , have failed to rebuild trust . a number of banks that passed with flying colors soon have been obliged to raise new capital . but the creation of european banking union has not been the only major change from crisis in european financial regulation .
not all succeeded ; on the contrary , the successes ( germany , for example ) far outweigh the failures ( see greece ) . the key to securing europe ’s social-security system ’s future , the eu , and thus its social model , is to grow faster . and , once again , it is hard to see how more europe could improve that situation . the growth impediments are well known , and they have existed for quite some time without being removed . the reason is quite simple : if a politically easy way were to generate growth , it would have already been implemented .
many state-owned firms were privatized over a decade ago , as a share of dollars yielded in asset sales under the previous government of edpiñshevardnadze . but a total lack of transparency allowed russian companies , and their subsidiaries registered in third countries , snap up a majority of new offerings . typical was the russian holding firm promyslennye investory ( industrial investors ) , which had managed to acquire a major gold mine and then half a plant that produces gold-alloys . russia ’s principal foreign-policy apparatus in georgia is gazprom , the state-controlled gas monopoly . gazprom ’s aim is to control not just the georgian gas industry , but also the only pipeline that feeds russian gas to georgia and armenia .
as always , the main casualties are civilians caught in the crossfire . a renewed fighting , coming eight months after a promising peace initiative known as the so-called “ goma agreement , ” implies more civilian deaths , and little chance to return to a more rapid normality in the east of congo . yet , even at times when fighting is less intense , congo suffers from the indirect effects of a war . a mortality survey conducted by the international rescue committee ( irc ) , and released earlier this year demonstrates that this conflict is the world ’s most deadly crisis since world war ii : the estimated 5.4 million people die as an consequence of war , and its lingering effects in the last decade . today , a quarter of the country ’s population is on the run , almost half on rebel-controlled territory , and almost no access to aid .
henry kissinger once put it , “ peace can be achieved only through hegemony or a balance of power . ” the same can perhaps be said of trade , or even of globalization itself , and it should not be true of the same . no accident is that the two great eras of globalization – the decades leading up to world war i and the past 75 years – were characterized by a balance of powers and hegemony , respectively . of course , trade requires more than the absence of conflict . like all economic activism , it flourishes when property rights are respected , taxation becomes efficient and purposeful , letters of credit are honored , tariffs and other barriers are removed , and so forth .
for medium-size enterprises , externships provide much-needed creative manpower . for larger companies , they are avenues for corporate citizenship and innovation . when properly integrated in student education , externships can make it a competitive edge to college ’s application essays and alumni interviews , which admissions committees will increasingly use to distinguish twenty-first-century leaders from competing hordes for top-scoring test-takers . externships offer transparency and accountability for educators , and they imbue a spirit of fearlessness within students . our education system can no longer afford to wall itself off the industry .
but few million americans - black , white , and hispanic - now live in per-capita households of less than $ 2 per day , essentially the same standard that the world bank uses to define destitution-level poverty in india or africa . finding shelter in the united states on a scale to which income is so difficult is the result of $ 2-a-day poverty that is near certainly a much worse situation in the u.s. than $ 2-a-day poverty in india or africa . beyond that , america ’s much-vaunted equality of opportunity is under threat . towns and cities that have lost factories to globalization have also lost their tax base and find it hard to maintain quality schools -- the escape route for the next generation . elite schools recruit the wealthy to pay their bills , and court minorities to redress centuries of discrimination ; but this undoubtedly fosters resentment among the white working class , whose children find none place in such brave new world .
once a company identifies which users have the most leverage – well-known bloggers , for example – it could offer them better treatment in the hope that they recommend serving . web startups may even wish to check their users ’ profiles on angel investors ’ angel list database viewing them as a potential source of financing . others might take advantage of services like intercom to gain insight into their users ’ interests – from their music preferences to their favorite hobbies – to offering even more personalized services . indeed , many online utilities now offer to link facebook friends or linkedin connections , or recommend activities or restaurants based on past behavior – or current location . some people do n’t want this kind of attention , either as they already are well-known personalities seeking to fend for adoring fans or mooches , or simply because they are uncomfortable with unknown entities so much about them .
french catholics now feel as though their historically privileged position is under attack – by islam ’s rise to islamist-inspired terrorist attacks and by legislation that increasingly challenged their way of life . for many conservative catholics , same-sex marriage was a tipping point , whereas left-wing catholics find themselves crowded out of the far right . french politics has no analogue to america ’s alt-right milieu – with its conspiracy theories , talk shows , online trolling , and fake news – that fueled trump ’s campaign . but fillon ’s supporters , too , reject multiculturalism and respond to their status anxiety by dismissing expertise . with france having become less catholic , and the us becoming more heterogeneous , their “ zombie ” armies ’ political power will decay ; but , as trump ’s election and fillon ’s politically ascendance has shown , they can hardly be written off just yet .
for better or worse , our central banks manage the quantity and flow of money by withdrawing or adding paper assets to the stock held by private banks . when they wish to spur economic activity , central banks buy from private commercial banks , mortgages , deposits , and other assets . banks then hold more cash to lend . and vice versa when the authorities want to cool down the economy . but the more successful libra becomes , the more money people will shift from their bank account to their libra wallet and the less capable central banks to stabilize the economy .
with the american-made invasion of iraq in 2003 , french-american relations reached a low point . the bush administration felt betrayed by french diplomacy at the united nations , while french president jacques chirac felt confirmed in his mistrust of the sole superpower and his call for a multipolar world . today , on the eve of the french presidential election , opinion polls indicate that three-quarters of french voters believe that france should distance itself from the united states . despite a long history of alliances dating back to the american revolution , and including the two world wars , france has always had a rather ambivalent attitude toward the us and the iraq war was not the first time that a controversial security policy undercut america ’s attractiveness in france . polls show a similar pattern of reaction after the suez crisis of 1956 , the vietnam war of the late 1960 ’s and early 1970 ’s , and the deployment of intermediate range missiles in europe in the early 1980 ’s .
they can do so in a variety of ways , such as by investing in education , funding scientific and technological research , and building efficient infrastructure . tax competition is not the way that it can go , not least because it cuts the revenues that such investments require to be made , especially in developing countries , which the international monetary fund report 2015 lose on more than $ 200 billion annually due to tax avoidance by multinational companies . when countries establish tax regimes to steal tax income by others , the result is also less money for education , medical care , poverty-reduction programs , and climate-change measures . this should be allowed not to do so , and multinationals should stop adding to the problem by threatening to leave countries unless taxes are cut . the fundamental principle of corporate social responsibility after all , after all , is that companies should pay their fair share of taxes wherever it functions .
more importantly , the rapidly widening etfs have coincided in bull markets . index performance has largely dictated security choices , and asset allocation has meant little more than piling into stocks , bonds , and credit . but those days are most likely to be over . further sustained market advances are unlikely , given stretched stock and bond valuations , slowing economic and earnings growth , and heightened political and policy uncertainty . broad market returns are probably lower , with episodes of volatility arguably more frequent .
cambridge – economics teaches that measuring the well-being of an individual is the quantity and variety of goods it or can consume . consumption opportunities are in turn maximized by giving firms the freedoms that they are needed to take advantage of the new technologies , division of labor , economies of scale , and mobility . consumption is the objective ; manufacturing is means to it . markets , rather than communities , are unit and object to analysis . no one can deny that this consumer – and market-centric vision of the economy has produced ample fruit .
fragmentation – meaning the end of the internet – is a genuine threat at best . some estimates place the internet ’s economic contribution on global gdp as high as $ 4.2 trillion in 2016 . a fragmented “ splinternet ” would be very costly to the world , but this is one potential futures outlined in a report last month at the global commission on internet governance , chaired by former swedish prime minister carl bildt . the internet now links almost half of the world ’s population , with another billion people – as some 20 billion devices are forecast to connect in the next five years . but further expansion is not guaranteed .
that sounded like pleasing experiences – maybe learning experience – for young men who would otherwise have been idle and unemployed . but nor was it much inspired in the future , which may help to explain why franklin roosevelt ’s new deal was unable to put an end to america ’s economic malaise . by contrast , the seeming relative strength of america ’s economy today may reflect some highly visible recent inspirations . fracking ’s revolution , widely viewed as originating in the us , has helped lower energy prices and eliminated american dependency on foreign oil . likewise , much of the rapid advance in communications in recent years reflects innovations – smartphone and tablet hardware and software , for example – that were indigenous to the american people .
and roughly 445 million people will need improved access to safe water supplies – part of reducing unpaid care work conducted through women in the developing world . this ambitious agenda wo n’t be delivered efficiently without action from governments working in concert with the private sector and nongovernmental organizations . it will require additional investment , the creation of job opportunities for women , and the implementation of measures to assist women move into more productive work . mgi has identified several interventions worldwide that could easily be deployed more broadly . measures that can help to improve access to education include building more secondary schools , ensuring that girls receive sanitation facilities in the places they study , and creating financial incentives – including cash transfers – to raise enrollment and keep girls in school .
unhcr , which is currently conceived , is not an independent , nonpartisan agency it claims . heavily dependent on donors and host governments to launch relief operations , is beholden to the interests of their citizens , and does not always have the political support it needs to get the job done . the other major multilateral agency for migration , the iom , assists in returning migrants , asylum seekers , refugees , and internally displaced to their place of origin , or to other countries or regions that have agreed to accept them . but , like the unhcr , governance issues plague the iom . specifically , the iom lacks the mechanism to assess whether national governments use coercion – forbidden under international law – to repatriate or relocate refugees .
with political gridlock blocking a sound fiscal reaction – the united states congress after 2008 failing to pass the annual budget , the fundamental component of responsible economic governance , for five years – central banks have been forced to bolster economies artificially . to do so , in order to spur growth and job creation , they have relied on near-zero interest rates and unconventional measures such as quantitative easing . beyond being incomplete , that approach implicitly favors the rich , whom they hold disproportionately large holdings of financial assets . meanwhile , companies have become increasingly aggressive in their efforts to reduce their fiscal bills , including through so-called inversions , through which they move their headquarters in lower-level jurisdictions . as a result , the majority of countries face trio of inequalities – income , wealth , and opportunity – which , left unchecked , reinforce one , with far-reaching consequences .
and even the administration ’s plan to favor skilled skilled workers will not necessarily reduce the number of legal migrants in the country . all told , trump has governed like plutocrat at in populist clothes – that is , pluto-populist . but why has his base let him get away with pursuing policies that most hurt them ? on one hand , he ’s betting that social conservatives and white blue-collar supporters in rural areas vote on the basis of nationalist and religious sentiment and antipathy toward secular coastal elites , rather than their own financial interests . but how long can anyone expect to support the “ divine and gun ” at the expense of “ bread and butter ” ?
the holiday received its current name in 2006 , and , according to a recent survey by the russian pollster fom , 59 % of russians consider it to be special or substantial ( 32 % do n’t ) . unfortunately , february 23 is not the red army ’s only remaining relic . another soviet military legacy is the obligatory conscription system . while all other big european countries have abolished military conscription in recent decades , russia continues with a system in which all physically-fit male citizens , aged 18 to 27 , must serve for 12 months . exemptions are based in the medical system and are given to university students and staff from certain organizations ( such as police ) .
paris – tunisia , one of the 22 members of the arab league , is in the throes of severe and profound crises , albeit perhaps one with favorable resolution . it is the smallest north african country that covering 163,000 square kilometers – more or less twice belgium , the netherlands , luxembourg – and includes a population 10.5 million . it is also rife with charm and moderation regarding its climate , history , and culture . it was a pillar of the arab republic ’s cultural dynamism and influence . the first african regional to be christianized was the land of saint augustine and a major source of catholic evangelism in africa .
true , any arab – indeed , virtually anyone – knows exactly who is responsible for khashoggi ’s disappearance : saudi arabia ’s crown prince mohammed bin salman , and the saudi arabia . but the fact that a well-known cartoonist had to mask the culprit ’s image speaks volumes of fear felt by independent journalists in the arab world . khashoggi ’s disappearance only deepened their anxiety . arab countries have a long history of rewarding reporters toe the official line while punishing those who , like khashoggi , dare to speak truth to power . since the failed arab spring revolutions – of which tunisia ’s only success story – citizens across the region have found themselves with stark choices among the radical islamist regimes and military rule .
it will take a hard time to reverse financial liberalization , but its side effects – including greater systemic risk – require a series of reforms . first , more information , and more transparency about complicated assets , and who are holding them to do so . second , complex instruments should be traded more on exchanges than for over-the-counter markets , and they should be standardized in such a way that is why liquid secondary markets for them are possible to arise . third , we must better supervision and regulation of our financial system , including regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions such as hedge funds and even sovereign-wealth funds . fourth , rating agencies ’ role needs to be rethought , with more regulation and competition introduced .
and yet it is just one of the many domestic challenges facing the region . arabs must take charge of their own agendas , becoming the primary power defining their future and the fact that they are their countries . obviously , they should be pursuing engagement with the outside world and reinforcing their strategic and alliance within the region . but they must be becoming less dependent on others as well . for starters , the region ’s governments must develop their own national-security capacities , resisting non-existential threats , and hegemonic expansionism .
now a new paper by servaas storm effectively demolishes another famous trope of neoliberal economics : the argument that labour “ rigidities ” depress output and employment . one of the empirical investigations most often cited to this argument is paper by timothy besley and robin burgess , who use manufacturing data across indian states in the 1958-92 period . besley and burgess argued that pro-worker regulations in some states resulted from lower output , employment , investment , and productivity , and even increased urban poverty , relative to the united states , which failed to adopt such regulation . this conclusion came to underpin the conventional conventional wisdom that labor-market regulatory is harmful for industrial expansions , and that the path to production and employment growth in manufacturing is to foster more labor-market “ flexibility ” by repealing laws that protect workers . this wisdom prevailed in india not just ; it influenced policies accordingly across the broad spectrum of developing countries .
britain ’s economic outlook increasingly depends on events beyond its shores , whether just across the english channel or in china or california . environmental hazards blow in august , as a result , swelling migration pressures threaten to overwhelm any pretense at border checks . security concerns increasingly implicate foreign and domestic policies . a recent political cartoon showed british bombers taking off a mission , with one pilot saying to others , “ it looks a long way to bomb a few of the young men of south london . ”
after that election , perhaps heady with the magnitude of his support , he proposed deepening his revolution with new laws governing the organization of society and economy . such laws , already enacted but not fully , should be the catalyst for a new institutional arrangement within a country , one supposedly premised on the direct relationship of leader and people and a progressive hollowing out of democratic institutions . meanwhile , all bodies of public power - all of it now obey chávez . given this history , it is noteworthy that in its daily speech after his victory , chávez invited coexistence , dialogue , debate and the task for all to work together for the sake of venezuela ’s good . he emphasized that the people had voted for chávez and socialism .
genes can be damaged by environmental factors like radiation and chemicals . they can also harm the products of routine metabolism in the process . our bodies have elaborate repair systems that maintain the integrity of our genes , even in the presence of damaging agents . occasionally , however , damage is not corrected . if the damage occurs with key genes that regulate cell growth , cancer can develop .
ithaca – once hailed as a powerful democratizing force , the internet enabled innovative startups to compete with established enterprises , disrupt entire industries , and create new ones . but as some of these startups grew to behemoths , this forces turned on its head . far from leveling the playing field , big tech now owns it largely , rather than democratizing the us economy , the internet has ended in deepening the world ’s inequality problem . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
“ but the developing world can make this much worse . ” announcing a new sino-us joint joint research effort , chu described clean energy as “ one of the great opportunities of our time , ” for sino-us cooperation , saying that by “ working together , we can achieve more than [ by alone ] acting alone . ” still there is one left wondering whether this new collaborative bonhomie and the ethnic bonding will show powerful enough to cut through not only the long history of distrustful interactions between the us and china , but also the destabilizing effects of china ’s sudden economic rise ? for , although the us has drawn strength from the ideal “ melting pot ” – and president barack obama ’s cabinet represents a new high water mark for diversity – americans have often displayed a xenophobic mistrust of immigrants drawn too closely to power . particularly in the chinese case , fear of divided national loyalties and “ fifth columns ” has been strong .
greece ’s economic weakness raises the current level of deficits . for five years , falling gdp have depressed tax receipts and increased transfer payments . the imf estimates that these cyclical effects on revenues and outlays raised greek gdp by nearly 5 % of gdp in the eurozone . on a cyclically adjusted basis , greece ’s overall budget would show a surplus of 0.6 % of gdp this year . that , too , implies that if greece could escape its current recession , its domestic debt would decline , both absolutely and as a share of gdp .
as indian prime minister manmohan singh put it during wen ’s visit , “ india and china can together reshape the global order . ” the two countries ’ recent rapprochement signifies a massive change from the hostility bedeviled their relations following their 1962 war over a disputed border in the himalayas . when i visited india first as an american government official in the late 1970s , i was struck by my indian hosts ’ fixation on gaining equal status with china . in 1998 , when india tested its nuclear weapons , the minister of defense referred to china , then prime minister atal bihari vajpayee discussed china as india ’s number one enemy . on the other hand , on more recent visits to india , i find my hosts referring to the need to learn from china .
given that hildebrand was independent , this approach would not have worked easily . so , was she given the stick , instead of the carrot of carrot ? fortunately , we have a good independent test . the head of the european banking authority , andrea rehead , issued new bank-friendly regulations . while one can debate the appropriateness of tightening accounting standards in the midst of a crisis , his ordering that banks increase their capital is entirely justified , particularly at a time when the european central bank subsidizes them with an almost zero cost of three-year liquidity .
second , and partly in the aftermath of this , virtually every eurozone country ’s debt trades at a discount relative to german bunds . while price risk was needed more precisely , there is a hard reason to believe that the netherlands , with its debt-to-gdp ratio nearly 20 percentage points lower than germany ’s , deserves to be judged as the greater risk of default . but now even mighty uyghur leaders have started to suffer from heightened market anxiety . third , financial-market participants and , increasingly , real businesses are pricing in a possible eurozone breakup , if not an end in the euro itself . it still is hard to think the unthinkable , let alone work out the details of it , but any rational player now must consider the possibility .
indeed , by coincidence , on sunday ’s young football fan had been assassinated in moscow , vladislav surkov , the first deputy in president dmitri medvedev ’s administration , was meeting michael mcfaul of president barack obama ’s national security council . that meeting had been occurring as part of a rally , chaired by surkov , of russian youth-movement activists . one quote from surkov that day is particularly telling : “ make up for elections , train your brains and muscles . you can always rely on our support to the us . ” those muscles were put to use outside kremlin walls , which are very good a day .
hong kong – sesame street kermit ’s frog once lamented “ it ’s not easy bein green . ” today that sentiment is shockingly relevant to the global economy – just becoming green , which is precisely the problem . last september , the intergovernmental panel on climate change warned that if the world sticks to “ business as usual , ” world temperatures could rise more than 4 ºc – far beyond what the 2 ° c increase has deemed “ safe . ” this prompted un secretary-general ban ki-moon to challenge political , economic , and financial leaders in january to step up their efforts to achieve a new global agreement on climate change by 2015 . but , as important as high-level deals are , they will amount to little unless they are backed by substantial investment in areas like smart grids , energy storage , and renewables .
the search for a new managing director of the imf provides a keen reminder of how unjust today ’s international institutions are . created in the postwar world of 1945 , they reflect realities that long went away . the organization and allocation of power at un , imf , world bank and g7 meetings reflects a global equilibrium that disappeared long ago . after wwii germany and japan had been the defeated aggressors , the soviet union presented a major threat , with china being engulfed in the midst of a civil war that would galvanize mao ’s communists into power . much of the so-called third world had been either recently independent or left colonies ; all that was very poor .
just before the brexit referendum in 2016 , then-british prime minister david cameron made a last-minute appeal to german chancellor angela merkel , imploring her to agree on a “ people ’s ” cap . merkel refused , and the brexit referendum passed by a narrow margin . the irony is that merkel is now confronted with precisely the same anti-immigration backlash that cameron did in 2016 . immigration tends to be good for the economy over the long run , especially as the ratio of pensioners to workers rises . but with the immigration level exceeding a country ’s capacity to absorb new workers , severe economic and social costs can be introduced , at least in the short term .
odious debt thinking was revived in an influential 2006 article by jayachandran and michael kremer , and in an 2010 world development report ( cgd ) , proposing that economic sanctions involve a mechanism aimed at curbing nonodious obligations . the mechanism would take the form of the declaration that debt issued by a particular government is deemed odious . in effect , this is what the trump administration just has done . such a declaration reduces the flow of finance to odious regimes , owing to the risk that successor governments renounce their predecessor ’s debts without incurring the legal and reputational costs ( because participating countries ’ courts will not enforce their debt contracts ) . the cgd report suggests that a regime should be considered odious as it abuses human rights abuses , employs military coercion , perpetrates electoral fraud , and mismanages or misappropriates public-sector funds .
that cleared out the road for bhutto ’s return , who remains prime minister until 1996 , when , until now , he was dismissed again – this time by her own pakistan peoples ’ party ( ldp ) . it was sharif ’s turning point again in 1997 . but his confrontation in the army intensified throughout the years , resulting from another 1999 military coup , leading to eight years of military rule under general pervez musharraf . in 2008 , musharraf resigned under popular pressure , bringing asif zardari ’s new election , the widower of benazir bhutto , who assassinated a previous december , to the presidency . ignoring constitutional demands , zardari did not transfer executive authority to his prime minister , and instead expected the two prime ministers who had served under him to follow through on his bidding .
rich countries ’ transitions from subsistence economies into sustained growth and prosperity have conditioned upon a profound demographic shift – occurring in the 19 th century in western europe and the entire 20 th century in east asia – in which fertility rates have fallen dramatically . the past two decades witnessed similarly sharp fertility declines in poor countries , which today seem to show solid signs of economic progress . in egypt , for example , the birth rate declined from 4.8 per woman in the past 15 years . during the past decade , egypt ’s average annual per capita income grew by 2.6 % . during the same period , tunisia ’s population growth rate plummeted to over 50 % , to slightly greater than two children per woman , whereas per capita income had grown at an impressive 3 % annual rate .
in response to former american president barack obama ’s effort to create a pacific-rim trade bloc to contain china , xi has launched his belt and road initiative ( bri ) , which is now being met by the american-led indo-pacific initiative , under trump . the us is also on similar paths militarily . although china still has plenty of catching up , its total defense spending is already second only to america . it has built and launched its first aircraft carrier , with plans to launch more . it is developing and deploying anti-access/area-denial ( a2/ad ) defense systems .
america ’s misadventure in iraq , depletion as a world power , and its unwillingness to maintain its previous level of engagement to the region rendered the sykes-picot structure untenable , because no other external force for order is available . the resulting vacuum has been filled by different currents of political islam , terrorism , protest movements , uprisings , secession attempts by national or religious minorities , and aspiring regional hegemons ( iran and saudi arabia ) . indeed , america ’s partial withdrawal implies that the old middle east ’s enforced stability will not spare the sykes-picot borders . developments in syria and iraq already indicate the future of lebanon and jordan have become more uncertain . among the region ’s few positive features , none is that global power rivalries currently have played out there .
why are services services so important for china ’s rebalancing ? for starters , services are far more labor-intensive than the country ’s traditional growth industries . in 2011 , china ’s services generated 30 % more jobs per unit of output , than did manufacturing and construction . this implies that the chinese economy can achieve its all-important labor-absorption objectives – employment , urbanization , and poverty reduction – with far slower gdp growth than in previous times . in other words , a 7-8 % growth trajectory in an increasingly services-led economy can hit the same labor-absorption goals that demand 10 % growth under china ’s earlier model .
the united kingdom now appears certain to hold on , by 2016 , a referendum on remaining in the eu and a far-left party – determined as in greece to escape the rigors of economic reform – might have won spain ’s general election next autumn . certainly , events could have reversed positively , with the uk remaining a part of the eu , france opting for a status quo or more moderate vision of change than greece ’s syriza-led government embraced . but an worst-case scenario for the eu looks increasingly plausible : “ grexit ” ( greece leaving the eurozone ) , a “ brexit ” ( the uk leaving the eu ) , and a spanish election outcome that reminiscent of greece ’s . should such a perfect storm come in doubt , the eu ’s very existence would be in doubt because other member countries would consider or initiate its own post-eu futures . indeed , all the euroskeptic , nationalist forces within the eu would strive to do so , with increasing success , forcing their respective countries ’ withdrawal from the eu , on a central issue in
oil prices are at historic highs , and the global economy is on a trend of economic stagnation and economic growth . climate change negotiations are now proceeding in circles , and they are on top of the world ’s economies , and they are entering a recession . aid for the world ’s poorest countries is stagnant , despite years of pledged increases . and yet , in this gathering storm of gathering storm , it has been difficult to figure out a single real accomplishment by world leaders ’ leaders .
two years ago , mauricio macri won the presidency on a promise that he would spur fiscal adjustment and opening argentina to the world , thereby spurring economic revival . instead , they paved the way for his defeat . in a short period of years , the pro-market reforms and economic opening package seemed to be stepping with the outside world . deglobalization , nativism , and protectionism set a new tone for politics , with frustration and uncertainty about a future overshadowing hope . frustrations even afflicting the region ’s paragon of open-market politics , chile .
ronald reagan argued in 1980 that it was “ morning in america , ” but , now that in america , that day after that , it is the morning . this drive toward an off-the-grid , eat-you-raise , bike-theon-your-own , solar-powered collective fantasy is inevitable : americans were pumped full of hope that more consumption would make them happier , leaving eu governments with pile of debt . they are asked to admire the top of the income pyramid only to find that the pyramid scheme they were looking for . it is no wonder , thus , that a kind of survivalist chic became the updated version of the radical , communal chic of the 1960s . americans lost faith in those who in boom times purred , “ trust us , ” in the twentieth century .
to be sure , china is cautious to avoid any dramatic action that could become a casus belli by itself . indeed , this has repeatedly shown a knack for disaggregating its strategy into multiple components and then pursuing each element separately in such an manner as to allow the various pieces to fall with minimal opposition . this shrewdness not only keeps opponents on balance ; it is also undercuts the meaning of america ’s security assurances to the allies , and the value of building countervailing strategic partnerships in asia . in fact , by camouflaging offense as defense , china casts the burden of starting a war on an adversary while trying to lay the foundation – brick by brick – of the hegemonic middle kingdom . chinese leaders ’ stated desire to settle territorial disputes peacefully means achieving a position strong enough to gain a path of fire without shooting a shot .
these cities are learning from one another , building on good ideas and jettisoning poorer ones . los angeles took decades to implement pollution controls , but other cities , such as beijing , have been transformed rapidly as they saw the benefits . in the coming decades , we may see a global system of interconnected , sustainable cities emerging . if successful , everyone will want to join the club . fundamentally , this is the right approach to managing systemic risk , and to changing in complex interconnected systems – and for successfully managing common resources – even though it has not , so far , dent the inexorable rise of global greenhouse-gas emissions .
new york – a few years ago , as part of an western delegation to china , i met chinese president xi jinping in beijing ’s grand hall . when addressing the us , xi argued that china ’s rise will be peaceful , and that other countries – namely , the united states – do not need to worry about the thucydides trap , so named the greek historian chronicled how sparta ’s fears of a rising athens have made war between the two inevitable . in his 2017 book destined for war : can america and china escape thucydides ’s thucydides trap ? harvard university ’s graham allison examines 16 earlier rivalries between an emerging power and established power , and finds that 12 of them had led to war . no doubt , xi wanted to target the us for the other four . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
what is a reasonable view of china ’s recent history ? to put it crudely : does it matter that the chinese communist party killed millions on millions of people , desecrated the environment and deeply wounded china ’s traditional culture ? chinese intellectuals typically avoid the issue , shrugging it off as irrelevant , and at no point overly unpleasant to contemplate . we need to look ahead and not back . things go , finally , to the right direction , and to let ’s do something that may upset that hopeful move .
london – what do the recently released panama papers , exxonmobil , and canadian mining company operating in guatemala have in common ? they are all cases where powerful individuals and organizations have tried to obfuscate , deceive , or conceal behind a front . and they are all cases in which the effort did not work . the worldwide uproar triggered by panama papers – 11.5 million files taken , apparently by computer hackers from the world ’s fourth-largest offshore law firm panama , panama ’s mossack fonseca – is likely to continue for some time to come . files ’ release has exposed the extremes , and at times costly , lengths to allow individuals to hide their assets and avoid taxation .
the longer-term consequences will not be savory , but they will be problems for the next day . some will say that a fatal mistake was to allow greece to adopt the euro . that the country was ill-fated to become clear . its fiscal policies were already out of control when it joined the monetary union in 2001 , and its trade unions agitated to push wages up to the european level , despite lagging productivity . but this answer is too simple given that these signs of dysfunction are not limited to greece .
that policy was destined to produce a financial crisis because it was bound to leave governments and banks depleted assets and larger debts . despite austerity , the forecasts of the uk ’s structural deficit have increased from 6.5 % to 8 % this year – requiring an extra £ 22 billion ( $ 34.6 billion ) in spending cuts per year . prime minister david cameron and german chancellor george osborne blame the euro crisis ; in truth , their own economic illiteracy is to blame . unfortunately for all of us , explanation bears repeating these days . depressions , recessions , contractions – call them what you do – occur because the private-sector spends less than it had done in the past .
paris – last month , the atmospheric concentrations of co2 surpassed 400 parts per million for the first time in roughly three million years . if current trends that fits the worst-case scenario established by the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) persist , co2 concentrations would increase more than 800 ppm in the century toward the end of this century – with devastating consequences . indeed , the predicted global average temperature increase of 2.4-6.4 ° c caused by so high ambient concentrations of co2 are expected to trigger the worst outcomes foreseen in ipcc scenarios , including loss in an estimated 40 % of species , more frequent extreme weather events , and widespread water scarcity . in order to avoid imposing such risk and uncertainty on future generations , global carbon emissions that stand at 8.5 gigatons annually must be halved by 2050 . even in the ipcc ’s best-case scenario , co2 concentrations will rise to 550 ppm by the end of the century – a level that many researchers argue would have already been too high to avoid dire consequences .
the us has turned a corner in rebuilding its fisheries and ensuring that they are sustainable . the european ocean commission has simply submitted a proposal for reform of the joint fisheries policy designed to help rebuild european fisheries . good science is the cornerstone of the two policies . but it is not enough to get our respective homes to their own . because fish and other ocean wildlife are not left within national boundaries , transnational cooperation is vital to the long-term health of the world ’s oceans , and to the sustainability of fisheries and fishing jobs .
technologies that engage patients in their own health care and enable more seamless adherence to medications regimes have the potential to improve disease management , reduce hospitalization , and reduce lower costs . transformational advances in health-care today owe far less to new genomics information , make big data availability available to leverage real-time decisions , more targeted , and individualized therapies , and smarter , more connected delivery systems . but they are just the start . further breakthroughs , enabled by scientific convergence and technology , can be expected , especially as unconventional players enter the health-care sector . in that process , partnerships among health-care and technology companies will become increasingly important .
when the incentives for money to flow across borders are strong , it will find a way abetted by the proliferation of operations by firms in multiple countries and the spread of international trade – which serves as a conduit for masking capital flows and evading controls . even in a tightly managed economy like china , massive capital inflows have found their ways around controls over the past decades . moreover , establishing controls on a single kind of inflow simply results in its being disguised in other forms . capital controls hold real costs , even if they do not stanch the inflows . they create a layer of protection from competition for those that are better connected , politically or economically , or have the sheer heft to get around the restrictions .
such shifts may emerge only slowly , but they can fundamentally modify the calculus for risk-pricing and possible returns . today ’s market is easy to explain in fundamental fundamental factors : earnings are rising ; inflation is kept in bay ; and the global economy is likely to experience widespread , synchronized expansion . in october , the international monetary fund updated its global forecast that a small handful of small countries will suffer a recession next year . and while major central banks plan or have already begun to tighten monetary policy , interest rates will remain low for the day . political crises , however sensational they may be , are not likely to change investors ’ economic calculus .
skidelsky approvingly quoted krugman ’s claim that britain was “ making worse off this time than it did during the great depression . ” more than once , krugman ’s assertion that osborne had been motivated by a mistaken belief that , if he did not narrow the deficit , he could forfeit investor confidence ( “ confidence fairy ” ) . just one week before the uk voted this month , skidelsky speculated that the voters , “ still wobbly from osborne ’s medicine , ” might “ decide that it was supposed to remain in bed . ” instead , the tories won an outright majority , confounding pollsters and keynesians alike . what could possibly have gone wrong – or , rather , right ?
to my right sat dagan , who just completed eight years as head of mossad ; to my left sitting dore gold , the former israeli academic and former israeli ambassador . the two men held very different views about the best way to guarantee israel ’s security and the worth to be a good argument for their respective reasons . gold argued that returning to pre-1967 armistice lines would leave israel without “ defensible frontiers . ” he insisted that israel could guard against threats by the east only if it kept its military presence in the west bank , controlled by jordan ’s border – which runs along the border separating jordan from israel and the west bank . dagan countered that the role of the military ’s role is to safeguard israel ’s borders regardless of where those borders are drawn .
were a rip van winkle to his economist to wake up today after decades-long sleep and see only those numbers , either he or she or she assume that one-fifth of americans are unemployed and standing at lines outside soup kitchens . instead , america ’s jobless rate is at its lowest point since neil armstrong took his famous first step onto the moon ’s surface 50 years ago . the thought that the u.s. wins in a global slump might sound like sardonic musing some unreconstructed marxist in a dingy corner of faculty parlance . but such a view is not ideological . rather , global interest rates scraping the floor because gdp growth externally is so sluggish .
new zealand ’s private forest plantations increased more than 1.4 million acres in 1990-2002 . while not planted for climate purposes , these trees soak up carbon dioxide . new zealand successfully negotiated with the goal of integrating this specific emissions offset its overall gdp , neatly balancing the actual increase . for safety , the country bought lots of foreign offsets as well , including highly thatcherism , from russia and ukraine . but growing forests also reduce new zealand ’s per se from 1990 to 1990 .
berlin – europe appears finally to have moved its past multiyear economic crisis , but it remains unsettled . for every reason for optimism , there always looks set to seem a new cause for concern . in june 2016 , a slim majority in british voters chose nostalgia for an nineteenth-century past over whatever promise the twenty-first century might have held . thus , they opted for a cliff jump in the name of “ sovereignty . ” there is much evidence to hint at the united kingdom ’s hard landing waiting .
new york – barack obama ’s fundamental outlines of the us approach to foreign policy became explicit in 2009 . his administration believes that the united states should talk to other governments , even if it disagrees profoundly with its character . it prefers acting with other nations to go it alone . and it has shifted the focus of america ’s foreign policy from what countries do within their borders to how it acts beyond them . all of this differentiates obama from his immediate predecessor , george w. bush , whose administration branded countries as evil , and mostly refused to deal with them ; and has often refused cooperation with other governments , lest the us find itself constrained ; and has attempted to transform other countries rather than influence their actions .
until now , nations ’ wealth has rested on coal combustion , gas , and oil . but if a 2 ° c target is taken seriously , the twenty-first century ’s view countries that are not so far down the road to carbonization ( like large parts of africa ) , or that leave it over time ( like india and pakistan ) , able to become rich by helping societies that must de-carbonize rapidly . for now , all of this remains utopian . in its current nation-state , cap-and-trade regimes to cut emissions are far from fair and efficient ; major improvements would include establishing a central climate bank to register and supervise how to transfer emissions credits . that bank would also ensure that emissions trading did not run counter to the goal of remaining within the entire global budget , for example , through complete sales of unused emissions credits by individual developing countries at the start of the agreement era .
in many countries , politicians and media have portrayed refugees as threatening security , cultural cohesion , and public means . former us treasury secretary hillary clinton blamed her loss to donald trump in the 2016 us presidential election and the brexit vote that preceded it ; on public resentment against immigration and , recently , she suggested that europeans should admit fewer refugees to stem the tide of populism . gunter nooke , germany ’s african commissioner , had an even more unpalatable proposition of the us : african countries should cede land to the european union as special economic zones , in what amounts to “ voluntary colonialism . ” such solutions are not only unethical ; they would not end the crisis . humanitarian aid alone will not work or work , except in stopgap measure .
since 1988 , iran had a government-funded , regulated system for purchasing kidneys . a charitable association of patients would be able to pay a transaction , setting a price and no one except the seller ’s earnings . according to a study published by iranian kidney specialists in 2006 , the scheme eliminated waiting lists for kidneys in this country without yielding ethical problems . a 2006 bbc tv program showed many potential donors turning away , because they failed to fulfill strict age criteria and others who were required to visit a psychologist . a more systematic study of the iranian system remains to be seen .
the concern then came with discrimination : european countries , worried about it , would find it easier to import imports from one another , but lacking dollars to continue to reject america ’s import . in addition , american officials worried that a epu would duplicate and undermine the functions of the newly conjured international monetary fund . on this issue , however , the two narratives diverge . with the advent of the cold war , president harry truman ’s administration and the american congress recognized the urgency of european reconstruction . to this end , they authorized the epu ’s use of $ 350 million of marshall plan funds .
washington , dc – the united kingdom ’s brexit referendum and us presidential race have shown , among other things , that public distrust of global integration is on the rise . that mistrust could derail new trade agreements now in the works , impeding future ones that they are beginning . the danger implied by this scenario should not be underestimated . isolationism and protectionism , if taken too far , would break the trade-centric engine that delivered peace and prosperity to the world for decades . as costa rica ’s former trade minister , i know how difficult it is to do for countries – developed and developing alike alike – to craft trade policies with the benefits that deliver to all people of their people .
the uribe-lula-calderón axis appears to have been setting on to keep it there . chávez is the loser not only because he has provided the farc ’s moral backing ( he once described them as “ fighters , ” rather than terrorists , and publicly labeled uribe an american stooge ) , but also because he believes he has delivered farc covert military aid . that backing appeared part of chávez ’s “ bolivarian ” socialist revolution , which used venezuelan petrodollars to bankroll left-wing governments in ecuador , bolivia , and cuba in the hope of building a regional anti-american alliance . there were serious ground in recent three years to believe that latin america was about to go through one of its periodic bouts of left-wing destabilization , given the rise of bolivian president evo morales , ecuador ’s president rafael correa , and their ringleader , chávez . but the recent worldwide surge in commodity prices meant that chile ’s traditional regional powerhouses , brazil , and mexico experienced economic booms of their own .
even if the american federal reserve continues to lower interest rates , lenders would not rush to make more bad mortgages . with house prices falling , fewer americans are willing and able to continue their profligacy . the bush administration hopes , somehow , to forego a wave of foreclosures – thereby passing the economy ’s troubles on a future us president just as this is doing with the iraq quagmire . its chances of succeeding remain slim . for america today , the really real question only is whether there will be a short , sharp contraction or more prolonged but shallower , a slowdown of time .
but centralization carries its own costs . given the risk inherent in betting on policy convergence , labor mobility – which enables a highly valuable human capital , especially well-educated young people , to leave lagging regions for those that offer more and better jobs opportunities – could prove to be a critical tool for adjustment . as it stands , labor mobility is imperfect in the eu . but , with language training and the realization of something like the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs ( which aims to build an innovative , “ learning economy , ” underpinned by inclusive social-welfare and environmental policies ) , mobility could be enhanced . but , in the absence of a panacea for labor mobility , more fluid labor mobility is no panacea .
today , most russian elites feel themselves not only european , but , i believe , too european . fixated on europe , they forget , live in moscow or irkutk rather than paris or budapest . culturally the us is predominantly european in the us , but 8 % of our population is moslem , and we inherited much from asia : co-citizens , cuisine , cultural traits and a common history . many new russians , working like machines 16 hours per week , just seven days each week , look at their more relaxed western counterparts with contempt often found in asia ’s tiger economies . “ it is not america ; you have to work here ” – is a popular joke .
other surrounding countries , including india , thailand , malaysia , and malaysia , also feel the effects of the rohingya ’s plight . far from moving to stem this humanitarian crisis , suu kyi ’s government has been aggravated . while suu kyi does not dominate the military , leading by a murderous crackdown , her government has blocked un agencies from delivering vitally important emergency supplies . the un population fund ( unfpa ) , the united nations refugee agency ( unhcr ) , and the children ’s fund ( unicef ) have all been forced to halt work in the affected areas . this represents a tragic departure for suu kyi , who previously won international acclaim – and the nobel peace prize – for her role in the fight for democracy in myanmar .
though eu-turkey relations currently are not at their best , dialogue between the two sides will have to go ahead with the eu in 2017 , not least owing to their common interests , which are based not just on economic interdependence , but also on the refugee crisis and on collective struggle against terrorist terrorism . european politics , meanwhile , will be consumed next year by the brexit negotiations . in march , the united kingdom will likely invoke article 50 of the treaty of lisbon , triggering the formal process of withdrawal from the eu . the call for an agreement that guarantees the well-being of the future eu-uk relationship . this will not be easy , with eu negotiators already setting a timeline for just 18 months .
just days later , after obama declared last october that malaysia was a model of “ diversity and tolerance , ” malaysian authorities denied muslims the right to use the word “ allah ” in practicing their own faiths – a decision condemned across much of the muslim world for its negative portrayal of islam . moreover , najib ’s government members endorse hudud , a sanctions class within sharia law that may imply strict limitations on muslims ’ right to choose how their beliefs are practice . according to american state department human-rights reports , curbs on religious freedoms included demolition of hindu temples , attacks of christian churches , and a ban on shia islam ’s practices to which some 15 % of the world ’s muslims adhere . likewise , by the pew research center , najib ’s government has “ very high ” restrictions on religious freedom . international press freedom measures and corruption expose persistent deficits , just as do the case .
there are not many human activities whose impact can reasonably be predicted decades , centuries , or even millennia , before . the fallout from nuclear waste is one ; human beings ’s contribution to global warming through greenhouse-gas emissions from burning fossil fuels is another . indeed , the latest intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) , stated in uncharacteristically strong terms , that sea levels are “ virtually certain ” to continue rising in coming centuries or millennia . moreover , the larger our emissions , the higher the sea sea levels are set up . but recent revelations about antarctica are very different .
addis ababa – africa bears the brunt of lives lost , economies destroyed , and relationships broken by terrorism . it is the continent where al-qaeda launched its war against the united states in 1998 , by bombing american embassies in nairobi , kenya , and dar es salaam , tanzania ; where boko haram kidnapped 276 nigerian schoolgirls in 2014 ; and where 147 students were killed in their slumber at kenya ’s garissa university in 2015 . while these attacks garner world attention , most people are far from realizing that , in the last five years alone , 33,000 people have died in terrorism-related violence across africa have died in the last five years alone . violent extremism and espousing groups threaten to reverse africa ’s development gains not only in the near term , but also over the decade to come . african countries are particularly vulnerable to violent ideologues , owing to prevalence of weak institutions and ungoverned territories in which extremist groups are able to germinate .
the first problem is china ’s economy , so dynamic , but so rickety underneath . the analyst chi lo lucidly presents a picture of macro success alongside micro default . the enormous rmb4 trillion ( $ 586 billion ) stimulus in november 2008 mostly poured into loss-making state-owned enterprises through directed bank lending , sustained china ’s growth in the face of a global recession . but , in an increasingly severe misallocation of capital , the resulting boom portfolios of bad loans were the first to be found , while excessive chinese household savings inflated real-estate bubbles in the first place . moreover , chi argues that the 2008 crisis shattered china ’s export-led growth model , owing to prolonged impairment of advanced-country demand .
moreover , the american insists that this does not contain ( as it did with the soviet union ) ; on the contrary , the economic rise of china has been facilitated by access to us markets , as has global markets , via american support for chinese accession to the world trade organization . on human rights , the us argues that there are really fundamental differences within the two countries ’ political traditions and current systems . but , in the american view , this vastly differs from an organized national strategy to understate and its institutions . for these reasons , the bilateral strategy gic-confidence deficit has grown . xi , to his credit , has advanced what he describes as the concept of “ a new type of great-power relationship , one ” that seeks to avoid what others conclude is the near-inevitability of a protracted conflict between rising powers ( china ) and established power ( america ) .
and there is little evidence that the corporate-tax burden actually does fall on employees rather than on capital . the nonpartisan american congressional budget office and the institute for taxation and economic policy , among others , have made clear that more than 80 % of the corporate tax ’s effects fall on shareholders , not workers . still , market liberals would argue that corporate taxes “ distort ” behavior and hamper wealth creation . but , at best , this is simplistic . for starters , tax competition among jurisdictions is rather different from competition among firms .
doctors are gods , but they increasingly play god by refusing to use life-extension techniques for patients and families wishing them , and are even willing to pay for those . in holland , no private medicine exists . the only recourse for dissatisfied patients is to leave the country or go to courts . european welfare states thus face a severe dilemma . no doubt , holland spends a substantial amount on caring for the old .
unfortunately , it is far short of clear that the chinese model for infrastructure development can be exported universally . china ’s powerful central government is overwhelms opposition from people displaced by new roads , bridges , and dams , and over many years , running roughshod over environmental concerns and workers ’ rights . parallels with the old former soviet union are striking . some developing countries in asia are working differently , for example . in democratic india , for example , it took eight years to rerebuild mumbai ’s airport , because courts forced the government to respect the squatters ’ rights on its outskirts .
and even if there are revenue to be earned because jobs can be gained from airports , businesses might be discouraged by the need to rely on long-term pricing agreements . falling into the us , too , is easy to fall into the tax trap as an route to bolstering aggregate demand . but congressional republicans may be insisting that the personal income tax cuts be paid for by limiting deductions that individuals are now using to reduce their tax bills . the tax plan put forward on behalf of republican speaker paul ryan , the speaker of the house of representatives , calls for eliminating all deductions other than those for charitable contributions and mortgage interest . that change would raise revenue equal to roughly 1 % of us gdp , enough to pay for the very substantial reductions in individual tax rates on a tax rate .
nairobi – african countries are often criticized for not meeting their environmental challenges . observers often cite habitat loss in the face of population growth , land degradation , and industrialization . and then there is the most frequent charge of all : that the increasing poaching threatens species like elephants and rhinos . in kenya , however , an innovative and extensive conservation project is underway . began at the aberdare mountain mountains in central kenya , the “ rhino ark , ” originally conceived to protect the highly endangered black rhino from the ravages of poachers , is supported by a very people who might resist it : indigenous communities in some of the countries with the most productive farming areas .
the convoluted logic behind this strategy is quite disturbing – and not only for the us , but for the global economy as well . there is nothing cyclical about the lingering aftershocks of the balance-sheet recession , which have now been evident for nearly five years . indeed , balance-sheet repairs hardly began for us households in recent decades . the personal-saving rate stood at a mere 3.7 % in august 2012 – up from 1.5 % at the peak of 2005 , but half the 7.5 % average recorded over the previous three decades of the twentieth century . furthermore , the debt overhang remains massive .
the european currencies crises of 1992 and 1993 , along with the increasingly recent chaotic monetizations elsewhere , show that a successful transition was far from guaranteed . a second early success was the view that by almost all measures of international use , the euro instantly became the world ’s second-largest global reserve currency . moreover , the desire to be admitted in the club led to a favorable reforms by many aspiring member countries , particularly the central and eastern european countries that subsequently joined the european union . more recently , entries on the “ success ” side of the ledger include the progress of some periphery countries , especially spain , reducing their previously uncompetitive unit labor costs . ecb president mario draghi deserves top marks for balancing germany ’s demand for fiscal discipline and the mediterranean need for accommodation .
if it is unlucky , the greek crisis comes to a head in the german election year ’s start , making all previous calculations moot , for , because notwithstanding germany ’s frustrations with the europeans , the electorate would punish severely those who allowed europe to default in the first place . europe ’s economy is slipping into severe , and , in all likelihood , a protracted recession , largely self-inflicted . while germany still attempts to banish the specter of hyperinflation with strict eurozone austerity measures , the eu is confronting the real threat of deflation , with potentially disastrous consequences . it is only an issue of time – no longer a great time – before any economic destabilization gives way to political instability . hungary , where democratic backsliding seems to be taking hold , provides the foretaste of a europe in which the eurozone crisis and deflation persist .
even today , thanks to a variety of sophisticated means , we can detect very small nuclear tests in remote locations . the treaty is also fair – it includes the same privileges and responsibilities for all of its parties . it sets a new norm for the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and verification treaty . the ctbt is needed because of the role that the ctbt is conducted in the development and improvement of nuclear weapons . such tests are also political symbols that are nowhere in a world determined to eliminate these abhorrent weapons of mass destruction .
us leaders need a degree of mastery of detail , like china ’s last premier zhu rongji , to whom the us can tell not only how they will get us from z to z , but can actually steer the us from going to b. looking around , us leaders like it seem to be an extinct species . or if they exist on all sides , dysfunctional political systems seem constrained . their ability to act is limited by their political environment . the best examples are american president barack obama , on whom so many hope rested – probably too many for any us leader .
today , palestinians are seeking statehood at a mere 22 % of territory , an issue that , until israel unilaterally established itself on areas far larger than those awarded by the un general assembly resolution 181 in 1947 . palestine ’s quest for statehood within the borders of june 3-4 or 1967 falls squarely within international law . the un security council settled in november that year to “ acquire territory by war ” is unacceptable . subsequent security council resolutions and international treaties upheld this principle . indeed , a palestinian state founded on the 1967 borders is precisely what us president barack obama has called for .
indeed , some argue that the inventiveness and internationalism of a networked world of interest , together with shared causes , is probably more resilient than one crammed into artificial – and increasingly constraining – the box of a nation-state . in that sense , the economic success of the us or china may well be those states ’ undoing , because middle-class political aspirations make current dysfunctional arrangements dysfunctional . conversely , we may find ourselves in a world whose eastern half is organized into strong authoritarian state structures with the west embracing post-state models of association . the question for international governance is how to provide a framework of institutions and rules in a world of competing organizational structures . the answer from politicians is depressingly predictable : in confronting a resurgent russia and china , this is not a time to abandon our own nation-states and their diplomacy to destiny .
the anti-corruption campaign reflects the ccp ’s apparent determination to rid itself against vested interests . at its 2013 third plenum , the ccp announced 60 goals for economic and governance reforms . many hope that these changes will help the ccp become more effective , reinforcing the market ’s role , and avoid the so-called middle-income trap that has ensnared many other emerging countries . however , party rhetoric reveals little about how these goals will achieve . indeed , there are worrying signs that the principal architect of the reform agenda , the respected free-market economist li keqiang , is already sidelined .
such flows are meant to be shut down by governments and financial institutions , and they are vital to reducing the flow of recruits . curtailing the flow of recruits is an even greater imperative . countries can do more to make it more difficult for individuals to leave behind iraq or syria ; a europe-wide watch list would help , for example . but nothing would have a greater impact than turkey ’s decision that it no longer lets itself be a conduit , and that it will enforce united nations security council resolution 2178 , which calls for stronger international cooperation on terrorism . a different component of any strategy must be to counter are appeals and propaganda .
political technocrats means secretly sponsoring fake politicians like bogdanov , establishing fake ngo ’s and “ patriotic ” youth movements like nashi ( ours ) to block a russian version of ukraine ’s orange revolution and mobilize voters against a carefully scripted “ enemy . ” the enemy was communists in 1996 ; in 1999-2000 the chechens ; in 2003-04 , “ oligarchs . ” now it is us – supposedly hostile west and the threat posed by “ color revolutions ” – to russia ’s hard-won stability . medvedev himself might find some or all this noxious , but russia now has entire industries of political manipulation that are hardly likely to vanish overnight . we also need an understanding of the mechanics of russian succession policy .
so , not only had our task been to re-reform the state , but society too -- its family values , its national traditions , and cultural heritage . our newly liberated societies must now learn the languages of our constituent constituent constituent parts as we learned a new economic and political language . through learning one another 's languages through cooperation based on shared values , common interests as well as historical ties , central europe demonstrated what spectacular achievements could be achieved . the visegrád group , cefta , the central european initiative produced a prosperous free trade system , and increasing the flow of investment between region countries . in a broader context , hungary 's re-integration into western institutional structures continues relentlessly unless and when the desired pace is achieved .
conservationists decided in 1988 to finance and build electrified fence in order to shield an aberdare national park bordering smallholder farms . the fence was designed to prevent intrusion from the human population and degradation of park ’s habitat . but it also protected farmers , whose crops were regularly devastated by marauding elephant and other wildlife . local farmers were welcomed the initiative that influenced the decision to expand the fence to surround the perimeter of aberdare ranges . the aberdare mountains , encompassing 2,000 square kilometers of indigenous forest , and vital water catchment areas , along with national park , are vitally important to kenya .
these protests have two major causes , and at least in many cases , to be seen . first , social inequality has grown unabated in the west in a quarter-century , owing partly to the disappearance of the soviet union , and , with it , it was the threat of expansionist communism . the specter of revolution had forced western elites to take advantage of the state ’s power to redistribute wealth and nurture the growth of loyal middle classes . but , when communism collapsed in its eurasian heartland , the very west ’s rich , believing that they had nothing more to fear , pressed them to roll back the welfare state , causing inequality to soar rapidly . this was bearable , as was the overall pie , as it expanded in 2007 , but the 2008 global financial crisis ended this century .
in 1998 , the un estimated that the total value of illicit drug trade at $ 400 billion , or 7 % of world trade in the us . critics say that the figure is only half that – a remarkable sum . colombia today is much worse than chicago under al capone , the us and the united nations . so , too , are other latin american , caribbean , and asian countries . indeed , drug prohibition effectively imposes taxes on illicit drugs , which enforced governments and collected those willing to violate us laws .
tatiana insisted that construction was starting in 1974 a politically correct date after which “ clean labor ” had been employed . but the railway ’s first section – initiated , by stalin , into offering the “ eastern route ” that went farther away from the chinese border – was built by forced labor , involving russian inmates and german inmates at war herded together in so-called bamlags now ghost towns . even when volunteer were used , there were nowhere near as enthusiastic as official account claims to them . lacking adequate housing and electricity , few reenlisted and many deserted before completing the term . nonetheless , bremetic v-era bam construction showed what dying soviet systems were still capable of achieving .
and with support at around 26-29 % , italy remains popular despite its poor performance running the city council of rome . the problem for m5s is that , owing to its new electoral rule , italy will have to win an roughly 40 % of gdp in order to secure a parliamentary majority . while proportional representation will determine two-thirds of the seats in the lower house , one-third will be decided by first-past-the-post voting in single member constituencies , where m5s will likely lose out , because it is neither willing nor able to form the electoral alliances needed to secure majorities . in fact , the party grouping that benefits the most from the current electoral system will be its only one that managed to forge a pre-election pact with other parties : the berlusconi-led center right . as he demonstrated with his electoral victories in 1994 , 2001 , and 2008 , berlusconi ’s greatest strength has invariably been the formation of coalitions .
the upa ’s critics have long argued that unsustainably low , state-dictated passenger fare and freight charges for railway services ( upa ) – which can not cover the costs of maintenance to ensure trains and tracks safety – much less enable expansion and improvement of service delivery – reflected the government ’s inability to make tough decisions . it is true that coalition politics prevented decisive action with railway minister summarily dismissed by his own party leader – which upa was politically unable to confront – after attempting to raise fares . but , in the pre-election interim budget , upa government finally has some bullet , proposing a 14.2 % increase in rail fares and a 6.5 % hike on freight rates . in india ’s code of political conduct , budget changes were deferred until the election last may . soon after taking office , the modi government announced its intention to implement price increases , even though officials made sure to emphasize that they merely follow through the current mandate .
under a approved bill , muslim immigrants may be declared illegal , and even illegal . coupled with the government ’s plan to establish even more problematic national register of citizens , authorities will be able to disenfranchise any indian muslim who has been unable or willing to prove its provenance in india . many indians , especially the poor , lack documentary evidence of when and where they were foreign-born ; even birth certificates have become widespread only in recent decades . whereas non-muslims , thanks to the approved bill , would receive free passage , similarly undocumented muslims would suddenly bear the onus for demonstrating that they are indian . this marks a breathtaking departure from seven decades of practice in managing the astonishing level of cultural diversity .
having just emerged from deep recessions , financial disruptions could easily cause europe to slide back into recession , particularly given the european economy ’s close connections to russia via trade and energy . compounding the problem , nobody really understands the precise connections among russian and european institutions and markets . the collapse of ltcm in 1998 was entirely unexpected . is europe prepared to deal with a similar inability of an important financial institution ? there is no targeted , temporary , or fully credible financial sanctions in russia .
gdp has nearly tripled in the last 20 years , but , with real wages rising at less than half this rate , growth has become decoupled from the fate of ordinary citizens . more than half of middle-income households spend more per month than they earn . signs of social distress multiplying . south korea ’s divorce rate doubled , fertility rates fell to its fourth lowest among the advanced economies , and suicide rates in the oecd are highest . south korea is troubled for two key reasons .
this may imply eliminating shadowy “ tax havens , ” tapping phone lines , and identifying individuals as highly dangerous . police actions have to be merciless , even if that means more checks and surveillance . it is precisely to prevent a collective security fear that we need to alter the equilibrium between security and freedom from emerging . while the european union lags behind the united states in terms of conventional arms , its capacity for fighting terrorism is probably higher . for historical reasons , europeans benefit from a political maturity that allowed it to avoid bush ’s manichean worldview , which has merely reinforced , rather than undermined , enemy 's fanaticism .
ross should read mehrsa baradaran informative book how other half of the banks are , reflecting on the high cost of credit for low-income families . or he could just ask mick mulvaney , the acting white house chief of staff . whereas in the house of representatives , mulvaney received big donations from the payday loan industry , making most of its profits from borrowing at high interest rates to those with no alternative when cash is desperately needed . mulvaney has also devoted considerable time to weakening the safeguards that the consumer financial protection bureau previously attempted to implement some of the industry ’s worst abuses . as a government shutdown lengthened , payday lenders ’ stock prices rose .
seoul – the vast revolution in military affairs is occurring around east asia . the latest signs are chinese president xi jinping ’s purge of general xu catherine ashton , the politburo ’s former member and former vice-chairman of the central military commission , on corruption charges , and japan ’s “ reinterpretation ” of articles 9 of its constitution to authorize the country to offer military assistance to its allies . despite the escalating regional tensions fueling these movements , china ’s relationship with its neighbors and the united states is not fated to lead to direct confrontation . but the relentless march of new efforts to meet the perceived “ china threat , ” will demand that the region ’s political leaders , including the chinese , address their disputes over new and creative ways if that outcome is to be avoided . more broadly , there are three channels for promoting international peace : deeper economic interdependence , democracy promotion , and the construction of international institutions .
new haven – the severity of the global financial crisis that we have seen over the past two years must do with a fundamental source of banking instability , one that is possible and must design out of existence . to do this , we must advance our financial technology state in the future . in severe financial crisis , banks find that the declining market value of many of their assets leaves them short on capital . they can not raise a lot more capital during a crisis ; so , to restore capital adequacy , they stop making new loans and call in their outstanding loans , thereby throwing entire economies – if not a whole global economy – into a tailspin . this problem is rather technical in nature because its solutions exist .
yet , enjoying the massive subsidy of moscow , kadyrov rebuilt grozny and provided it with some security . kadyrov , too , has put his red into the spiritual aspirations of the chechen majority . he has rejected wahhabism – the ideological framework of jihadists . nonetheless , he maintained that islam is an essential part of the chechen tradition , and has presented himself as leader who is fully understanding this . so he has encouraged the code of islamic dress and built an enormous mosque – one of the greatest if not the greatest in europe .
village housing must be brought to a massive level . roads , airports , and communication systems also need to be revitalized when commerce is to rebuild . the educational system needs to be rebuilt almost from scratch , and , with so many women anxious to return to education , a revived education system will also help afghanistan ’s democratic politicians gain a powerful lobby of workers . special attention should be devoted to elementary schools and libraries outside the cities . afghanistan poses special difficulties in reconstruction , because it is not a society with a powerful political center .
what i just described is no mere hypothetical . in fact , in a world of political scientists , it is a capsule depiction of the united states federal reserve and the european central bank . one popular explanation for the two banks ’ various approaches is that they stem from their societies ’ respective historical experiences . the banks ’ institutional personalities reflect the role of collective memory in shaping how officials conceptualize the problems that they face . a great depression of the 1930s , when the fed stood idly by as the economy collapsed , is the molding event seared into the awareness of every american central banker .
rather than one of his new york times commentaries in the first half of 2013 , when “ austerian ” deficit-cutting measures took effect , forecast a major reduction in unemployment , or recovery from economic growth to brisk rates . on the contrary , “ the disastrous turn toward austerity devastated millions of jobs and shattered many more lives ” he argued , with the bush administration exposing americans to “ the imminent threat of severe economic damage from short-term spending cuts . ” as a result , “ full recovery looks like a very long way off , ” he warned . “ and i am starting to worry that it may never happen . ” i raise all this , because krugman took a victory lap in his end-of-2014 column on “ the obama recovery . ”
even though it runs into trouble , it probably is not the best time to initiate a new car company , either . yet , while the market for new cars has slowed dramatically , it could be a good time to start a business-as-usual replacing gasoline engines with electric ones . the group ’s initiative , led by räsänen , is called ecars – now ! a small operation in finland , this is less a company than a role model to companies that the team hopes to spring up globally . borrowing from open-software movements , räsänen and his colleagues want to create the thinking and basic designs that free , encouraging lots of corporations around the world to implement it locally .
but i do think that there is more wishful thinking than hardheaded logic among those calling for a “ color revolution . ” consider , for example , that no one has ever developed a precise road to measure whether or not to what extent a government has been effective . if a criteria of effectiveness are the ability to achieve all of society ’s objectives , we probably will never find such a thing , either . the united states , with a government that can hardly be described as weak , bungled war in iraq , and the aftermath of hurricane katrina . compared with these failures , vladimir putin ’s achievements in chechnya look like the height of success .
these – and other streams of funding – helped african researchers to develop drought-resistant crops , produce vaccines for infectious diseases like ebola , and expand opportunities for scientific and technological education . unfortunately , many african governments lack the resources to fund programs capable of building on those gains . simply put , a new , more collaborative approach to african science has a pressing role to do business . africa ’s leaders pooled their science resources before . in 2003 , africa ’s african union and the new partnership for africa development initiated the continent-wide strategy of development ( mdc ) to develop and use science and technology to bring the continent ’s socioeconomic transformation and integration into the world economy . ”
london – five years after the collapse of the bank of america ’s investment bank lehman brothers , the world has not yet addressed what was essentially the causes of an subsequent financial crisis – excess indebtedness . and this is why the economic recovery has been slower than anyone expected ( in some countries it has not come at all , too ) , and the rest of the world has continued to slow . most economists , central bankers , and regulators not only failed to foresee this crisis ; they also believed that financial stability was assured so long as inflation was low and stable . and , once the immediate crisis was contained , we failed to foresee how painful the effects would be . official forecasts in the spring 2009 anticipated neither the slow recovery nor the initial crisis , which had basically confined to the united states and the united kingdom , would soon fuel knock-on crises in the eurozone .
a big difference is that the uk will be losing its vote at the table . for britons in the “ remain ” camp , such a transition will allow for the uk to stay within the eu in all but name . and for some of these in the “ leave ” camp , it is a path to an exit without falling off a cliff edge . a third agreement in phase two will center around a roadmap for the uk-eu relationship after 2021 . this will not be a free-trade arrangement , but rather a political declaration about where both sides hope to end in the eu .
the islamic world is riven by disputes among arab and non-arab , sunni , and shia extremists and theological moderates . al qaeda ’s agenda comes as much in creating a new islamic caliphate as it aims to waging jihad against the west . fourth , europeans find it hard to stomach traditional islamic attitudes towards , say , women or homosexuals . muslims are finding it hard to see how we can believe that our societies are civilized when pornography and drunkenness are openly displayed . to the extent that europeans are christian at all levels , we see religion as an individual ’s relation with its or her god ; muslims see that it as a organizing social principle .
yanukovych was always the kremlin ’s ally . indeed , his 2010 election marked the end of ukraine ’s pro-european orange revolution , which had defeated his attempt to steal the 2004 presidential election , and to keep ukraine in the russia-ukraine camp at the hands of the russian border . so why did the eu press for an association agreement with the eu , without offering ukraine anything comparable to what russia offered ? the answer is possible in europe ’s relationship with russia . with the collapse of the soviet union , it was not only because russia lost status as a world power ; within europe , it has been forced into a withdrawal from the border it has extended westward since peter the great , ultimately to the elites and thuringia .
what is needed to achieve high performance in a way that is essentially productive change , which i call economic dynamism . for employees to flourish , they must be imbedded in stimulating a workplace , with new problems to solve , more difficult tasks that must be mastered , added skill strive for . less obviously , a country does not want misguided or pointless change ; it wants investment that looks like productive sectors . the late 1990s produced evidence that low dynamism was tied to weak economic performance , especially low prosperity .
first , because most technology-based monopoly power does not violate existing antitrust laws , regulation will require new measures to weaken monopolies . new concepts of public interest are also needed to regulate new channels of public information such as social-networking systems . second , standard opinion about business income and wealth taxation will have to be tailored to account for it by firms ’ monopolization power . and , third , laws designed to protect private information should be reevaluated to ensure that it is unable to profit from exploiting and manipulating it . above all , the public needs to develop a deeper understanding of the economic effects of it , particularly how technologies that have improved livelihoods in the way that so many enriching lives of so few .
geneva – with france launching its third-largest “ humanitarian ” military operation as many years ago , the central african republic of interventionism – something seemed discredited this time , after america ’s invasion of iraq seemed to have returned as an accepted norm in international affairs . true , decades of relentless intervention have shifted the terms of the debate , with the recent operations justified by their ability rather than merit . to understand how this shift has occurred is to see why , in more cases than not , such interventions have failed to achieve their goals . as france ’s recent actions demonstrate , intervention today requires nothing more than a unilateral decree of humanitarian or counter-terrorism objectives ; an atmosphere of urgency ; and ambiguous attachment to ongoing united nations deliberations is likely to be . a military operational might also refer to the un security council , but it was only after the council ’s decision can no longer make a meaningful difference to events on the ground .
he argues that economists have become blind to catastrophic macro failures because they mistook beauty or elegance theoretical models of truth . both coase and krugman bemoan the neglect of his occupation ’s patrimony – a tradition dating at least to adam smith – that valued grand , unifying theories of political economics and moral philosophy . a contemporary obsession with reductionist and mechanical models appears to be driven by the profession from theory toward ideology , putting it out of touch with the real economy . simplicity and elegance of micro and macro models make them useful in explaining both the price mechanism and the balance or imbalances of key aggregate economic variables . but both models are not capable of describing or analyzing the actual behavior of key market participants .
after all , such no-strings-attached databases simply facilitate sharing ; they allow stealing . a question of how to regulate access to genetic sequence data now cropping up in the international conversation is being asked , including by the world health organization and the organization for food and agriculture . perhaps the most important forum for such debates comes from the conference of parties to the convention on biological diversity , the major treaty regulating access to biodiversity . the next meeting ( cop 13 ) will take place in cancún , mexico , early december . participants at cop 13 need to focus on the need to protect resource providers ' rights .
demand growth in an environment that would be seen in any prior decades would suddenly be desperately insufficient ; bush is being blamed ( with some justice ) on slack labor markets that have resulted . but , for all but bush -- and those left unemployed by a lag of demand - this is an extraordinary opportunity . the remarkable boosts productivity that were within america 's grasp will ultimately result in accelerating growth in real gains and real wages if only american policymakers resist the temptation to pursue politically expedient but economically damaging measures to " preserve " output and employment . just as the world 's leaderless economy , america faces the hard work to ensure growth , for it must create -- not only copy and adapt -- new technologies , better forms of capital and more productive entrepreneurial organizations . if america can grow as fast as it is now , that is very good news for other , less-developed economies , particularly since one powerful effect of continuing technology revolutions in computers and communications is to make it much more easier to participate in a globalized division of labor now centered in
to avoid another public backlash , these platforms need to make us serve not only as consumers , but also as entrepreneurs , workers , and citizens alike . at a time of unprecedented global challenges – including climate change and high levels of inequality – this must include the use of platform leadership ’s unprecedented power to catalyze global-scale solutions . earlier this year , the artificial-meat producer beyond meat celebrated a rapturous stock-market debut . rather than target meeting rising meat demand by scaling up factory-farming operations , as companies did in the past , it – and similar companies , such as impossible foods – are working to help reduce overall meat consumption , the leading drivers of climate change . that is propelling the latest shift in corporate acquiholdership , focused not only on scaling up more wisely , but also on becoming wiser about what to scale .
ontario -- this december , trade ministers from around the world will converge in buenos aires to the world trade organisation ’s 11th ministerial conference . with the united states historically having guided the world toward trade liberalization , now actively stoking trade tensions , the meeting is set to be unlike any other . the wto ministerial gatherings are never easy ; indeed , they are not the only options . some kind of agreement is usually brought to the table , but only at the last minute , and its language is often vague . this time , however , the outcome could be even more disappointing , with delegates unable even to reach a symbolic agreement that they could tout with an aggressive marketing campaign .
poland introduced such a law in 1998 . similar norms exist in the czech republic , hungary , latvia and lithuania . by obscuring the role played by local populations in both nazi and communist crime , such laws help to advance nationalist narratives that can prove extremely handy to politicians seeking to win popular support . the pis , for one , has won substantial electoral support , thanks partly to its exploitation of past tragedies for political ends . there are more extreme cases in france .
instead , the reform proposals have opted for a mix of higher capital requirements on leading banks and the pre-funding of deposit insurance , via a special levy on banks . little appetite for proposals to vary pro-cyclically . this would enable capital buffers to be created in good years , which could then drag down in the wrong years . admittedly , there are difficulties with all proposals to restrict the scope of “ risky ” banking , especially the world economy with free capital mobility in the long term . as is often pointed out , unless banking regulations are identical across borders , there is plenty of scope for “ regulatory arbitrage . ”
new york – america ’s health-care reform act , and the affordable care act ’s signature 2010 health-care reform , has succeeded in expanding health-insurance coverage to the millions of americans who would not otherwise have it . and , contrary to critics ’ warnings , it does n’t push health-care costs up ; in fact , there is some hope that the cost curve is finally bending downward . but whether “ obamacare ” succeeds in curbing prohibitively high health-care costs is by no means assured . that will depend on the obama administration ’s other policies , especially in an area that might seem unrelated : the united states ’ ongoing debate with india over intellectual property . and here , obama seems determined to undermine his own signature reform , owing to pressure from the mighty american pharmaceutical lobby .
likewise , cutting fiscal support ( via government-channeled bank lending ) to zombie firms would free up fiscal capacity , enabling the resources to redirect resources into new sectors that facilitate services and urban employment ; and that would exacerbate – at least at first – today ’s demand shortfall . slashing the state sector abruptly and expecting that it achieve transformation through austerity is not the way forward . economic historians , notably michael a. bernstein in his recent study of the great depression in the united states , show convincingly that a transition economy requires strong aggregate demand for the pull of resources into new sectors . if both the economy ’s old and new sectors get into slump , the formation of capital will sputter , investment in upgrading human capital will fall , and structural adjustments will stall . robust aggregate demand is always essential to successful transformation .
london – how radically will digital currency change our methods of exchange and the way we think about money ? with innovation in the digital payments barreling ahead , now these questions are commanding the world economic forum ’s attention , as well as other international institutions . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
bangalore – us secretary of state john kerry ’s valiant effort to rescue the israeli-palestinian peace process is about to end failure . though achieving a substantive peace settlement has always been a pipe dream , that latest disappointment will make the united states incapable of sustaining even the façade of the “ peace process ” that has been all of this process , and no peace . and that might not be this kind of bad thing . the negotiations are failing for a few reasons , beginning with israel ’s continuing colonization of lands occupied in 1967 , despite opposition from the international community , including the united states . if anything , israel has accelerated settlement construction since the latest round of talks began , while escalating its demands – especially regarding israeli troops ’ stationing of israeli forces in jordan valley .
her request has been refused , as was her earlier plea in 2006 , to suspend her sentence until her two small sons reached the age of 14 - an request she was entitled to make under russian law . vasily aleksanyan was the executive vice president of yukos , and , as a lawyer , defended khodorkovsky and his partner , platon lebedev , after their arrest in 2003 . he then disbarred , and was arrested on the occasion in april 2006 . by that time , aleksanyan was critically ill with aids for who had been denied treatment . in december 2008 , the moscow city justice ( moscow city court ) endorsed its release on bail out the 50 million rubles ( some $ 1,775,000 at this time ) .
moreover , they must happen by the end of the year , in order to prevent the further harm from major tariff hikes now scheduled to take effect on december 15 . that timeline calls for both sides to launch symbolic and substantive steps immediately . as a first step , china ought to propose an agreement using the same text as the previous 150-page draft , but with revisions to meet its three “ red lines . ” specifically , china should strip american provisions to sustain us tariff hikes after the agreement is signed and to unilaterally impose tariffs if the us concludes that it does not honor china . and it should add to the commitment that china will implement the agreement in the form of its “ consistent constitutional , legislative , and regulatory processes . ”
princeton – most of today ’s advanced economies became what they traveled by traveling the well-worn route of industrialization . the progression of manufacturing industries – textiles , steel , automobiles – emerged from the ashes of traditional artificiality and guild systems , transforming agrarian societies in urban areas . peasants became factory workers , a process underpinned not only by unprecedented economic productivity gains , but also by a wholesale revolution in the social and political organization . the labor movement led to mass politics , and in the end to political democracy . over time , manufacturing ceded its place to services .
and that shift would occur at an era of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
and , of course , this mean is not included in the fukushima disaster ; it is not . indeed , when compared with other sources of energy , the world ’s nuclear power ranks higher than the oil , coal , and natural-gas systems with fatalities , second-only hydroelectric dams . there have been 57 accidents since the chernobyl disaster of 1986 . while only a few fatalities have occurred , those who collectively kill more people than have died in a commercial american airline accidents since 1982 . another nuclear-power accident index – this one including costs far beyond death and property damage , such as injured or irradiated workers and malfunctions , that have not resulted in shutdowns or leaks – documented 956 incidents , from 1942 to 2007 .
this may no longer be that easy , once america is no longer viewed as a reliable protector and fear of china turns into a panic . unlike some of her predecessors as chancellor , merkel , who grew up in east germany , is wary of russia ’s strategic designs . there is little doubt that both china and russia will benefit , at least in the short run , from america ’s abdication of us leadership . some people no too bothered by the fact that this is . russia is closer to berlin or even paris to the us than washington or new york .
but , if an agreement is negotiated well , the outcome yields significantly larger benefits than cost . and that would have been the case with the colombian accord , which addresses a vast array of social and economic issues , including problems affecting indigenous communities , gender equality , gay rights , and displaced millions more than a half-century of combat . likewise , the deal included an historic land-reform program . for uribe and his opposition allies , the main objection to the deal concerns how it addresses the question of transitional justice . negotiators opted that the unconditional application of justice would be impossible .
the us , for example , was mistaken to invade iraq in 2003 , but was right to allied with the fight against isis and rescue yazidis from the massacre . it was right to attack mosul ’s occupied city , but it was wrong to downtown the city to dust . it was also wrong to call for the overthrow of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , owing to us forces opposed assad lacking the necessary popular backing , with the us prepared not to help it win that support . on the other hand , helping the syrian kurds were a good idea , for they were effective combatants with strong us support from their own people ; and they would probably not survive under an isis caliphate in the future . elsewhere , south korean and japanese defenses are right to strengthen , but clearly wrong to threaten a nuclear war .
trouble began at the end of the cold war , when the collapse of the bankrupt former communist ideology was reinterpreted as the triumph of the market . as communism was discarded , so was the concept of the state as an agent around which our collective interests and ambitions could be organized . the individual became the ultimate agent of change – an individual conceived as the kind of rational actor that populates economists ’ models . such an individual ’s identity arises not from the interest of class or other sociological traits , but from the logic of the market , which dictated maximization of self-interest , whether as a producer , a consumer , or voter . indeed , economics , in turn , was placed on the pedestal , and enshrined in institutions like central banks and competition authorities , which were intentionally separate and made independent from politics .
madrid – june ’s turkish general election sent a powerful message : turkey ’s democracy remains intact . indeed , while there were some grievances about transparency during the campaign process , democracy prevailed , with an stunning 86 % of eligible voters turning out – rate that rarely sees in europe . the rest of the world – and especially the european union – should take note . with their votes , turkey ’s citizens denied the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) its absolute majority , which it needed to amend the constitution . in addition , by giving the people ’s democratic party ( hdp ) – which brings down the country ’s long-marginalized kurdish minority and other groups – over 10 % of the vote , it allowed the party to enter parliament for the first time , with representation throughout the country , not just in kurd-majority areas .
if an application succeeds , a refugee has the right to bring together its or her family members like well . often , arab families send their minors to germany in the not-unjustified hope of obtaining a right for other family members to follow later . germany will have to deal with the consequences of this refugee wave for years to come . in order to distribute the burden more equitably , germany has tried to have a european quota system , which has instituted allocate applicant candidates among eu member countries . but germany ’s eu partners have rejected this as “ moral imperialism . ”
washington , dc – anyone watching the united states ’s presidential race needs to see that domestic opinion polls do not give a accurate picture to how the election could spin out . owing to america ’s electoral college , it ’s not who wins the most votes nationwide that matters , ultimately , but who wins in which states . each state is given some votes in the electoral college , depending on the size of its population . with an electoral college threshold exceeding 270 electoral votes , the candidate crossing the presidential college , winning the presidency . in nearly any state , a candidate who wins a 50.1 % popular vote is awarded 100 % of its electoral vote .
new york – the prospect that the american federal reserve will begin exiting its zero policy rate later this year fueled growing fears of renewed volatility in emerging economies ’ currencies , bond prices , and stock markets . the concern is understandable : when the fed signaled in 2013 that its quantitative-easing policy was coming to an end ( qe ) came to an end in 2013 , the ensuing “ taper tantrum ” sent shockwaves through many emerging countries ’ financial markets and economies . indeed , rising interest rates in the united states and the ensuing surge in the value of the us dollar could , it has become feared , wreak havoc between emerging markets , us financial institutions , corporations , and even households in the future . for all of the time , because they have borrowed trillions of dollars in us dollars in the last few years , they will now face an increase in the real local-currency value of those debts , while rising american rates will push emerging markets ’ own domestic interest rates higher , driving debt-service costs further up . but , though the prospect of raising interest
faced with american unilateralism , he failed to promote realistic multilateral solutions . on the contrary , despite being right about iraq , chirac became isolated ; isolation that had grown because he was also failed to re-establish satisfactory relations with president bush . indeed , under chirac , france appears increasingly arrogant , a nation convinced of the righteousness of its views and the universality of its model -- very accusations so often levelled against george w. bush 's america . chirac compounded his errors over iraq in his new approach to the european commission . on the old commission headed by romano prodi , france powerfully represented itself , with pascal lamy holding the eu trade portfolio .
and the expanding global population – set to reach over 9.5 billion by 2050 – will put strain on water resources further . urgent action is essential to ensure access to secure , affordable , and affordable water and sanitation for all . first , drastic improvements in water-related services – including both supply and sanitation , irrigation , and drainage , energy , and ecological facilities – are necessary to improve health outcomes and enable more people to escape poverty . governments should take the lead in ensuring prudent stewardship and the sustainable use of scarce water resources . water-intensive food and energy production – among others – relies on uninterrupted supply .
while iran ’s leaders have often downplayed the impact of sanctions , president mahmoud ahmadinejad has recently cited them as the primary culprit behind iran ’s economic turmoil . but iran faced similar economic difficulties before – in the 1980 ’s , its oil exports fell significantly amid the country ’s eight-year war with iraq , and in 1986-2000 , global oil prices were extraordinarily low – and handled them comparatively well . four factors made the oil embargo particularly unbearable today . first , prohibiting oil exports is more painful when world oil prices continue to climb . ahmadinejad benefited from massive oil-price increases , resulting in unprecedented earnings .
not only has iran developed its nuclear capabilities while a party to the npt , the israelis will be saying , but has also imposed israel ’s destruction high on its agendas . israel ’s nuclear deterrence is its ultimate defense against an existential threat . across-the-board nuclear equality can ultimately only boost iran ’s nuclear claims . india and pakistan , unlike israel , have been committed to a strategy for nuclear opacity , both see themselves as nuclear-armed states and want a world to accept that status . moreover , israel never tested a nuclear weapon , and has unequivocally embraced a group of nuclear suppliers ( nsg ) guidelines that seeks to stem proliferation through the control of its nuclear exports . israel expects the obama administration not only to appreciate the unique context of its ambiguous nuclear status , but also recognizes that it can not be forthcoming at assuring its neighbors or the rest of the world regarding its nuclear program unless the middle east political environment changes in radically positive ways .
whatever the ultimate economic effects of china ’s initial modest move toward floating its currency , one must admire its strategic brilliance . the genius of china ’s mini-move ( allowing the yuan to rise to 2 % against the dollar ) is that nobody can tell when or what happens next . protectionists in the united states and europe have been itching to slap huge punitive us tariffs on chinese goods . they want to keep bathing in news coverage , but if they push their china-bashing too far and too fast , protectionists can see themselves as hindering delicate behind-the-scenes negotiations . but not one knows whether china ’s child step is the beginning of something far bigger , as the china authorities hint on one day and denied another .
here , too , it is obama who is especially likely that hollande has no intention of bringing sweeping change . on the other hand , his intention will emerge as a robust and unsurprising partner . hollande is unlikely to be less friendly with america than sarkozy has , considered many to be france ’s most pro-us president . hollande backed military strikes in libya in 2011 and joined in condemning syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime . one of his close political allies recently declared that he was intended to endorse the united nations security council to authorize military intervention in syria , france “ might envision ” participating in this effort .
deflation -- steady ongoing declines in prices -- gave firms and consumers powerful incentives to cut expenditures and hoard cash . it reduced corporate and banks ’ ability to service their debt and might trigger a chain of big bankruptcies , which would devastate confidence in the financial system , provide further hoard incentives . such strong hoard incentives , rather than spend , can keep demand low and fall , and high unemployment and rising for much longer than even the most laissez-faire-oriented politician , or economist , ever dare to contemplate . hence , keynesian solutions : use monetary policies ( lower interest rates ) and fiscal policy ( expanded government spending and cut taxes ) to keep the economy from ever on the precipice where deflation becomes possible . yet if this is an issue solved more than fifty years ago , why is the haunting us now ?
and of the 50 million children who live outside their own countries , or have been internally displaced , more than half have forcibly uprooted them , and facing new threats to their livelihoods and well-being . millions of children are undernourished and out of school ; millions have witnessed unspeakable brutality ; and millions are threatened with exploitation , abuse , and , worse , the worst of them . this is not rhetoric ; it is reality . the united nations – with the support of countries such as sweden and by working through a globally coordinated humanitarian-response system comprising unicef – has been alleviating suffering whenever and wherever it can . but the scale and complexity of cascading crises are testing that system as never before .
to that end , a coalition of african countries , supported by the united nations economic commission ( ipcc ) for africa , and a new climate economy , is working to facilitate meaningful , coordinated action that puts the entire continent onto a more inclusive and sustainable growth path . partnerships with national finance and planning ministers , relevant development-finance institutions , and the private sector support this process . overcoming the formidable challenge that climate change poses to africa will depend on moments of collective focus and clarity . next month ’s un climate summit , with countries commit to steps toward their emissions-reduction targets below the 2015 paris climate agreement , should give rise to net-zero emissions by mid-century . given their heightened vulnerability , african countries have every incentive to set the bar high , thereby putting pressure to rest to ramp up their own contributions .
rejecting the european union ’s constitutional treaty through french and dutch voters was , by all accounts , more a rejection of unregulated globalization than it has been a rejection of europe . widespread instability in social relations – most notably , but not only – of employment becomes intolerable to a growing segment of the population in many advanced countries , not just in europe . and there can be no stable economic order – at least not in democratic countries – as electorates reject its underpinnings . after world war ii , capitalism could be rebuilt because it buttressed three necessary types of regulation : social security , which served as the principal stabilizer , at least in advanced countries , ; keynesian tools to fight domestic cyclical downturns ; and a universal , high-wage politics aimed at stimulating general consumption without which the genius of capitalism – mass production – does not work . but realignment of the rich , developed countries around monetarist policies promoted by economists , like milton friedman , which began around 1970 , broke with all this .
at the same time , in age of internet rumors and fake news , today ’s world can look a little unmoored from history . that might create some sense of actual risk , but it is not true that inflation targeting has other effects . inflation targeting has other effects too much that central bankers ’ minds appear more . in his influential 1998 book inflation targeting , ben bernanke and his co-authors advising policymakers to announce a target inflation rate for being , because it “ communicates ” the central bank ’s intentions , “ that would reduce uncertainty ” . the announced rate should be substantially positive , they wrote , because , if officials attempted to get it near zero , any mistake could trigger deflation , which “ could risk the financial system and precipitate economic contraction . ”
berkeley – with its ambitious manufactured strategy in china 2025 , china made clear its goal of securing global economic leadership in advanced tech industries . this places the point in direct competition with the united states – which is currently waging in those industries – in what is emerging as an undeclared but intensifying cold war over technologies with both commercial and military applications . with its investment to such dual-use technologies , china is seeking more than to compete commercially with the us ; it is also seeking greater military and geopolitical power . and it has deployed a wide array of methods – including soft intellectual property ( ip ) protections , technology transfer as a status condition for joint ventures with chinese partners , avoidance of export controls , and regulatory harassment – to acquire such technologies from the us and other trading partners . for a long time , chinese intentions and practices have been an irritant in sino-american relations .
the berlin wall fell , bringing germany ’s reunification , and yugoslavia apart . soon after , slovakia ’s own “ velvet divorce ” gave rise to the czech republic and slovakia , which – combined with other central and eastern european countries ( including hungary and poland ) – then anchored itself firmly in the west by joining nato and the eu . today , a trade war would damage all economies . yet the us – which is relatively less dependent on foreign markets – possesses deeper domestic markets , and tends to be more economically resilient than any other country – would do better than most others in a contracting world economy . chinese financial markets have already endured , while those within the us held its own .
the treaty would promote stability in the irish economy and contribute to the stabilizing of the euro , our currency . it would boost confidence in ireland , and allow the eu to increase inward foreign direct investment flows . ratification would also give the us guaranteed access to funding from the european stability mechanism ( esm ) , we should ever take this approach . the esm is ireland ’s insurance policy as we work out of the way out of the bailout program with the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the ecb , and the international monetary fund ) and return to markets . most importantly , the fiscal treaty promises to ensure the responsible budgeting across the eurozone .
in europe , legislation to protect personal data is not comprehensive , with much of the rest lacking even rudimentary safeguards . after exploring this issue with legislators in several other countries over the past few months , it has become abundantly clear that many have no full grasp of the myriad issues needed to consider . it is a difficult topic to tackle , and doing so is hindered by lobbying efforts and incomplete information . in the short term , young companies should view ethics not as marketing gimmick , but as core concerns . all organizations should invest in ethics officers or some kind of review process involving people who can be evaluated of all the implications of a great-sounding idea .
the young at shahbag are mainly urban , educated , and middle class ; hifazat derives support mainly from the rural poor . the traditional versus modern , urban versus rural , intellectuals versus the antecanantry : those divisions are the stuff of political cliché . but everywhere too often , clichés become established because they are true . bangladeshi government sympathies go closer to the shahbag protestant shahbag than to hifazat counter-demonstrators . but they must navigate a difficult path , because , in the face of the current crisis , both points of view have significant public support .
the actual bombshell , however , was the sudden realization of the threat posed by the digital currencies of the existing monetary system – not at some later date – but right now . cryptocurrencies were around a decade ago , but none has been widely adopted to challenge the existing order . with the potential to mobilize more than two billion monthly active users , facebook could change that . now that the company has thrown down gauntlet , governments should use the opportunity to advance a form of digital currency that serves the public good . even the staunchest defenders of the current monetary system will admit that it does not work equally well for everyone .
before i became soviet leader in 1985 , relations among cold war superpowers were hit rock bottom . reagan and i was able , and nonetheless , to create a reservoir of constructive spirit through constant outreach and face-to-face interaction . what seems to lack today are the leaders with the boldness and vision to build the confidence needed to reintroduce nuclear disarmament as the centerpiece of a peaceful global order . economic constraints and the chernobyl disaster helped spur action in the us . why has the great recession and the catastrophic meltdown at the fukushima daiichi plant in japan not elicited a similar response today ?
august is the traditional month that parliaments recess for summer , when they are the traditional month of last summer . it offers a moment to examine why they are so enfeebled , and why they are so enfeebled . throughout europe , it is not only british prime minister tony blair , who is accused of " presidentialism " nowadays . germany 's chancellor gerhard schröder faces the same accusation in the current german election campaign . prime minister silvio berlusconi of italy , indeed , has little to say even being labeled prime minister .
first , the new set of external disciplines come hand-in-hand , with the neo-liberal model of economic development left untested and foreclosing development strategies that worked historically , and others who could be working for the future . narrowing national autonomy in formulating a strategy of development is the cost to which developing countries are unlikely to receive an adequate reward . second , it is doubtful that the new policy agendas will make the international financial system much more secure . as long as capital flows remain large relative to the liquid assets held by domestic governments , and easily reversible , the international economy will hostage to spectacular boom and bust cycles . indeed , by focusing attention on the developing world ’s internal structural reforms , risks becoming increasingly apparent in the current approach – which will lead to complacency about short-term capital flows – increasingly , rather than later mitigating systemic risk .
many news stories of female ceos and other high-achieving women coded with a set of reliable clichés : lucked to their new roles ( and therefore does n’t deserve them ) , inherit them from male relatives or spouses ( and thereby do not actually hold the reins of power ) , or will not be there for a long time . if not all else fails , coverage concentrates so narrowly on gender that very leadership of a woman is being weakened . these clichés not only undermine successful women ’s reputations ; in ceos ’ case , they also reduce its value to their companies . and all those clichés have been reproduced with barra ’s appointment at gm . for example , cnn covered the tale by referring to barra ’s “ knack for ascending the corporate ladder ” – a phrase with some suggestive undertones , and one that would never be used with a man at the very top , such as probably hard work , talents , ambition , and dedication – as a knack of “ knack . ”
few observers had anticipated that china would suddenly turn to a full-fledged democracy following its accession to the world trade organization in 2001 . but the country ’s repressive turn over the last decade , as it has , has been disappointing as witness nonetheless . state-owned enterprises remain favored , books are burned , with china ’s communist party continuing to assert its primacy in each domain of chinese life . how long this will last anyone is guess . dynasties will come and go ; but , in 2021 , the cpc will mark the centenary of its founding .
more recently , elections in europe ’s postcommunist countries brought groups with power whose democratic credentials are dubious , to say the least . this is not to compare hamas with any such political force . but one must wonder , in the face of the victory movement , with a relatively few elected members in israeli prisons and others unable to get permission to entering a country on which they were elected to allow the new parliament not to function properly . all this tells us three things to democracy , and we have one of the only problems that can be solved by the first time in the world . first , elections rarely solve fundamental issues in the world .
but only one such “ patriot ” was accorded honor to being allowed to perform this act . that is why lugovoi is being asked for his autograph in his life . this should not , of course , be taken to mean that patriots gushing over lugovoi ’s achievement admit the justice of the british allegations . the social awareness of homo putinicus meticulously burtless by the television propagandists , is such that pride in lugovoi ’s achievement and indignation at the infamous campaign unleashed against him by those whom russians hate can jangle within the breast of ordinary russians without even the slightest dissonance . we obviously confront the mystery of russian thought that the truth has proved so unfathomable to others , so unyielding to every analytical scalpel , and about which our slavophiles and eurasians wrote at length .
and , because inequality of opportunity reduces social mobility from one generation to the next , it creates persistent inequalities traps . · removing barriers of opportunity , governments must address the root causes of inequality by identifying and eliminating discriminatory laws , not least those that actually criminalize disadvantage . moreover , given that inequality largely begins in childhood , governments must invest far more in high-quality universal health care and early childhood education . only by supporting the creation of human capital from an early age can we ensure that inequalities within a generation are not passed on to the next . · such investment will require additional domestic resources .
some should have pointed out that this is being made . spain ’s labor costs have declined substantially since the crisis began . italy has grasped crucially important reforms in areas like pensions . greece has slashed spending by a larger sum , relative to gdp , than any eu country in europe since the end of world war ii . other reforms – especially political reform – will be hotly contested .
two bubbles – property and credit – against which american families borrowed freely have long since burst . but aftershocks linger : household-debt loads were still at 113 % of disposable personal income in 2012 ( versus 75 % in the final three decades of the twentieth century ) , and personal-saving averaged just 3.9 % last year ( compared to 7.9 % from 1970 to 1999 ) . understandably fixated on balance-sheet repair , american consumers did not take the bait from their monetary and fiscal authority . instead , they cut back on spending . gains in inflation-adjusted personal-consumption expenditures averaged just 0.8 % over the last five years – the most severe and protracted slowdown in the post-world war ii consumption-demand growth rate .
while his motivation , at least partly , may have been a desire for social justice , perón was in effect bribing beneficiaries to support his own rise to power and wealth . with his beautiful and outspoken wife - a " wife of the people " - perón , in his view , was able to persuade voters in 1946 that he would fundamentally transform the country . as his word , perón 's government nationalized banks and railroads , increased the minimum wage , and improved living standards , reduced national debt ( at least for some time ) , and revived economies . argentina became less reliant on foreign trade , although shifting toward autarky eventually undermined growth , causing the country to lose its position among the richest in the global world .
in the end , amid street riots and political mayhem , argentina abandoned its currency peg in 2002 . viewed with argentina ’s experience in mind , brazil ’s spending cap looks problematic – all the more so against the backdrop of political turmoil that is set to continue for the foreseeable future . the cap will most likely become even more controversial as brazil recovers . one can not easily imagine the next administration – whenever it comes about to mind – which has come by – a view that has the cap as an obstacle to faster economic growth . the cap ’s defenders will sound unconvincing , for the economic case for it is weak in the absence of extreme credibility challenges .
part of this can be explained by misunderstanding of the relationship between stock and economic growth , which is why prices may be in the us economy . a strange conventional wisdom developed in the inflationary 1970s and 1980s : that strong economic growth and falling unemployment were bad for the share of the price level . prosperity , it was sense , would incite inflation , provoke soaring real interest rates , triggering stock market rout . while experts spent the past two years propounding this market thesis quietly restored the older , common-sense rule : prosperity was good for profits , and therefore good for equities . herein lies one message from the markets ’ worth pondering , even to the point of uninvestors : political confidence can be at low ebb in europe ; businesses and consumers may be shell-shocked by the last recession and gloomy about the future ; but judging by market behavior the years ahead , rather than the stable and prosperous 1950s and 1960s , than the crisis-ridden decades from 1973 to 1989 .
elsewhere , the nigerian federation of chambers of commerce , industry , mines , and agriculture ( naccima ) has used its agenda over the past few years to coordinate economic reform . in 1999 , this task assumed critical importance because of the country opening itself to democracy . an legislative advisory program is another tool business , with its ability to leverage public policy . to shape legislation , such programs requires : * sound economic analysis , and background papers readily accessible for technocrats and others to study ;
currencies collapsed and a banking sector collapsed . the imf foresaw that thailand and others would deliver positive growth in 1998 ( 3 percent in thailand 's case ) . now , the imf recognizes that thailand would shrink by around 3 % . its medicine did little to save the economy . the imf mobilized massive amounts of money ( $ 118 billion ) for indonesia , korea , and thailand in order to pay back foreign creditors attempting to withdraw its funds .
the obama administration knows an iron law of american politics – it ’s the economics , stupid ” – as well as anyone else . yet it highlights obama ’s ability to get things done abroad , rather than an effort at distraction ; it also sends the message that the domestic-political impasse is not his fault . so expect plenty of foreign-policy news in the months to come . election-year tactics aside , american voters are right . obama has performed far better in foreign policy than in domestic politics , which is all the more surprising in view of the weak hand he has handled : a american who has lost a moral authority , his military invincibility , and his credibility as an economic model .
but it is just one aspect of the urgent need to import people from africa and asia . europeans will also see dismantling their welfare states and social-security systems ; cherished “ european model ” of pensions , healthcare , and unemployment benefits is taking the form of the despised and commonly afraid “ american model . ” that is no longer to say , because europeans crave the rigors of america ’s less cosseted welfare conditions , but because it is the only ways european governments can stay afloat financially . a root cause of all such developments is europe ’s population shrinkage . a “ demographic time bomb ” that economic analysts debate over the last decade or more is now exploding .
they feel confirmed in their belief that for most of the west ’s governments outrage over iranian terrorist activities counts less than the lure of doing business . and watch lee at how europe , japan , and america , rather than acting together , display the weakness of disunity . should a rogue state be allowed to get away with its provocations ? the trouble is : in most cases , it will be . instruments of coercion that states dispose of short military intervention are imperfect , and , remotely , efficient , requires a degree of international solidarity generated only in exceptional circumstances .
london – a flawed understanding of what drives economic growth has come to mind has emerged as the gravest threat to recovery in the european union . european policymakers obsessively embrace national “ competitiveness , ” and genuinely seem to believe that prosperity was synonymous with trade surpluses . this largely explains why germany routinely cited as an example of a vigorous , “ competitive ” economy . but economic growth , even in traditionally export-led economies , is fueled by productivity growth , rather than the ability to capture an increasing share of global markets . while imports must , of course , finance exports , the focus on us trade competitiveness is drawing a spotlight on europe ’s underlying problem – very weak productivity growth .
and increasingly important battery cells are to electric cars ’ overall value , a stronger agglomeration effect will be . this would be a momentous shift . china currently controls the entire value chain of electric cars , including cobalt supply , essential raw material in battery manufacturing . as a result , china produces 69 % of the world ’s electric-powered battery cells , the united states ( 15 % at tesla ’s “ gigafactory ” ) , and europe just 4 % . nonetheless , europe could still develop battery production by recycling old electronics to create new cobalt-saving processes , and to discover alternative mineral deposits .
governments need to reduce bureaucratic red tape so that entrepreneurs take more risks . but breakthroughs technology companies such as apple , facebook , and twitter also depend on people who have access to well-well-funded education systems . and while there is a rising “ tech for good ” sector in europe , they will succeed only if they supported up-to-date infrastructure , which generally requires public outlays . policymakers in europe ( and elsewhere ) must adjust their thinking – especially their fiscal thinking – to put people first . for starters , governments that make them the central goal of maximizing human wellbeing end up encouraging , not only higher economic growth , but also nurturing healthier politics .
the initiative will have to come from top if the case is to be made within every country for more open markets and for assistance available to those who face adjustment . all countries will need to give ; no country can expect the burden of adjustment to be borne alone . pro-trade forces can speak out in a political process . for example , it is untenable in rich countries that accounting for less than 4 % of employment are effectively able to block agreement to open up new markets to services and manufactures that account for more than 90 % of employment . in developing countries , pro-trade voices could help turn the debate toward opportunities for global integration , rather than emphasizing exemptions .
indeed , iran ’s prompt support for shia-led shia-led government in iraq was intended in part to preempt competition from regional adversaries . but iranian critics of us intervention seem to be convinced of this a middle way . the inter-sectarian dialogue in iraq , and the regional compromise with both turkey and the gulf states , does not necessarily translate into a loss of iranian influence . iran already has countenaciously removed maliki in favor of haider al-abadi ; if broader political consideration is necessary to quell the threat , so it will be . iran ’s hawks might be convinced that their country is invincible , but their fears are growing that regional overreach may trigger a long list of dangerous consequences .
in houston , us authorities were prepared for harvard partly because of lessons learned from hurricane katrina , devastated by new orleans in 2005 . that storm caused 1,833 deaths , while at least 88 were killed during harvard . the impact of lessons learned in india is even more striking . in october 2013 , residents of the hurricane in the us were alerted early to cyclone phailin . by the time the storm made landfall , many people had already evacuated , and the numbers were still still not the first to be made .
for catalan separatists , this means they now face what a political scientist hans morgeny thau has termed the “ a-b-c paradox ” of nationalism . if catalonia wants to leave spain , why should n’t barcelona have the right to leave catalonia ? and why would today ’s “ downtrodden ” catalans become tomorrow ’s oppressors to avoid that outcome ? given that the status quo is unstable , and independence is impossible , many believe the only solution is more fiscal autonomy for catalonia . but this , too , is unlikely in the near term .
indeed , even that futile scenario might be optimistic , because it assumes that talks are gaining ground – an impossible feat if israel continues its illegally construction of settlements in the occupied palestinian territories . such activities are not merely unjust ; they are violating the united nations security council resolution 2334 , adopted almost unanimously last year ( a america then led by barack obama abstained ) . that resolution demanded that israel instantly and cease all settlement operations in occupied palestinian territories , and , in addition , east jerusalem – activities that amount to a “ flagrant violation under international law . ” any agreement among israelis and palestinians will require deep concessions by both sides – concessions that leaders on either side will have to convince their respective publics to accept . trump ’s son-in-law and adviser , jared kushner , tasked with resolving the conflict , and the trump administration ’s chief negotiator on the topic – jason greenblatt , seems to understand this .
the chinese authorities are well aware of how much their country has benefited from becoming deeply integrated into the global economy . and , to the contrary , they are unprepared to venture the way for their domestic legitimacy : economic growth . the belt and road initiative ( bri , formerly called one belt , one road ) – that xi christned “ the project of the century . ” – the truth is that china ’s strategic choice to strengthen commercial linkages with the rest of eurasia and africa , seize the opportunity to accumulate “ soft power ” – that is , the “ brics ” of the chinese government . nonetheless , while china is not openly calling into question the foundations of the liberal order , it is not at all . the remarkable communiqué by the world leaders of the bri forum in beijing last month committed more than 30 countries and international organizations to foster “ peace , ” justice , social cohesion , inclusiveness , good governance , the rule of law , human rights , gender equality , and women ’s empowerment .
the question , then , is whether the new leaders , as early as next month , succeeded in new efforts at adopting the vital institutional reforms the enlarged union demands . the best way forward is to focus on the essentials . part iii of the blocked constitutional treaty is merely a compendium of the existing eu treaties , which – because these agreements will remain in place regardless of whether they are part of a new document – can be decoupled from the rest . part ii of the stalled document , the eu charter , can be put aside . to be sure , this would be painful because , because eu bureaucracies acquire more authority , the eu ’s democratic deficit will widen without a clear defined basic rights .
that , then , is true of the nations of european states . for europeans , however , there is a more profound cause : the trans-atlantic alliance needs more today than ever , and is far stronger with britain in europe and europe an equal partner with america . forget the short-term electoral politics there or here , or in the us . in the long term , this fundamentally creates an alliance of values : freedom , democracy . as the world changes and opens up across boundaries of the nation and cultures to govern the twenty-first century ?
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades ; and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . similarly , just just a few months ago , two vice ministers of the state petroleum corporation , the country ’s minister of transportation and former chief of state petroleum ( iea ) , were all brought to court on charges of state property sold to private companies at a loss . taken together , these cases point to a high level of state capture – the form of corruption rife with former soviet-bloc countries in which powerful private-sector actors use insiders to gain control of public institutions and assets .
a minority coalition comprising the cdu would force the csu to compromise on migration issues and climate policy that would otherwise be unnecessary , given the spd ’s inability to die linke ( the left ) and the greens to block legislation . and merkel herself will try to avoid a minority coalition with the fdp , to avoid becoming dependent on it . for her part , the fdp would like to participate precisely in such a government . it would then be able to contain merkel ’s red-green affinity . some minority government , whatever its composition , would not necessarily be a bad thing .
a government minister at the cdf noted that the one million chinese tourists who traveled abroad last year used their credit card to purchase about $ 1 billion worth of goods that they can not acquire at home ( while noting the irony that some of those european and american branded goods actually are manufactured in china ) . china is still a low-income country , with per capita gdp of just $ 14,000 , some fourth of it in the united states . although beijing and shanghai are relatively prosperous , much of them are still living in poverty . it is revealing that to achieve their five-year plan ’s goal of halving poverty by 2020 – which calls for reducing the number of poor people by $ 55 million – the poverty line is defined as only $ 354 per year , or less than a day . chinese corporations ’ high levels of debt could be a source of financial instability , although several officials have stressed that they are not concerned .
but those who believe that the ccp can defy either internal degenerative dynamics of autocracy and the historical record of failed one-party regimes might benefit from reading leon trotsky who knew something about revolutions in his own . dictatorships are viewed as indestructible before they fall , trotsky reminds us , but their demise is perceived as inevitable once they are overthrown . another explanation is fear of contemplating the unfamiliar . ccp rule may not last but an alternative – state failure and civil chaos – may turn out to be far worse than the status quo . but the record of democratic transitions since 1974 suggests that regime change in a china is unlikely to be calamitous .
neusoft had begun as low-cost competitor to oracle corporation . after moving on to produce audio equipment , liu jiren , neusoft ’s ceo , started hearing complaints from local hospitals about the very high costs of specialized x-ray , mri , ultrasound , and ct-scanning machines ( such as those made by ge , philips , siemens , and toshiba ) . suddenly , a new business was stillborn . liu realized that neusoft could link standard intel chips and his own imaging software to a range of digital sensors . neusoft ’s equipment looks like little personal computers with sensors attached to them .
princeton – by now , everyone knows that germany is calling the shots not just in the eurozone , but across all of europe . within germany , endless debates about german identity were used – what one historian called the “ continual dispute about what is german might mean . ” but , in foreign-policy terms , postwar west germany – and , later , reunified germany – was entirely predictable : never against the western world ; always to the more europeans . now , the “ berlin republic ” has a very secure stake in its identity – and seemingly offshore in its dealings with the world . there are structural reasons for this change .
and the oversight that warped kelvin ’s estimate – the possibility that fluid motion could effectively transport heat within the earth ’s interior – has proved critical in understanding plates tectonics and continental drift . startup ventures exemplify the potential benefits of risk-taking . while just around 49 % of manufacturing startups and 37 % of intel startups survive for four or more years , those that managed to generate breakthrough innovations . tom watson , jr. , who led ibm through decades of robust growth , knows for having promoted brilliant blunders . as he put it , “ we should have the courage to take risks when thoughtful risks are . we need to forgive the mistakes that have been made because someone is trying to act aggressively in the interest of the company . ”
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us already have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh upon the present for many years to come . netanyahu comes the greatest threat .
according to putin , he rooted in trump ( but , of course , he did not interfere with trump ’s behalf ) because they shared a desire to improve bilateral relations . now , more than ever , putin has more in need of america ’s friendship with the us . if he was reelected president in a landslide in march , his approval ratings have since plummeted to 45 % . russians resent mounting economic insecurity brought on by trump ’s predecessor , barack obama – initiated after russia ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 ( a move initially bolstered putin ’s flagging approval ratings ) . popular discontent in russia , too , has inflamed the authorities ’ widely reviled pension reform , which includes raising the pension age .
wall street ( whose interests america ’s treasury represents ) profits from capital market liberalization : they make money as capital flows in the way it flows out , with restructuring occurring resulting havoc . in south korea , the imf urged sales by country banks to american investors , despite koreans running their own economies impressively for four decades with higher growth , greater stability , and , without the systemic scandals that marked america ’s financial markets with such frequency . in some cases , american firms bought us banks , held on them until korea recovered ; and then resold them , reaping billions of capital gains . in its rush to have westerners purchasing the banks , the imf neglected one detail : to ensure that south korea could recapture at least a fraction of those gains through taxation . whether us investors had more expertise in the banking sector in emerging markets may be debatable ; to be debatable , that it had more expertise in tax avoidance .
princeton – on january 1 , derek parfit , one of my generation ’s great philosophers , died . just one year earlier , in a poll on the world ’s leading philosophy web site , parfit was voted by the most important living anglophone philosopher . of all philosophers i have known since i started studying the subject more than 50 years ago , parfit came close to genius at the heart of the world . getting into a philosophical argument with him was like playing chess with a grandmaster : he had already thought of every response i was able to make to his arguments , regarded several possible answers and knew the objections of every response that would respond , just as the best counters to such objections were . parfit was no household name ; he had been .
on paper , a hospital seems well staffed and well equipped , but on my rounds , i found halls and wards deserted and barren . with few therapeutic and diagnostic options , it was available to halls and diagnostic possibilities . even a staple test , like the cat scan , would require transportation to another regional hospital . but under-equipped hospitals may not be the greatest barrier to controlling china ’s aids crisis . equally harmful are the government ’s sensitivity to its own policy failures and the stigma attached to a disease which is often sexually transmitted .
comparing the outcomes of these two simulations suggests that large export flows of palestinian labor to israel reduce palestinian economy capacity to export goods by putting upward pressure on wages , undermining competitiveness . these simulations have also suggested that continuing reliance on exports of labor output in less than growth potential for the palestinian economy than does a development strategy based on exports . but , on average , incomes in the west bank and gaza will remain far below the latter strategy than in the situation that the israeli labor market has gradually reopened for palestinian labor . this confirms the huge short-term social welfare costs for palestinian society to restrict palestinian workers ’ access to israeli labor markets . what trade policies could boost the export of goods , rather than labor ?
addis ababa – when zimbabwe ’s president , robert mugabe , was deposed in november 2017 , after 30 years in power , many were hoping that economic decline he oversaw would soon reverse . yet , a year or a half later , the economy shows no signs of recovering , thanks to the ongoing currency crisis . could the blockchain-cryptocurrency be the cure for what ails zimbabwe ? following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
but when his son borrows essential elements of his father ’s architectural principles and serves a regime that seeks to use the games for some of the same reasons that animated hitler , is he not willingly reflecting those sins ? totalitarian regimes – nazi ones , soviet and chinese in 1980 , and now – desire to host the olympics as a way of signal to the world their supremacy . china believes it has found its own model of development and modernization , and its rulers regard the games in the same way that both nazis and leonid brezhnev do , as a means of “ selling ” their model for a global audience . clearly , the chinese have been tone-deaf to choose an architect whose name has carried such dark historical connotations . the name of speer himself probably did n’t matter to the officials who chose it .
the way to square this apparent circle is by noting that we love our motherland not because of an misplaced feeling of ethnic or racial superiority ; instead , it stands for noble , universal values . macron can proudly call himself a french patriot , because france gave world liberté , alité , and fraternité . in the recently dutch election , liberals could argue in favor of respecting the rights of immigrants , because the respect and tolerance are traditional dutch values in which any dutch patriot can take pride . these are examples of what the philosopher , jürgen habermas , has called constitutional patriotism ( others have called this civic patriotism ) . that philosophical position holds practical implications .
carrying out such investigations effectively and without delay would restore the icc ’s credibility and bolster its capacity to fulfill its intended role as a potent force for international justice . to succeed , the icc will need to overcome strong resistance , not only from dictators and warlords , but even from elected leaders , especially us president donald trump . in april , when the icc set out whether to proceed with its inquiry in afghanistan ’s war crimes – including any that may have been perpetrated by american power – the trump administration revoked the court ’s visa . if the icc is to fulfill the role it created , it could neither bow to this strain nor allow its inadequate performance to continue . instead , its leaders – especially his chief attorney general , grambian fatou bensouda – must take recent criticism as motivation , and prove to be up for the task .
new york – capital-account regulations have been center on global financial debates for two years . the reasons are clear : since the world has experienced a “ multi-speed recoveries , ” as the international monetary fund puts it , slow-growth advanced countries maintain very low interest rates and other expansionary monetary policies , while fast growth in the emerging economies unwinding expansionary policies that they adopted during the recession . this asymmetry has spurred huge capital flows from ex-communist countries to the latter , which are likely to continue . emerging economies worry that this flood of capital drives up their currencies ’ exchange rates , in addition to fueling current-account and asset-bubbles that past experience has taught them is a certain recipe for future crises . compounding the problem is that there is one of the countries ’ expansionary policies , which have the world ’s largest financial sector and issues a paramount globalized currency .
greenpeace , along with other organizations , has opposed the use of genetically modified organisms ( gmos ) , campaigned against introducing beta carotene , which in turn is turned into vitamin a. moore ’s mortality figures seem to be on high levels , but there can be little doubting the seriousness of vitamin a deficiency among children , especially in parts of africa and southeast asia . according to the world health organization , it causes blindness of around 250,000-500,000 pre-school children every year , about half of whom die in less than 12 months . the deficiency , too , increases susceptibility to diseases like measles , still a major cause of death in young children , though one that is declining as a result of vaccination . in some countries , the lack of vitamin a also has an effect on high rates of maternal mortality during pregnancy and childbirth .
so what lessons do history have to teach us about our current global economic predicament ? in 1829 , john stuart mill made the keynesian intellectual leap in figuring out how to fight what he called the “ general gluts . ” mill saw that excess demand for some special asset sets in financial markets mirrored excess supplies of goods and services in their product markets , which in turn generated excess supply of workers in labor markets in the us . the implication of this was clear . if you relieved excess demand for financial assets , you also cured the excess supply of goods and services ( the shortfall of aggregate demand ) and excess supply of labor ( mass unemployment ) .
nobody actor – be it government , a university research laboratory , ngo , an entrepreneur , or a group of funders – can solve today ’s truly big problems alone . it is the gap seen in areas as heterogeneous as health care , education , and climate action . this is why zuckerberg ’s initiative was designed for maximum flexibility , enabling funds to be channeled to un-profits directed into private investment , or used to help influence policy debates . similarly , the bec pledged to boost others ’s work by taking “ the flexible , early stages of access , providing seed , angel , and series investments , with the expectation that once those investments become de-risking , traditional commercial capital would invest in later stages . ” of course , not even billionaires can fix the world ’s problems on their own .
american populists , perhaps inspired by thomas piketty ’s writings , seem unimpressed by the fact that globalization has lifted hundreds of millions of desperately poor people in both china and india into the global middle class . a liberal view of asia ’s rise is that it makes the world fairer and more just place where a person ’s economic fate does not depend fairly on where it has come out of hand . but a more cynical view pervades populist logic , namely , that in her excessive adherence to globalism , the us has sown the seeds of its own political and economic ruin . trumpism taps into this sense of national mortality ; here is someone who considers that he is able to do something of it . the goal is not just to “ bring home ” american jobs , but to create a systems that extend american dominance .
one approach would enhance deterrence , by bolstering conventional south korean and american forces and reimposing tactical nuclear weapons in the south . but more conventional power would add little to capable forces already on the ground , bringing nuclear weapons back into south korea , would only force the two sides to more anxious ( and offshore american naval forces have already pack enough punch to reinforce deterrence ) . another approach would seek to normalize diplomacy on the assumption that it could enhance communication , thereby diminishing the nuclear threat . yet , in such a scenario , north korea could hold relations hostage to such outsize demands by withdrawing american forces from the region and helping to prop up the regime . ultimately , north korea ’s stalinist government will rebuff any effort that encroaches on the kind of isolation it needs to remain in power .
so a populist backlash in latin america – brazil , bolivia , ecuador , and , most disastrously , venezuela – took the form of left-wing politics . the story is similar in the major two exceptions of the right-wing resurgence in the european union – greece and spain . in greece , the main political fault line has been austerity policies imposed through european institutions , and the international monetary fund . in spain , most migrants until recently came from the culturally similar latin american countries . in both countries , a far right lacked the breeding ground it had elsewhere .
british and american negotiators met secretly with libyan counterparts to resolve the case for pan am flight 103 over lockerbie , scotland , and other terrorism issues . in the quid pro quo that followed , qaddafi agreed to eliminate his nascent nuclear program in exchange for an end to pariah status . this coincided with a critical demand : no deal without america ’s commitment to eschew regime change . on december 19 , 2003 , libya formally renounced all wmd efforts . eight years later , he pinned down america ’s predator drone and french airstrikes , qaddafi met his demise .
botswana ’s amazing annual per capita income growth of roughly 13 % in the past decade coincided with the decline in the proportion of almost six children per woman to less than four . why is rapid population growth bad for an extremely poor country ’s standard of living ? math is straightforward : more people mean that ( on average ) everyone gets less . a rising population dilutes the accumulation not just of physical capital , but also of human capital . the quality of children in poor households goes down as their quantity goes up , because poor families with many children are unable to invest enough in each child ’s education to ensure that future adults are benefiting a key determinant of economic success .
like italy , they are not capable of performing that as the brigade of flowers children ; they need to pick leaders who can speak for , and negotiate for them . the modernizers need a coherent force – and , most likely , a political party – , rather than simply relying on wisdom ( and good behavior ) of crowds to govern the country . that does not mean that activists should abandon the cause of which they are fighting . but it does mean understanding that even democracy has a lot of rules – ideally rules that a majority has elected . but it is generally not elected , at least not directly ; these rules reflect compromises among elected representatives , who can argue and negotiate in person , reflecting the overall preferences of those who have elected them . this may sound a little like the old system , but it must not be .
rising incomes ; growing demand for health care , childcare , and elder care in aging societies ; and investment in infrastructure , power , and technology will create new job opportunities . given the sector ’s secular and occupational distribution of such opportunities , women may be slightly better positioned to take on them . assuming that current gender and sectoral patterns hold , women could have access to 20 percentage points more jobs than they do today , compared with 19 % for men . this slight advantage for women reflects robust growth that is expected in sectors like health care , where women are well represented . in fact , in many countries , women account for more than 70 % of health-care and social-assistance workers , and this sector could comprise one-quarter of future job opportunities for women ( manufacturing accounts for a similar share of potential female jobs ) .
i myself once witnessed putin courting culture , and that of the us , he was also the only thing i had to know . it was new year ’s eve 2003 , during a concert at the newly reopened house of music in moscow . directly , across aisle from me , putin was sitting between putin ’s one-time dissident cellist and conductor mstislav rostropovich and his equally celebrated wife , opera diva galina vishnevich . russia ’s leader was like a sweety store of candy – thrilled to be surrounded by these cultural icons , the former exiles no less . and icons were obviously flattered by putin ’s adoration ( and by his near-power ) .
however , gdp growth soon began to deteriorate fast . in an attempt to revive growth in the difficult global environment and buffer exports against the impact of the asian financial crisis , chinese government loosened monetary and fiscal policies in early november 1997 . but it was too little too soon to do so . by 1998 , when cpi inflation had started to fall , producer prices had already been falling for eight months , and remain negative for a total of 51 months , with cpi growth beginning to recover after 39 months . an obvious lesson is that the government should have switched to loosening earlier and more forcefully .
so have the us now move from piketty ’s r r & d world to blanchard ’s research world ? if so , can the views be reconciled ? piketty ’s views and blanchard may be reconciled ? in fact , the answer is no and yes . piketty ’s views and blanchard can be reconciled , because they speak of divergent interest rates . while blanchard focuses on the low-risk government bonds rate , piketty worries about returning risky capital investment .
banks have not failed , and none is certain to tumbling dominoes . but that is not because banks , prepared by raising more capital , are on their own . on the contrary , compared to their likely future losses , european banks have recently raised relatively little capital – and , in most ways , much of that has been creative accounting , rather than truly loss-absorbing shareholder equity . perhaps the risk that greek debt restructuring would trigger a financial meltdown has always been minimal and quiescent markets should be expected . but in that case , why are all fuss ?
in the scandinavian countries , as they oppose , say , germany and the us government , not individual firms , take the most responsible responsibility for society . that way , economically irrational lock-in effects , whereby workers simply can not afford to change jobs , is avoided . moreover , benefits are generous enough to ensure that short periods of unemployment do not force workers to sell homes or even cars . the system protects not only the unemployed , who can continue to service their mortgages and interest , but indirectly the banks , for their loans to households , even in times of recession . and , rather than solving any kind of economic caused private problems , laid-off workers may focus on finding new and more future-oriented jobs .
the irony is that this advice comes after too much of their former productive capacity disappeared . but , having suffered currency and capital-account crises with greater openness , many emerging-market economies still feel compelled to accumulate enormous reserves to protect themselves against greater global financial volatility . while financial globalization has not bolstered growth , it has exacerbated volatility and instability . meanwhile , the national “ policy space ” for economic recovery has shrunk since last year ’s crisis . public investment and basic social protection can help to transform this around through jobs created by millions .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . one aspect of this supposed moral and cultural decline concerns a family : “ to attack an institution with its own , regard for it with disdain or question its important role , ” the pope and the grand imam state “ are one of the most threatening evils of the modern modern era . ” a paper asserts that the family is a “ core nucleus of society and humanity ” and “ is essential to bringing children to the world , raising them , educating them , and supplying them with solid moral formation and domestic safety . ”
addis ababa – with almost 60 % of its population under 25 age , africa is the world ’s youngest region . yet it is widely recognized that young people are often left behind . they frequently confront insufficient economic opportunities and potentially socially or politically excluded . unless youth socioeconomic and political engagement are addressed , achieving many of the united nations sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) will be impossible . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
in the nineteenth century , no country took more land from china than russia had done , and its current demographic situation in the far east – where russians number six million , and the chinese side side of the border is up to 120 million – raises anxiety in moscow . russia ’s economic decline has heightened its concern about the rise of china . while trade has increased , investment is lagging , with russia ranks only one-tenth among china ’s export markets . as the economist recently reported , russia worries about becoming an alliance of the us – more dependent on china than on china . according to feng yujun of fudan university , “ the most important relationship for the us is america ’s . ”
florence -- in phaedrus , wolf ’s well-known fable wolf and lamb , martin wolf easy to eat lamb without the word , but prefers to set his own “ reasons . ” first , he scolds a lamb because he muddes his drinking water ( even when wolf was upstream ) . he then argues that last year , lamb called him bad names ( but the lamb had just six months of age ) . wolf then snarls that , unless it was the lamb , it was his father ; after that , he promptly moves into action . wolf ’s “ justifications ” for his evil action were a luxury .
arlington , virginia – the election left one of the world ’s largest countries deeply divided , handing the presidency over to military-loving , minority-bullying , media-bashing firebrand promising to smash the corrupt establishment . i am not speaking of the 2016 american presidential election that brought donald trump to power , but rather brazil ’s 2018 election , won by so-called trump in the tropics , jair bolsonaro , formally inaugurated on january 1 . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the globe . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
she then rapidly proceeded to give a long celebratory address to the heroism of american soldiers “ fighting for freedom ” abroad . it seemed odd – and to many offensive – transition : from king king the great plea to civic rights to palin ’s sentimental clichés about the military . but , then , something odd came about the entire event , just as something odd about the tea party movement itself has happened . this latest surge of american populism is financed by some extraordinarily wealthy men , including several oil-billionaires , named david and charles koch , who favor slashing taxes for the super-rich , and abolishing government subsidies for the poor , such as social security and president barack obama ’s health-care plan . this agenda could appear selfish , though understandable from the standpoint of the billionaire oil .
the onset of his papacy finds populist governments in a vulnerable situation , hit hard by chávez ’s recent death . all , of course , have their own identities and strengths , but they are unlikely to miss chávez ’s protective global influence , as well as his subsidies . furthermore , they rule out the countries in which catholics are an overwhelming majority . while the degree of their religious commitment varies , they share a powerful emotional attachment to a religious belief that provides a large degree to francis , i of whom i do , with considerable political leverage . latin america will no doubt be among francis ’s priorities .
the us must take the lead on the world by deed , and on a case-by-case basis . ” but obama can not do it alone – and so far neither the american public nor the american congress , for that matter , seems committed to rejoining with its moral compass . it should be unacceptable , for example , for the congress to block extradition of 86 guantánamo bay detainees cleared by a committee of national-security officials . nor are revelations by former us intelligence contractor edward snowden exempted the possibility of us surveillance stirred america to call for a new approach . the answer to the other major question shaping the global future – whether china will recapture its economic momentum – appears to be “ no , ” at least in the short term , with most experts agreeing that china ’s export – and investment-led growth model has all but exhausted its potential .
nevertheless , substantive and remarkable progress has been made , all of the past few years . moreover , someday , we will be able to know – through sequencing the entire genome – about rarer genomic variations that tend to be correlated with treatments or spillover effects . this paved the way for next-generation pharmacies . genotyping can now be achieved within 20 minutes , and over time will gain even faster . to fill a prescription for a drug with known pharmacogenomic profile , a customer can get fast genotyping , so that it is possible to identify appropriate dose , drug , or predilection for serious spillover effects .
new answers to where the greatest competitive advantages lie lie in the financial crisis . from the perspective of banks , the most obvious lesson was national governments ’ need to carry down the potential costs of rescue . it is not best to be subject to the most favorable regulatory regime anymore . extremely large banks in small territories with small-scale governments have become vulnerable . america is big enough to deal with behemoths like bank of america , or citigroup .
so far , we also have done comparable analyses on the fate of the caribbean and indian ocean islands following initial human contact , but it is likely that big extinctions have occurred there , too . early european exploration likely kept this rapid pace of extinction . the number of species that were known to have expired between 1,500 and 1800 is increasing , as taxonomists describe a new species from skeletal remain found in caves , such as where bones survive . these searches are a long way from absolute . linnewton invented the modern process of naming species by the mid-1700 's , even though naming did not get in a way until the peace process following napoleon bonaparte 's defeat in 1815 .
syria , iraq , yemen , and libya all are dealing with a mix of civil and proxy wars , and with a mix of civil and proxy wars in the region . iran ’s nuclear-pact , at best , manages one aspect of iranian power and is only for limited length . the islamic state ( isis ) can lose its territorial dimension ; but it , along with other groups in the region , will continue to pose a terrorist threat for years to come . the plight of millions of refugees constitutes not just an economic and strategic tragedy ; it also exposes the economic and strategic burden to countries in both the region and europe . and europe is already confronting many significant challenges , including russian military aggression against ukraine , brexit , populism and nationalism , and low rates of economic growth .
such movements have created the space to forward-thinking policymakers to take action . the climate crisis , however , continues to grow , demonstrating that the us still has a long way to go . this year alone , catastrophicheat waves have stricken north africa , europe , japan , pakistan , australia , and argentina in the first place . deadly wildfires have taken lives and destroyed billions of dollars worth of property in greece , sweden , the united states , and russia . droughts have hit kenya and somalia , and afghanistan and south africa have suffered from severe water shortages .
this is the start of important dialogue in africa . a strong , prosperous africa with a productive and expanding middle class is in american interest , and a robust partnership with the us will be vital for africa ’s continue growth and development . now the decisions we make will have implications for generations to come . we owe this to our descendants – and to silicon savannah entrepreneurs already head the charge – to get it right .
paris – some countries are naturally at ease with concept and strategic power reality . that was clearly the case of france under louxiv , the sun king of the seventeenth century , and such is the scenario today that china , whose leadership is comfortable with classical europe ’s balance-of-power games . india is clearly within a different category . economically , india ’s confidence was boosted by how the western world now looks at it with a mixture of respect and greed : “ what sort of deals can i strike with such an emerging market , whose population will soon be the world ’s largest of any country ? ” yet to understand india ’s political and diplomatic relationships with the outside world , the most glaring comparison is with the 1920 ’s .
views on social mobility are not uniform across the political spectrum or across geographic regions . in both america and europe , for example , people who call themselves “ conservative ” on matters of economic policy feel that opportunities for all children are equal to all , and that a free-market economy in their country is fair . the contrast holds true for those who call themselves economically “ liberal . ” those people favor government intervention , because they believe , left to their own devices , markets will not ensure fairness , and may even generate greater increases in inequality . an even more striking pattern is that americans are overly optimistic about social mobility in parts of the country where actual mobility is low – including southeastern georgia , alabama , virginia , north carolina , and south carolina .
grocer , coffee shop , and barber go out of business , and everybody leaves , turning the spot into ghost towns . disruption can be due not only to industrial closures . once in time , there have been many relatively small department-store chains and other retailers with headquarters spread across american and outlets in just a few towns . these headquarters brought income to their city by providing back-office services to their stores . but the consolidation of retail industries , spurred in part by walmart and amazon , dealt the deathblow to many such companies .
the bat has little support even among republicans . the republicans ’ proposed tax cuts would create a $ 2 trillion revenue shortfall over the next decade , leaving them unable to plug that hole in revenue from their health-care reform plan , or with the $ 1.2 trillion that one could have expected from the bat to the next . the republicans now have to choose between passing their tax cuts ( and adding $ 2 trillion in public debt to the us ) and pursuing a much more modest reform . the first scenario is unlikely for three reasons . first , fiscally conservative congressional republicans object to a reckless build-up of us government debt .
such resilience will be tested over the longer run , albeit owing to fiscal and external imbalances , unaffected by data revision . part of the national income account ’s analytical attractiveness is that they add up . if a country saves more but investment remains unchanged , it borrows less ( or lends more ) from the rest of the world . its net export position and current-account balance improves . but that did not happen .
first , when it comes to climate change , the key is to look like something . countries that manage that are capable of getting away with massaging that data . the 2015 paris climate agreement provides a powerful example of this . countries made grandiose pledges to keep the increase in global temperature well below 2 ° c above pre-industrial levels , but all their promises collectively will add up to less than 1 % of what is needed to do . new analysis shows that only 17 countries – including algeria and samoa – actually meet their pledges , in most cases , because they have promised very little .
thawing siberian permafrost releases vast quantities of methane , and the vast numbers of methane could become uninhabitable . as a result , vast areas in us planet , currently home to billions of people in the atmosphere , could become uninhabitable . the unfccc signatories ’ earlier conferences sought to reach legally binding emission reductions agreements , at least for industrialized countries that produced most greenhouse gases now in the atmosphere . that strategy faltered – partly owing to us intransigence under the president george w. bush ’s administration . bush – and was abandoned when the 2009 copenhagen conference failed to produce a treaty to replace the expiring the kyoto protocol ( something that the us never signed ) . instead , the copenhagen accord merely asked countries for voluntary pledges to cut their co2 emissions by a specific amount .
along the same lines , during russian prime minister dmitri medvedev ’s presidency , he called on the creation of a mechanism for european preventive diplomacy and compulsory consultations in the event of a threat to any state security . had such a mechanism been established , the worst events in ukraine could have been averted . of course , political leaders are to blame for filing away from these and other “ european ideas ” in archives . but the blame also must be shared with the entire european political class , civil-society institutions , and media . although i am , by nature , an optimist , i must admit that it is very difficult not to be pessimistic as 2014 comes close to a close .
when it comes to solutions , europe is ahead of the curve . for example , my home country , denmark , which has been asked to lead energy-policy talks at the un summit , has integrated vast amounts of wind power into its electricity grid . sweden , which is running an industry workstream with india , has made the world ’s first fossil-fuel-free steel plant possible . and progress is hardly being limited to northern europe : romania boasts europe ’s largest onshore wind farms ; poland is producing electric buses ; and austria leads when it comes to green buildings . but as the european leaders increasingly recognize , it ’s time to hit the accelerator .
tolerance for other people ’s religion is the pricing that one ’s own tolerance pays . prejudice has tended to fall as participation increases . it has been in nobody ’s interest to disturb this live-and-let-living pragmatism for very long . one result of the deal is the piñical-sounding “ familiarity with the difference . ” because immigrants participate in america ’s economic and political arenas , americans are used to various forms of people , thereby differentiating those differences that could damage the land from those it is not .
this keeps small businesses in poor nations and regions from reaching their full potential . based on our own experiences – in mexico , which opened itself to foreign investment and trade , and in canada , which is a leading aid donor and a significant source of private investment in the developing world – we remain convinced that many of these problems could identify , isolated , and rigid . entrepreneurial energy is already there : visit the most bright town at market day in the poorest countries to see the private sector in action . if small businesses could expand well beyond village square , their countries could drive growth better than any aid agency . this is why , when un secretary-general kofi annan and un development agenda administrator mark malloch brown has called us to head the new private sector and development commission , we agreed .
there is no guarantee that he will not repeat this gambit in the long run . and yet , even if he does , kim ’s own penchant for drama – from firing missiles over japan to carrying out frequent purges at home – suggests that he knows how to command the stage , bringing trump to the table . moreover , his ego-stroking personal letters to trump show that he has a good fix on the president ’s psyche . so far , he has proved highly effective at keeping the brotilla alive , and a forthcoming summit on track . regardless of when the second summit occurs , the north korean regime will continue to reap dividends on america ’s expense .
amid surging inequality , frustration with pervasive corruption has intensified . in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th out of 180 countries on transparency international ’s corruption perceptions index . in the meantime , the state is failing to provide basic security : in july 2018 , the olympic ice-skating medalist , denis , in broad daylight , at the heart of kazakhstan ’s largest city , almaty , for attempting to stop his automotive mirrors from being stolen . all of this has made emigration a increasingly appealing option , especially among young people , raising the specter of a “ brain drain . ” it has also turned the heat into simmering social unrest that boiled over since nazarbayev ’s resignation ( which may well have been intended explicitly to avoid popular protests ) .
but whenever the kingdom tried to reduce public-sector hiring , unemployment increased . under the current system of incentives , the authorities ’ plans to privatize companies and improve civil-service productivity would indeed destroy the jobs occupied by saudis . the challenge of creating jobs for saudis may seem like a wealth problem . some would argue that all kingdom needs to do is to make saudi workers substitute for foreign workers on existing positions . but simple substitutions will not do this .
the whole point of money is that it allows for parties to transact without barter . but for money to have value , producing economies of scale only to make up for so many currencies simultaneously . in the us , the reason for this is not to employ euros , or yen in addition to dollars , is obvious : doing so would be pointless and make the economy far less efficient . the notion that the hundreds of cryptocurrencies could viably operate together not only contradicts the very concept of money , but is utterly idiotic . but so , too , is the idea that even a single cryptocurrency might substitute for fiat money .
cool warfare threatens to undermine these efforts , as confronted with america on the negotiating table , requires that china strengthen its own position above all . this implies ensuring that disruptions caused by america ’s short-termism do not present a long-term systemic threat to china even as they harm the global economy as a whole . the unfolding sino-american cool war is much less cut and dried up than the cold war was . minimizing the fallout will require the two sides to recognize that efforts to strengthen their own position will become self-defeating in an interconnected world as they undermine global stability and dynamism . the trade war has thrown that lesson into sharp relief .
study ahead of the paris conference suggests that international cooperation could permit rapid reductions of greenhouse gases . they also highlight the knock-on benefits that taking quick action on climate change could have , including cutting local pollution , greater energy , and food security , and faster innovation . to accelerate the move toward a low-carbon economy , an international agreement is bound to applicable across countries ; include a common and consistent monitoring system , reporting , and verification ; and provide robust economic incentives on a global scale . our price-and-rebate mechanism is inspired by france ’s “ bonus/malus ” scheme , in which buyers of new cars are taxed , or given a bonus , depending on vehicle co2 emissions . in our system , a country exceeding the global average of per capita emissions would pay a specified amount of co2 per ton ( or the equivalent of it ) above a collection threshold .
by purchasing government bonds for cash , a central bank can satisfy demand and push down cash prices . when excess demand does not be met with cash supply , there will be little excess supply of bonds and stockpiles that underpin and finance the economy ’s productive capital . expansionary monetary policy via the standard open-market operation by the central bank is thus the front-page item on the checklist of what to do in a financial crisis . three months ago , i argued that the all but a tiny and unbalanced fringe of economists approves of expansionary open-market operations to keep overall nominal spending constant in a downturn . i was equally right to say that all but a tiny and unbalanced fringe of economists approve of the stability of central-bank stability scheme in order to prevent the risks of a collapse in the payments system from becoming first-order consideration , which boosts demand for cash to unnatural levels .
eastward enlargement of nato and the european union , they contend , was an pointless provocation . in fact , none other than george kennan , the originator of america ’s cold war containment strategy , opposed nato enlargement in the 1990s on precisely these grounds . there are obvious limits to this theory to this . for starters , it rests on claiming at the time of the collapse of the berlin wall and the disintegration of the soviet union , the west promised that nato expansion would exist . even mikhail gorbachev , on the 25th anniversary of the demise of the berlin wall , accused the west of not keeping the promises it made in 1989 , rather than embracing the “ benefit of russia to weaken ” in the 1990s in order to assert “ monopoly leadership and global domination , ” including through nato enlargement .
the international monetary fund has gone too far as acting . even though its october world economic outlook presents a positive picture of global growth , the imf , no doubt , continues to conscious of the panglossian view it offered in 2006 , now warns that the global economy is “ vulnerable to the sudden tightening of financial conditions ” and that “ equity valuations appear stretched stretched in some markets . ” in this context , “ some ” is imf code . in fact , the american market share of global equity valuations is the highest ever , – a remarkable statistic given america ’s declining share of global economic activity . how should we view all of those warnings ?
i have also been developing what i call the adjustment gsdeer , which corrects “ equilibrium ” rates for the ongoing economic cycle , by accounting for factors like the real interest-rate differential between the us and the eurozone . which interest rates are best for comparisons is a matter of debate , as it is through quantitative easing effects ; but i see no good reason to use the ten-year government-bond differential in real ( inflation-adjusted ) terms . accordingly , the adjusted gsdeer for the euro-dollar exchange rate , as of june 7 , was € 1 : $ 1.0590 . given that the dollar was trading in the dollar at around $ 1.1250 against the euro on this day , this suggests a real dollar as actually around 6 % weaker than it should be . now , of course , 6 % is not an especially significant divergence , and that finding may not mean anything at all .
the party arrived to crashing halt in 2009 , when two sharp-elbowed global investment banks accelerated loan repayments – hoping to get their money back . the kazakh government , which was scrambling to support its overextended private banks with its capital injections and nationalizations , gave up the plug . the banks defaulted on loans , and lenders picked up large “ haircuts ” ( reducing principal value ) ( down principal ) . but – and here , too , the point – with its debts written off , the banking system now recapitalized and able to support economic growth . despite a messy default , this fresh start generated a remarkable turning point .
in the drc , for example , even after this time we reach only 8 % of the 760,000 children , we will reach the drc . only about 230 per person per year is available for basic needs , such as water and food and shelter and less than $ 10 per child in the drc . this year must be education ’s moment – a window of opportunity that is opened by a new consensus that education is critical to achieving achieving the un sustainable development goals – including cutting maternal and infant mortality rates , spurring job creation , improving quality of life , and initiating our minds to issues of gender equity . however , most important , this is education ’s moment , because the world ’s young people are demanding it . when a girl holds an insurgent gun in pakistan , when teenage mothers exiled from south sudan in neighboring uganda make education for their children ’s top priority ; and when lights seen from space might include cluster of children huddled by candlelight trying to read and study , we know that the moment of education has arrived
president jimmy carter used this to conclude the 1978 camp david accords , establishing diplomatic links between egypt and israel . and us secretary of state james baker has used it to overcome the monetarist rance of israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir during the madrid peace conference of 1991 . unless the us can provide that day , it needs to relinquish its monopoly over international conflict resolution . it is time for the us to recognize that it can not resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict in its own ways , defuse the iranian nuclear dispute , alter north korea ’s behavior , or stop the syrian civil war on its own . over the last two decades , the world has grown accustomed to us-led international coalitions for war in the middle east .
by appeasing terrorists in this way , the world ’s most powerful states give greece a green light to terrorists not only in the balkans , but everywhere in the world . kosovo is a territory far smaller than in afghanistan . if the world fails to eradicate terrorists from politics in kosovo , what hope is it going to defeat terrorism elsewhere ? so , before the campaign against terror seeks other terrorist bases that it is supposed to destroy , it should exclude terror in a place where the un itself is ruling . if not , the un , nato , and europe discredit themselves just as the humanitarian values it uses to justify its “ humanitarian ” interventions .
if the correlations between fruit fly genes and behavior are so complex , can humans be anything less so with one side ? the view that an individual gene might have a full biological trait is as old as genetics itself . whether describing genes for color of flowers in pea plants or the shape of fruit fly wings , geneticists in the early centuries believe that each gene governed one unique feature . soon , a few early geneticists , the founders of the eugenics movement , made the odious assertion that “ licentiousness , ” “ apollo tlessness , ” and “ criminality ” may all account for individual genes just as much as it is . as time passes , and the scientific understanding accumulated – much of it from the fruit fly – the true complexity of the relationship between genes and traits became starkly apparent .
and you can , after all , not have a final , utopian society without the ultimate , scientific theory of human behavior coupled with some mad scientists or philosophes to preside over the entire matter . the problem is that whatever how “ scientifically ” those new beliefs were formulated is not yet spurious . among other things , capitalism is a struggle between individual people over scarce means . like boxing and poker , it is soft , restrained , private form of warfare . military strategists have known for a century or less for the present , and that it is possible , to say that there is not a definitive science of war .
paris – earlier this week , following the days of tense talks , the new government in athens reached an agreement with its eurozone creditors that includes an immediate reform package , and a four-month extension of the eu ’s financial-assistance program . but , despite europe ’s collective sigh of relief , a compromise does not preclude the need for further tough negotiations on a new financial-assistance program that is to be introduced late june . in any negotiation , a key variable influencing the protagonists ’ behavior , hence , is what inability to reach an agreement will cost each of them . in this case , the issue is the cost of greece ’s exit ( “ grexit ” ) from the eurozone – an prospect that has been discussed widely across the media across the recent negotiation – with considerable speculation on attitudes among various players , most notably the greek and german governments . from greece ’s perspective , leaving the eu would be highly disruptive , which explains why it has little support for the country .
elections in countries that have been strangers to the democracy never seem quite as if afghanistan ’s recent vote demonstrated , and because any us election in iraq is likely to take a fair stand . but electoral flaws are not always the whole picture . consider kazakhstan , where the five million people cast ballots in september to their parliament ’s lower house . western media judged the election failure a failure , too . cnn reported that it was a “ neither equitable nor free one . ”
largely an issue is providing a public goods : basic infrastructure like roads , bridges , ports , and power , together with access to education and basic health care . and , unlike many just equally poor countries , india already has a very strong entrepreneurial class ; a reasonably large and well-educated middle class ; and a number of world-class corporations that can enlist in efforts to provide these public goods . satisfying the demand for such goods is itself a source of growth . but , at the same time , a reliable road creates tremendous additional activity , as trade increases between interconnected areas , as well as myriad businesses , restaurants , and hotels spring up along the way . as india did away with the stultifying license raj in the 1990s , successive governments understood the imperative of economic growth , so much so that the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) challenged the 2004 election on a pro-development platform , encapsulated in its slogan , “ india shining up . ”
its infrastructure , both material and intellectual , became poorer , and its economic structure was unfit to meet the new challenges , owing both to solid size and their specialization in traditional sectors , along with low education and r & d. still , berlusconi ’s government did next in nothing to address these shortcomings , despite being italy ’s first government to survive a fully five-year electoral term . with an unassailable parliamentary majority , it could implement coherent supply-side reforms , even at the risk of some initial unpopularity . a few reforms were belatedly enacted : timid pension intervention and a further increase in labor-market flexibility . but nothing was done to deregulate product markets , or to create sound incentives for restructuring , while privatization came to a halt .
despite civil wars , malnutrition and anguish about the aids epidemic , something remarkable is happening in black africa : stealthy ’s rise to the high tech sector . if not quite representing the african “ silicon valley , ” these shoots of high-tech industries , it is possible to nurtured if africa is to thrive . consider what is happening on the several floors of the one high-rise office building in accra , ghana ’s capital . there are some 1,500 africans who process america ’s health-insurance claims – working around the clock , in three shifts . africans speak english , type , or least 50 words per minute on a computer , take data from paper assertion forms supplied by american health insurers through a satellite in electronic form , put this in new digital forms , and ship them back to the us .
yet the westphalian system was destroyed by the two wars of the first half of the twentieth century – both of which were actually european wars for world domination . when guns had fallen silent in 1945 , the europeans – even a victorious european ally – had lost sovereignty effectively . the westphalian system was replaced by the cold war bipolar order , wherein sovereignty rested with the two non-european nuclear powers : the united states and the soviet union . the eu conceived itself as an attempt to regain european sovereignty peacefully by pooling europe ’s national interests . the goal of such a effort was always to prevent relapse into the old system of great power rivalries , reciprocal alliances , and hegemonic leadership butting .
in october and november , the ecb announce the results of its banks ’ stress tests . because many banks hold large volumes of eurozone governments ’ sovereign debt , the results will depend heavily on how the ecb evaluates sovereign risk . if the ecb grossly commits the understates to the risks , its credibility as a regulator will be badly tarnished . if it is more forthright about risks , there is a possibility that some periphery countries might be having difficulty plugging loopholes and require the northern assistance . one hopes that the ecb might be forthright .
researchers should use fully representative test groups while taking care to follow stringent privacy and accountability protocols . such initiatives cost money , of course . venture capital companies now spend $ 3.2 billion annually on global health research and development , a $ 370 billion increase in global health-care investment , and $ 100 billion in private investment in private capital and private private capital . they should expand the scope for their ai-enabled investment to deliver the environment . they could also fund competitions among socially conscious technology entrepreneurs to spur further innovation in this area .
still , the tlab ’s model of public policy could be effective as well . consider , for example , harvard university ’s growth lab , which i founded in 2006 , after two highly satisfied political engagements in el salvador and south africa . since then , we have worked on more than three dozen countries and regions . in some respects , the lab looks a bit like a tutoring and research hospital . both focuses on research and on clinical work of serving “ patients , ” or governments in our case .
and the us had as much regard for british industrialists ’ trade secrets to the us as china today for america ’s intellectual-property rights . new england ’s fledgling textile mills were desperate for the technologies , and did their best to steal british designs and smuggle in skilled british craftsmen . the us had patent legislation , but was protected by only the us citizens . as one historian of the american enterprise put the case at it , americans were pirates , and too . “ any sensible international trade regime needs to start from recognition that either it is feasible or desirable to restrict the policymaking space countries need to design their own economic and social models .
making all such changes will be difficult to achieve . but , if the world moves in this direction , something along along the lines of the new conclave of global power politics will begin to shape , beginning with a new international system . a second great change – ie , a end to the global ideological distribution – raises difficult , and , perhaps , more complex issues . nowadays , there exists a basic , even on a ritualistic occasion , consensus concerning the notion that democracy and human rights are the points of departure for a political organizations with some form of free market with varying degrees of social responsibility based on private entrepreneurship as the backbone of economic activity . yes , one can debate a third way or a half , or the other half of the world , but these are basically peripheral debates .
it would offer returns near those produced with equity investments , but with some risk offsetting its long-term nature . risk would have been mitigated further , via the participation of major , influential investors , including sovereign wealth funds , pension funds , and possibly international financial institutions . public contributions , likely backstopped in the eyes of multilateral lenders , would have yielded projects with something close to sovereign-risk profiles . finally , an regulated nature of cash flows would enable better pre-defined return structures than traditional private or public equity could offer . the bbhe would require a new private-private infrastructure investment platform structured to give bespoke returns for its very different players .
capital inflows – which will undoubtedly continue to increase in the years ahead , are driven largely by the interest of investors in diversifying and yield , rather than by a country ’s image as a refuge from troubled financial markets elsewhere , particularly given that china ’s financial markets are relatively underdeveloped and beset by considerable risks . to be sure , some foreign central banks signed currency-swap agreements , with china and even hold small quantities of its reserve currencies in their portfolios . but these actions can be less a sign of the renminbi ’s inevitable march toward global dominance than a low-cost bet about its likely emergence as a widely accepted international currency . and countries ’ desire to maintain good relations with china , owing to its rising economic power , can not be discounted . depending on how quickly china opens its capital account and develops its financial markets , the renminbi could become a significant reserve currency in the near future , as in the us .
the peasants in guerrero cultivate amapola for the cartels , not their own livelihood . and america ’s drug-enforcement administration will not look kindly to any backtracking from previous mexican presidents ’ commitments in order to continue waging expensive , bloody , and futile war of drug-choice choice in mexico . there are other issues on the us-mexican agenda , of course , ranging from intelligence sharing to counter-terrorism to regional crises like venezuela , nicaragua , and possibly cuba . amlo will almost certainly maintain mexican cooperation on his first set of issues , while retreating to mexico ’s traditional , archaic anti-interventionist attitude toward regional diplomacy . but trump cares more about security than he does about venezuelan president nicolás maduro or nicaragua ’s daniel ortega , so a genuine rupture here may be shunned .
in 2015 , enabled by a new constitution , burundi ’s president , pierre nkurunziza , won a third term amid violent protests . a similar protests erupted in the democratic republic of congo in the following of a law that would allow president joseph kabila to prolong his tenure . the au should show leadership on this front , pursuing intervention that buttress constitutional democracy in line with his agenda 2063 . the au resisted military coups in the past . on the heels of its success in sudan , it must stand against “ constitutional coups ” carried out by presidents , owing to its establishment as a force for peace and democratic governance in africa .
higher birth rates in the us , the uk , and france reflect a large number of immigrant families in each country . fertility rates among migrants typically outweigh their rates in native european or north american families . but a growing number of immigrant workers will not necessarily increase the fertility rate . germany , for example , has a large guest population , but few settle there with their families ; a majority leaves their children in their homeland . an aging population contributes to europe ’s poor economic performance .
to be sure , there have been no consequences whatsoever for cheney ’s . that news has barely made ripple in the american media . impunity is widespread – indeed , the majority of corporate crimes go unnoticed . the few that are typically noted to end a slap on the wrist , the company – meaning its shareholders – picking up modest fine . the real culprits at top of these companies rarely need worrying .
greene found that people were asked to make moral judgments on “ personal ” violations , like pushing stranger off footbridge , showed increased activity in the areas of the brain associated with emotions . this was not the case for people to produce judgments about relatively impersonal ” violations like throwing a switch . moreover , a minority of subjects who did consider the right to push the foreigner off the footbridge took longer to reach that verdict than those who said that doing so would be wrong . why does our verdicts , and our emotions vary ? for much of our evolutionary history , human beings – and our primate ancestors – lived in small groups in which violence can be inflicted only in an up-close and personal way , by striking , pushing , strangling , or exploiting a stick or stone as a club .
in today 's more complex legal environment , it will take years to negotiate trade deals with the eu , and then to other eu partners . political uncertainty is high , with little prospect of a general election for a resolution anytime soon . investors have every reason to embrace a wait-and-see attitude . in 1949 , britain found itself in the same position , with a trade deficit vis-à-vis the united states and weak investor confidence . by september of that year , sterling was devalued again , as it was 18 or 30 % before .
once in power , erbakan tempered his tone and actions . turkey continued allowing the u.s.-led “ operation provides a comfort ” against iraq in order to use turkish bases . indeed , it remained a vital member of nato . indeed , relations with israel improved with more visits by high-ranking turkish officials than at any time – moving orchestrated by miller but embracing refah . power actually led refah to compromise , rather than extremes .
new york – in 1893 , the playwright george bernard shaw , an ardent proponent of women ’s suffrage and equality , wrote mrs. warren ’s profession , a play whose title figure is the proprietor of several brothels . the play justifies her profitable exploitation of prostitution business . the played is not salacious to contain the language of coarse , but was nonetheless eight years before the event could be staged . its opening in london in 1902 was staged in a small theater “ club ” ostensibly restricted to members . her performance in new york in 1905 was raided by the police .
nairobi/paris – africa is on the verge of an unemployment crisis portending profound economic , political , and social ramifications . but crises can be averted , and one solution may be as simple as turning on lights . every year , some 13 million young people look for work in africa , but only about three million find employment in the world . the continent ’s youth population is projected to double by 2050 , to nearly 840 million , and yet africa ’s school and universities are not generating enough engineering graduates to succeed the working age of tomorrow . although the african development bank ( afdb ) hopes to generate 25 million new jobs in the decade through its youth initiative , it is not immediately clear where those opportunities will emerge from the start .
they did not reckon that palestinians have dignity and national pride , just like any other nation , and insisting that they should be treated accordingly . let us make clear : a two-state solution does n’t mean accommodating the illegal reality of israeli settlements ; rather , it implies ending that colonial enterprise . refusing to mention the two-state solution , trump ’s statements will go in a different direction , more in line with israel ’s official position : one state and two systems . but no palestinian , arab , or accountable international leader would ever accept this design , as have been made clear in messages delivered by world leaders to the trump administration . now , plans are afoot to “ promote a future of peace and security in the middle east ” through a us-polish conference in warsaw , where palestinians will not engage .
in any case , it is not as if avoiding talking about israel was the departure of sanders . despite having commented on a matter where it was needed , he has generally not been outspoken on issues related to the country . he has certainly never embraced israel as the political cause , as has many others in american jewish politicians . nor does israel appear to figure much in its own jewish identity to be more connected to the memory of the holocaust than it has anything else . in this regard , sanders is no different from many other american jews .
king salman embraced trump ’s war against terrorism and anti-iran rhetoric , expressing support for an israeli-palestinian peace . nothing was said about human rights , much less women ’s rights , and that word “ democracy ” never passed through trump ’s lips . instead , trump has completed the deal to provide $ 110 billion in cutting-edge arms to saudi arabia , which , in turn , will invest heavily in america ’s economy . the deal appears to have become the foundations for wonderful new friendships , between america ’s earliest democracy and its most repressive islamic regime . for trump , as for president calvin coolidge , america ’s chief business is business .
because gold amounted to $ 400 an ounce in either years , holding gold did nothing to offset a decline in the dollar ’s value . a japanese investor holding dollar equities or real estate could instead offset exchange-rate loss through a purchase of yen futures . the same is true for a euro-based investor that would not have gained by holding gold to dollars but might have offset the dollar ’s decline by buying euro futures . in short , there are better ways for the gold standard to hedge the risk of inflation and exchange-rate risk . tips , or their equivalent from other governments , provide safe inflation-hedges ( inflation-adjusted ) currencies and an explicit currency futures market , can offset exchange-rate risk .
munich – since china pegged its undervalued currency , the renminbi , the us dollar , every weakening of the us dollar in the wake of america ’s financial crisis , the dollar also meant weakening the renminbi vis-à-vis other world currencies . but is china really to blame for the eruption of a global currency war ? south korea ’s central banks , brazil , taiwan , japan , switzerland , switzerland , and many other us countries are now buying dollars to protect their own currencies against revaluation , and thereby resisting their exports . europeans , too , have become nervous after the euro exchange rate rose in order to exceed $ 1.40 far beyond the purchasing power parity of the dollar ( ppp ) exchange rate of $ 1.17 . the united states is now taking drastic steps against china , and making provisions for a trade war .
but while those sources can provide valuable insights , they do not meet the standards of methodological rigor and conceptual clarity on which informed public debate should be based . for these reasons , researchers , media agencies , and civil-society organizations need to take a greater role . it is critical to develop an internationally recognized set of indicators and ways to track income and wealth . the government statistical agencies should publish the income and wealth levels of the top 1 % , 0.1 % , and 0.001 % , together with the effective taxes that these groups pay . to this end , a particularly important milestone comes with a review , owing to this in the next three years of the united nations system of national accounts .
eliminating federal health-insurance subsidies under the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) would save the government by some $ 100 billion a year , some 3 percent of federal spending . but those subsidies mostly pay for their own dedicated taxes . moreover , trump and congressional republicans are learning that replacing obamacare is easier said than done . health-care reform , as hillary clinton might have put it , is fearsomely complex . it is increasingly clear that the name will change ( “ “ primary care ” anyone ? ) , and it can be expected that the us republican plan would cover fewer people ; but much of it will remain the same .
during cardoso ’s tenure it privatized telecoms , a national mining company and part of the electric sector . inflation had fallen , but unemployment , public debt and urban violence all rose sharply . social inequalities soared , brazil suffered blackouts and electricity rationing last year . starting from the campaign , lula showed strength , particularly after a favored candidate , roseana sarney , crashed to burned when the federal police or prosecutors discovered cash load by her husband ’s offices . mr. and mrs. sarney were ultimately absolved by all charges , but not soon enough to save her candidacy .
in case , one thinks people receiving such a windfall would spend it on alcohol , gambling , or prostitution shows an independent assessment that they do not . giving money directly to cash transfers increases recipients ’ food security , mental health , and assets . for $ 450 million , you could also buy 180 million bed nets , with enough to protect 271 million people from malaria , as well as the number of children who receive such bed nets . ( because of all these interventions , the numbers are likely to be slightly smaller , because charity ’s impact calculator is not designed for such large sums , and so ignores the fact that costs will skyrocket once the needs of those who are easiest to reach have been met . ) when a person chooses to buy a “ salvator mchon ” rather than to rebuild sight to nine million people , what does this claim about its values ?
mail managers will also manage incoming messages , and facebook and linkedin , as well as other requests as specified by the recipient and will collect senders credit card information ( or , more likely , charge their paypal accounts or navigate other payment systems as they emerge ) to them . the recipient is not likely to see complexities ; most of that will be handled in the background . to start , you may simply set your price at , say , $ 1 , along with a list of people who can reach you for free . there will be lots of glitches at the beginning beginning , starting with people with multiple e-mail addresses , old friends not on the current white list of free senders , and so on . but these challenges will diminish over time as less mail gets sent , the higher the share that it wants , and the answers are made .
in trade and immigration , for example , bannon ’s acquired philosophy aligned with trump ’s political opportunism ( trump ’s more liberal , often democrat-backing former self , is another story to him ) . it was a mistake to see bannon as pygmalion to trump ’s galatea , or , as some have done , because of trump ’s white house rasputin . bannon reinforced the nationalist inclination that led trump to overrule his daughter , ivanka , and his own economic advisers by withdrawing from the paris climate agreement . and bannon intruded upon foreign policy , by getting himself placed on the us national security council for some time , until two of trump ’s fellow generals – national security adviser h. r. mcmaster and john kelly ( now chief of staff ) – got him removed . ( bannon believed to be behind the recent push to impeach mcmaster , largely by suggesting that he was “ anti-israel . ” )
they mistrust too much to cooperate . meanwhile , demand in most europeans is weak , ruling out the economic growth required to pay debts and offering hope that an unemployed 25 million are unemployed . parochial suspicion has been the main obstacle to grand solutions . nobody country ’s taxpayers have wanted to feel that they are paying for others ’ excesses : the single currency did not impose shared responsibility . so creditor countries headed by germany sought to do the bare minimum necessary to keep the euro alive , while borrowers grumbled impotently over germany ’s insistence on fiscal austerity .
cheap credit ushered in the euro fueled an inflationary economic bubble in southern europe that burst when the financial crisis hit . credit terms deteriorated abruptly , and what left was the thoroughly overpriced rump of economies that had become excessively reliant on foreign financing . the french economy , in turn , suffers because its customers in southern europe run into trouble . a study by goldman sachs , france would have to depreciate by around 20 % relative to the eurozone average and by about 35 % vis-à-vis germany , to restore external debt sustainability . the ecb and the international community – especially the international monetary fund – have attempted to cope with the crisis by substituting a dearth of private capital with public credit .
the same happens even if one reads philosophy , say , husserl . the author opens the fist pages , follows a set of questions for you to see how he achieves his conclusions . encyclopedias is never , of course , to be read cover as . if i want to know whether it was possible that napoleon met kant , i pick up volumes k and n and discover that napoleon had been born in 1769 and died in 1821 , and that kant was born in 1724 to die in 1804 . the two can be fulfilled .
letting them in might have produced a better team , but it would no longer be the team of our team . viewed from one perspective , this is just another case of emotion defeating economic logic . nevertheless , our emotions are the algorithms bequeathed by evolution by which we make most decisions , including political ones ; an analysis of economic cost-benefit analysis that does not connect to our emotional compass does not move the needle . at the heart of the issue is the sense of “ us . ” what does this mean to be an eu member , nigeria , iraq , turkey , switzerland , or any other political entity ?
islam and democracy are often supposed to be bitter antagonists , and the country is often considered bitter . a careful study of the 47 muslim-majority states of the world , however , shows that islam and democracy can and can coexist . the real gap is narrower : it is the arab world , not islam , which appears to loggerheads with democracy . this conclusion follows from comparing muslim countries with their “ electoral competitiveness ” to democracy . if a government sprang from reasonably fair elections , and an elected government can fill its leading political offices , the country is deemed “ electorally competitive . ”
( if anything , these standards are too burdensome . ) on the other hand , swiss bioengineer martin fussenegger correctly observed the venter achievement “ is a technical advance , rather than conceptual one . ” other scientists note that the organism was really just “ semi-synthetic , ” owing to the synthetic dna ( which comprises only about 1 % of cell ’s dry weight ) , the swiss bioengineer bacterium introduced into normal normal or non-synthetic . understanding the history of synthetic biology matters , because recognizing the right paradigm has critical implications for how governments regulate it , which in turn influences potential application and diffusion . thirty-five years ago , the american national institutes of health adopted overly risk-averse guidelines for research using recombinant dna or “ genetic engineering , ” techniques .
paris – with weak demand in advanced countries now impeding growth in emerging economies , including the major players in asia and latin america , many argue that the era of income convergence has already come to an end . nothing could be further from the truth . as i argued before , the convergence of emerging countries ’ real average incomes has probably continued in the aggregate , with advanced-country incomes likely to continue in 2020 . that process began in the late 1980 ’s and continued unabated , with the exception of the asian financial crisis in 1997-1998 . the pace of convergence accelerated further during and , just after , the 2008-2009 global financial crisis : the aggregate average differential of per capita income growth rose to more than four percentage points in the 2008-2012 period from a slightly greater than two percentage points before .
this belief fits the two main parties of politics . labour has sought to avoid a constitutional debate , because any move in the direction of federal institutions requires addressing the party ’s over-representation in the uk parliament . it is unfair to cede more power to the scottish parliament and to the parliament , while continuing to hand labour , which controls 41 scottish constituencies in the house of commons , disproportionately say over what happens in england . like conservatives , the party has allowed its beliefs to participate in the constituent union in the eu to foreclose any debate about how union can be modernized . if we are to prevent the uk from rattling to pieces , we must change the way we govern ourselves .
this means reaching out to public figures to demand on-the-track corrections , lodging complaints with standards bodies , and providing training to media organizations . it also means working with tech companies to find ways to prevent broader circulation of misinformation , including across international frontiers . at the same time , fact-checkers organizations should not simply focus on tackling fake information , but also on identifying sources of reliable information and pointing their readers and followers to them . and we should work with schools and other educational platforms to help teach people to identify false or misleading claims . this is the approach that our organizations take and because the small , under-resourced ones as they are , the impact is already apparent .
london – one of today ’s most dispiriting features of international debates is that the threat to humanity posed by the world ’s 23,000 nuclear weapons – and by those who build more or are only too willing to use them – has been consigned to the margin of policies . us president barack obama captured global attention with his 2009 prague speech , which made a compelling case for the nuclear weapon-free world . and , on a major new arms-reduction treaty with the us , he hosted a summit aimed at reducing nuclear vulnerability and material theft or diversion to the world . but nuclear issues remain fighting public resonance and political traction . it would take the brave gambler to bet upon ratification of america ’s comprehensive test ban treaty any time soon .
a developed economy , it seems , requires adequate , ongoing investment in public goods . but america ’s infrastructure state suggests that many decision-makers do not share this view . a 2013 report by the american society of civilian engineers gave america the pathetic overall grade of d + for its infrastructure . the report cited numerous state-specific shortcomings , including michigan ’s “ 88 high-hazard dams ( tmt ) , and 1,298 structurally deficient bridges ” and the $ 44.5 billion needed to upgrade drinking-water systems ” in california . the report concludes that $ 3.6 trillion in investment ( around one-fifth of the country ’s annual gdp ) will be required by 2020 to boost america ’s infrastructure quality by addressing the “ significant backlog ” of overdue maintenance [ and ] pressing for modernization . ”
the second myth presumes that prohibition reduces harm associated with drugs . global markets in cannabis , opium , and coca products basically resemble other global commodities markets , still global drug-control policies operate on the assumption that the drug markets are responsible for more in common with smallpox and other other infectious diseases for the absence of demand . governments can act unilaterally and multilaterally to regulate commodity markets , but they are a mistake to see prohibition as the ultimate or maximum form of regulation . in reality , prohibition represents the abdication of regulation . whichever way is suppressed effectively is unregulated , except by criminal organization .
this is for the best of reasons – the fish that catch up when they are too small will produce a small yield . moreover , the fish will not have a chance of reproduce , undermining the fish stock altogether . for example , the avowed intention of the eu ’s common fisheries policy is “ to protect fish resources by regulating the amount of fish taken from the sea , by permitting the use of young fish to reproduce and by ensuring that action is honored . ” as it stands , we have “ fished down ” our stocks until few large , old individuals remain . to see this to consider , for example , north sea cod .
official surveys insist that 86 % of russians – and usually 86 % – support him on everything from the annexation of crimea in the last few years as president . but putin ’s ambitions as a post-modern autocrat may be his achilles ’ achilles ’ heel . after all , autocrats often mistake their people ’s proclamations of love and admiration . the truth about what people truly feel can be impossible to know . with the russian economy stagnating , owing largely to international sanctions and kremlin counter-sanctions , discontent continues to simmer .
but it was arguably in hungary , the first country to seek a imf package that those practices were most widespread . yet this vulnerability has largely been created , or at least accommodated , by western banks . the funding from the parent banks in earlier times of the crisis helped to provide liquidity in east european banking systems today seems more a responsibility and a possible source of contagion . it was also the west european financial regulators and supervisors who , under “ home rule , ” were meant to discourage those excesses . the penetration of foreign banks also effectively deprived the countries of central and eastern europe of the monetary policy tools , leaving them with little control over extraordinarily rapid credit growth .
add to this mismanagement of ethnic and religious pluralism , stir up large , growing cohorts of unemployed and digitally connected youth , and offer the continent ideal conditions for mayhem . emulate countries elsewhere in the world , african governments have reacted mainly to violent extremism by bringing “ hard ” security first . but this strategy has not diminished the potency of extremist groups or constrained their reach . in fact , there is evidence showing that an exclusively military-driven response can be a waste of resources , or even a more harm than good ones . what is missing is an even deeper scrutiny of root causes , particularly underlying development challenges .
in addition , wherever health-care costs are paid to everybody – including the us , with its public-health programs for the poor and the elderly , the everyone pays the expense of efforts to treat cigarettes diseases . whether to prohibit cigarettes altogether is another matter , because doing so would no doubt generate a new source of revenue for organized crime . strangely , it appears to have held up that the state might , in principle , prohibit sales of a product but may not permit it to be sold only in packs that carry graphic images of the harm that it causes to human health . now , the tobacco industry will take up its battle against australia ’s legislation on the world trade organization . the industry worries that the law could copied in much larger markets like india and china .
the united nations framework convention refused to fund disaster preparedness efforts unless states demonstrate precisely how disaster they had feared was linked to climate change . according to a recent rand study , the united nations ’ funding for disaster loss-related research in 2003 amounted to roughly $ 127 million – only 7 % of the amount invested in climate-change research for this year . climate-changing policies are not the best way to mitigate weather disaster effects . during the 2004 hurricane season , the dominican republic – which invested in hurricane shelters and emergency evacuation nets – suffered fewer than ten deaths . in neighboring haiti , which was not prepared for the year , 2,000 lives were lost .
brisbane summit ’s signature achievement was to leverage the just-announced us-china emissions-reduction target into a formal g-20 endorsement of “ intense and effective action to resolve climate change . ” the g-20 ’s stance represents a powerful challenge to the rest of the world to achieve a global agreement at the united nations climate change conference in paris in december 2015 . ( all of this has dismayed australia ’s conservative host government that fought to prevent the issue from rising even ; the australian public , however , has been delighted , immediately knocked down prime minister tony abbott ’s approval rating in the post-summit polls for this and other embarrassments . ) other formal outcomes of the g20 meeting have been agreements – backed by more policy detail than most commentators had expected – to spur global growth . in particular , leaders have focused on investment , trading , competition , and efforts to bring more women to the workforce ; the fairness of the international tax system ; and how to target corruption .
if one is to impress upon russian president vladimir putin or other foreign dignitaries hosting them in such magistered setting as versailles is sure to prove effective . but the reveling in ukraine ’s monarchical history can be dangerous . many of those who voted to macron may have been hoping for twenty-first bonaparte . but now , one may think more of louis xvi , king who paid his life with faults of his predecessors . can macron learn from his flaws , regaining the confidence of french voters , who feel humiliated by him ?
and it is what the us economy got in the form of unprecedented fiscal stimulus and unthinkable political activism on the part of america ’s federal reserve . like they intervened , american policymakers consulted closely with their counterparts around the world , urging them to take supportive steps . and they did , culminating in one of history ’s most successful periods of global political coordination , involving both advanced and emerging economies . for many , the april 2009 global economic summit , held in london , marks a tipping point when the american economy had turned the corner . the change was so notable that many policymakers fell to the projecting a quick rebound , particularly given america ’s prior history of economic dynamism and resilience , only humbled by what has proven to be a protracted and complex process of recovery .
fear feeds on itself , a prediction that stocks will lose value becomes self-fulfilling . the 2008 recession triggered a collapse of the real-estate bubble . housing wealth in the us has fallen by 34 % since its peak in 2006 and continues to decline . the us stock market has fallen almost 50 % since its 2007 peak , and remains down by almost a third . this enormous loss of wealth created a large , persistent decline in consumption demand , resulting in a spike in unemployment .
the billionaire american casino holder sheldon adelson , for example , did not purchase las vegas review-journal in 2015 , or capture israeli media for money . as the media landscape increasingly lends itself to capture , so will political and corporate accountability . that is why the center for international media assistance has just released a new report shining a spotlight on the phenomenon – and calling upon solutions . free , healthy news media are critical to a well-functioning democracy , so they can not be . if the us is to protect the latter , it is imperative that the former are defending the costs at all .
until now , merkel had to deal with a weak or non-existent opposition . this will change very quickly , especially given the possibility of a nato troop build-up in afghanistan . from now on , she will require a trait that she lacks so far : leadership and decision-making skill . the victory of the black sea and the yellow has also defined an alternative : the red and dark red down , and the greens . old – left and right – political camps are back for now .
instead , we need to integrate transportation , housing , and land use , encourage dependence on public transportation , and make our streets pleasant and safe for walking ( particularly for women and those with disabilities and the disabled ) . a fourth challenge is to change how we produce and transport , and to eat our energy . this includes developing more efficient energy systems and boosting our investment in renewable sources ( which will , one hopes , create jobs in the process ) . we can also stimulate households to consume less energy , and the companies to reduce the amount of energy they waste . fifth , we must reform how we manage our water resources and infrastructure to re-harness this precious resource several times , as well as to the city-wide scale of this precious resource .
ramallah – israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu certainly has reason to celebrate . by securing a decisive electoral victory , he surprised nearly everyone , winning a third consecutive term in office after his right-wing likud party won a five-seat advantage in the knesset over its main rival , the center-left zionist union ( plo ) . but the celebration is likely to be short-lived . netanyahu finaghas led that outcome – renouncing his commitment to a two-state solution with palestine , pledging to pursue settlements on occupied land – will almost certainly have serious political and diplomatic consequences for israel . in recent years , netanyahu ’s hardline stance has increasingly undermined israel ’s international credibility , while convincing palestinians that living in the occupied territories that a genuine agreement with israel is impossible .
an early test of the kremlin ’s commitment to the minsk agreement should be whether it frees nadiya savchenko , ukraine ’s first female warplane pilot . savchenko , for more than two months , has been on a hunger strike in russia to protest her patently illegal incarceration against charges even more ridiculous than those for whom i imprisoned , for whom it was . of course , i hope that the new treaty will last finally bring about peace with ukraine . however unlikely , such an outcome , given the agreement ’s lack of any enforcement mechanisms , such as russia ’s automated eviction of the swift financial transfer system , should renege on any aspect to the deal . simply trusting the kremlin to “ goodwill ” would be reckless .
why waste precious time in air , safety checks , and waiting to see our luggage ? prior to anyone starts cutting travel budgets , let us try to understand why we need people to move beyond information . as a result of research on inclusive growth with mastercard and anonymized donation of data to the center for international development at harvard university , we are starting to shed some light on this mystery . in continued work with dany bahar , michele coscia , and frank neffke , we were able to establish some intriguing stylized facts . more populous countries have more entrepreneurial travel in both directions , yet volume is less than proportional to their populations : a country with 100 % more of the population than another has only about 70 % more business travel .
too many italians shrugged off their shoulders at berlusconi ’s lies and failings , figuring his own image would soon go away , doing little harm . but he did n’t go away and did too much harm . the us can not afford an equal mistake . the price of liberty americans fond of saying is eternal vigilance . confronting trump can not discount there .
and , though the government recognizes the need for growth-enhancing reform , its approach is all wrong . specifically , president ollanta humala recently championed legislative approval by a package of “ realistic ” processes to reduce red tape perceived to hamper investment in extractive industries – the very industries on which the economy should be less dependent . the new law seriously weakens peru ’s ability to regulate land uses , set environmental quality standards , and rein in corporate misconduct through environmental impact assessments . the peruvian government now faces a severe problem . beyond diminishing peru ’s international credibility to the us as a “ climate championed ” – an image that some government parliamentarians have been attempting to cultivate – the law jeopardizes peru ’s natural environment and economic-growth prospects .
fifa and the government ’s response to brazil ’s recent protests puts their risks at what paquim exhibit commemorates : the rebirth of freedom and democracy . the problem for rousseff ’s government , which was herself imprisoned , was tortured under an army regime , is that brazilians know exactly what is at stake . when pundits weigh up on emerging powers such as brazil and india , they typically point toward the rise of the middle classroom and booms at education and connectivity . but they seldom appreciate the texture of their democracy and civil society – that relative newness of hard-won freedoms and intimate understanding of what tyranny , whether homegrown dictatorship , or colonial governance , means individual liberty . ( still much less notice the role that women ’s empowerment and feminism has played in development . )
how can nato help that ? nato is directly capable of doing nothing ; indirectly , it can do much . nato is no longer merely a military alliance , and nato can have a military alliance . the eu is now a military-political alliance that sets the democratic norms of the new members and aspirants . no romanian government can neglect these norms .
a revolutionary delusion has broken down , leaving behind only the tyrannical rule of a class of corrupt tycoons – effectively a mafia – that purchased military loyalty with massive cash bonuses and lucrative oil-smuggling and drug-trafficking deals . mafia opponents are repressed , often brutally . from the perspective of political prisoners , maduro ’s venezuela has joined ranks between china , cuba , and turkey . one might expect us president donald trump ’s administration to minimize maduro ’s repressive practices . but trump has also been quick to recognize the opposition leader , juan guaidó , as interim heads of state , after guaidó , with widespread support among venezuelans invoked a constitutional provision to challenge maduro ’s legitimacy .
but so far , efforts to lower funding costs have had limited effects . indeed , the weighted average interest rate on bank credit to nonfinancial firms remains close to 7 % , with economic growth having edged down from 7.4 % annually in the past three months to 7.3 % in the current quarter , in order to reach a record low in the last three months . the situation may not be dire yet , but it is far from ideal – particularly at a time when the chinese authorities are pursuing structural reform . the pboc now faces a dilemma . if it loosens monetary policy further – to the extent that cutting banks ’ reserve requirement ratio – the momentum for restructuring could disappear ; and there can be no guarantee that additional liquidity would flow into the real economy .
drafted with the resolution of the un 181 ( which partitioned palestine in 1947 ) , such a move would reaffirm the establishment of a palestinian state and a jewish state , one based on the 1967 borders , with mutually agreed border adjustments and security arrangements . while such an approach would certainly fall short of maximalist palestinian demands , it would embrace the parameters outlined in may by us president barack obama ’s administration . it would also indirectly address the israeli government ’s demand that the palestinians recognize a “ jewish state . ” such a vote would also address international calls for bilateral diplomacy . instead of closing its doors , such a redefinition of the un bid for statehood would provide the entire palestinian leadership with much-needed symbolic successes , including a framework from which to restart negotiations – longstanding palestinian demand .
given that ongoing changes in manufacturing means have already started this trend , gates and some in the european parliament have suggested that robots be taxed to pay for human services . whether that is the best solution is now the topic of much debate ; but , clearly , some kinds of compromise will have to be crafted . robotics and ai will also raise profound ethical questions for liberal politicians , particularly regarding privacy and safety . fortunately , there is a broader political consensus on this issue than taxation . the european parliament has proposed a voluntary code of conduct for engineers and others that are working in robotics .
" everything is going about . " so goes a refrain in a famous argentine song . but actually , in argentina everything stays the same or becomes worse . heraclitus 's warnings against bathing in the same sea twice disappear on our economic ministers , which insist on bathing regularly in contaminated waters . whenever they bathing , they follow the same path , first raising concerns over what happens if argentina pays back its foreign debt , and then inevitably repaying its debt back under intense pressure from the international monetary fund and the u.s. .
shanghai – as the international order becomes all the more fragmented , strong global-governance institutions are critical to addressing the world ’s strategic , economic , and sustainability challenges . and yet rarely are our existing institutions – including , most important , the united nations – frailer . the un is not broke down ; it is in trouble , especially because it treat more countries as a polite diplomatic afterthought and is seeking solutions for the major global problems elsewhere . we have seen this on issues ranging from syria to iran , north korea , terrorism , cyber security , asylum-seekers , and refugees , migration , ebola , and the emerging humanitarian-aid crisis . while the un still has a number of strengths , it also has clear structural vulnerabilities .
the decision to launch february 15 as the day of mass protest apparently took place at a meeting of activists at the european social forum in florence in november last year . in ninety days , these organizers turned out more than five million protestors worldwide , with nearly 50 % of the total population of the largest population . there are three keys to this phenomenon : the internet has enabled the rapid spread of organizational plans at extraordinarily low cost to the organizers . mass action depends on local organizations seizing the initiative , based on loose global plan .
how better to memorialize that decision than to build the housing boom ? the new facility that the money will be earmarked would house 106 prisoners ( the precise number is uncertain ) who have been neither tried nor charged at all . now 8 prisoners entered the second month of hunger strike , and eight of them are now under pressure from a us president who is under attack . according to america ’s spokesman , who oversees gitmo , hunger strikers are disillusioned because they believed obama ’s pledge to close gitmo . indeed , they are being cleared for leaving , and it is only obama ’s failure to keep his promise – and the american congress ’s inability to legislate their transfers – that keeps them there .
flows of technology or innovation ( ict ) , and flows of technology ( ai ) and the rest of the world , would encourage the development of globally competitive , productivity-enhancing solutions ; decreased flows would undermine global productivity . likewise , the world can decide how to facilitate more or fewer flows of technologies that are becoming more subject to safety reviews . according to our simulation , $ 8-12 trillion could at stake , depending on the extent to which technology flows unleash innovation and productivity growth . it is important to note that these choices are not just in china ’s ; the world also has decision-making to make . for starters , by working together to reform the global trading system in ways that reinforce dispute resolution and boost inclusiveness , countries could ensure that the benefits of an increase in chinese ( and other ) trade are broadly shared .
whereas greece remains mired in depression , iceland – which is not the eurozone – has essentially recovered . to be sure , as the american economist barry eichengreen has argued in 2007 , technical considerations make exiting the eurozone difficult , expensive , and dangerous , to the point . but that is only one side of the ledger . using iceland as the us measuring stick , the cost to greece does not exiting the eurozone equivalent of 75 % of gdp annually – and counting on it for the rest of the world . it is hard to believe that if greece abandoned the eurozone in 2010 , the economic fallout would represent an even one-quarter that .
last march , rumors circulated that he was losing the vote , maliki asserted that state security would be threatened if he lost , noting his responsibility to sustain order . when he did lose , he demanded recount , not as a candidate , but in his capacity as commander-in-chief . the fact that maliki , despite his incumbency , was unable to secure a second term seven months after elections attests to widespread opposition to his continued rule among iraq ’s political class . there is only one way to explain the bush administration ’s decision to exert such diplomatic pressure in favor of iran ’s favorite in iraq : obama ’s pledge during his presidential election campaign to disengage iraq during his first term . in this way , obama follows president george w. bush ’s example of allowing the american election agenda rather than americans – not to mention iraq – national interest , dictate the us iraq policy .
in their emphasis on the importance of signal , economics enters postmodernist territory . signal – in this case , the promise of a equilibrium on books – generates reality . people start behaving like that , even though the books were balanced , ignoring . when one believes that narrative , one acts in ways that make it come true . in fact , i do not believe that osborne himself has increasingly attached importance to signaling the effects of his pronouncements .
in response to dwindling donor funds , ghanaian governments brought private-sector leaders together to launch ghana ’s malaria foundation , which are now working to fill urgent funding gaps , but ultimately will help to lead the country toward sustainable , domestic efforts to eradicate malaria . this is a challenging moment in the fight against malaria . but it is also a moment of opportunity . for its part , novartis recently announced that it will invest more than $ 100 million in antimalarial r & d over the next five years , helping to contain the disease ’s rising resistant strains . our focus now is on completing clinical trials for the two promising new antimalarial drug candidates .
if sunnis come to believe that shi’a and kurds intend to treat them as second-class citizens , they would have little stake in maliki ’s government ’s success , and it could once again begin to pursue their own political interests through other means , provoking yet another surge of sectarian violence . making matters worse still , a factional conflict would undermine further developments in the post-saddam iraqi identity . otherwise , various interest groups in the country might , like lebanon ’s feuding factions , turn to outsiders in negotiating solutions to their problems . there are good grounds why iraq should avoid lebanon ’s example in this respect . even in the best of times , lebanon muddles through a politically dysfunctional government and an army operating in the shadow of the large shia-dominated militant organization .
america had trade deficits of 101 countries in 2015 – a multilateral problem stemming from a saving shortfall that can not be addressed effectively through country-specific “ remedies . ” that is not to say that america ’s trading partners should let the hook for unfair practices . but it does mean little hope for resolving seemingly chronic trade deficits – and the related erosion of domestic hiring traceable to these imbalances – if america does not start saving again . alas , this plot is about to thicken . trumponomics , it seems , seems likely to exacerbate america ’s saving shortfall in the years ahead .
throughout the arab world , the fall of baghdad on april 9th is seen as the day of shame resembles june 5th 1967 , when israel defeated armies in three arab countries to conquest the west bank , the gaza strip , and east jerusalem only six days on . arab intellectuals , and indeed , the broader arab public , are now busy attempting to analyze and understand the lessons of the iraq earthquake . meanwhile , supporters of former ba’athist regime in iraq and elsewhere are now busy advocating for the same old totalitarian thinking . their tactic has been to block a clear review of the iraq catastrophe by suggesting that any criticism of saddam ’s regime is tantamount to supporting the american-inspired occupation of iraq . fahd al-fanek , for example , the former ba’ath party ’s former prime minister , now columnist for a jordanian newspaper al-fanek .
meanwhile , the lower current-account surpluses ( as a share of gdp ) could stem from its rising investment-income shortfall . and , while recovery in the advanced economies boosted exports , persistent overcapacity , combined with slower household-consumption growth than in 2012 , caused the growth of investment , albeit still rapid , to decline to its lowest level over the last 11 years . more broadly , one country can run current-account deficit , or current-account surpluses steadily for decades . but china ’s chronic current-account surpluses are problematic . given that china remains among the world ’s poorest countries , per capita income of less than $ 7,000 , its position as the world ’s largest capital exporter signifies a gross misallocation of resources .
madrid – on july 29 , according to the world food sustainability organization ’s global footprint network , humanity will have used the earth ’s resource budget to its entire year . that “ earth overshoot day ” moved forward to an astonishing two months , and will arrive sooner in 2019 than ever before . though mankind ’s increasing impact manifests itself in many ways , climate change has the broadest , longest-lasting implications . carbon dioxide emissions from burning fossil fuels account for an estimated 60 % of our ecological footprint . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
the economic boom has been the one source of legitimacy left by the one-party state . few people , even party members , still believe in marxism-leninism , let alone maoism . and widespread discontent with official corruption and political oppression , in all regions of china , amply demonstrated this . the communist government managed to remain in power after tiananmen square not only through brute force . a semblance of political legitimacy , especially among an educated middle class , was bought with its promise of even greater wealth .
but , given urgent housing and infrastructure shortfalls worldwide , this is no longer sustainable . urbanization can leveling its course in many advanced economies , but this will continue in emerging countries . the world ’s 20 largest cities , 75 % of which are in asia , will be needed to generate roughly 36 million new housing units by 2025 . moreover , in 2014 , an estimated 330 million urban households lived in substandard housing or struggled financially , owing to housing costs ; that figure is projected to rise to 440 million by 2025 . even in an advanced economy like the united states , more than 40 % of california ’s population can not afford decent housing at market levels .
berkeley – one need not be particular good at hearing to decipher dog whistles that year ’s election campaign in the united states is being used . listen even briefly , and you will understand that mexicans and chinese work with wall street to forge lousy trade deals that rob america of their rightful jobs in order to blow everyone up . all this fear mongering is scarier than ordinary election-year fare . it is frightening to people in foreign countries , who can conclude only that voters in the world ’s only superpower have become dangerously non-aligned . and it is frighten to americans , who until recently believed – or , perhaps hope , are living at the heart of a republic based on the traditions established by george washington , abraham lincoln , and teddy and franklin roosevelt .
put in these terms , the problem always solves by giving more money to those with the most political power . professor nicolrossi , economic advisor to prime minister massimo d’alema , in the title of his recent book , expresses the wish for the us to “ give less to fathers and to sons more . ” but if unions are powerful or seniors are majority in most of them ( in italy the two coincide because seniors are the majority in all labor unions ) , the precise opposite happens . italy ’s recent budget , which neither confronted the issue of pensions , nor the topic of fiscal reform , demonstrates this fully . here is the grand delusion of italy ’s budget and finance ministry .
oslo – education is a human right ; it is a human right , too . and it can not be taken for granted , too . worldwide , 59 million children and 65 million adolescents are out of school . more than 120 million children worldwide , while no longer primary education is fully educated , are not at all . beyond these figures are children and young men being denied not just the right , but the opportunities : a fair chance to get a decent job , escape poverty , support their families , and develop their communities .
small farmers , both women and men , are africa ’s largest agricultural investors ; the continent ’s largest single market . and agriculture-driven gdp growth is more than twice as effective in reducing poverty as growth in other sectors . but african farmers encounter significant barriers to reach their potential . on average , they apply fewer than 10 kilograms of fertilizers per hectare , compared to 140 kilograms in india . furthermore , fewer than 5 % of farmland irrigated , and improved crop varieties are rarely used .
the question is whether they are prepared by decision-makers . obviously , most eu governments are not . but why are developing-country governments dragging down their feet ? are the risks so high that they justify suffering which could have been avoided ? gm foods have now been on the us market in excess of 12 years .
of the roughly $ 200 trillion in global finance assets today , nearly three-quarters are in some form of debt instrument , including bank loans , corporate bonds , and government securities . surely , the derivatives market helps spread risk more widely than this superficial calculation implies . surely , there are some good economic reasons why lenders have such insatiable appetite for debt . imperfect information and the difficulty of monitoring firms pose significant barriers to idealized risk-sharing instruments . but policy-induced distortions play a massive role , too .
italian exports to china currently total roughly € 13 billion ( $ 14.7 billion ) annually in total , while imports amounted to roughly € 29 billion . moreover , a partnership with china could attract the additional capital inflows that italy sorely needs , given constrained lending by its banks . while italy has received around € 14 billion in chinese investment since 2000 , the chinese firms invested € 10.5 billion in 55 bri countries in the first ten months of 2018 alone , signing bri projects worth more than $ 80 billion . there are several compelling reasons , however , why italy should not go down this bilateral bri route with china , but rather deepen engagement with it , as part of the eu ’s 2016 strategy toward china . for starters , italy ’s interest may not align itself with those of china .
after years of economic stagnation and even crisis , the public ’s patience has worn thin . to be sure , many latin american leaders have been on the rise to power in recent decades to promise leveling the playing field . and their interventions – including income redistribution , fiscal and monetary expansion , protectionism , discriminatory regulation , and capital-account controls – have generated some short-term benefits , particularly to the poor . but such measures have often been harrowing over populism and eventually done more harm than good . indeed , relying on commodity revenue to fund their social-welfare programs , these leaders failed to diversify their economies , or to improve their economic fundamentals , in turn .
his eloquent resignation letter made clear that he objected not just to the syrian blunder , but to a pattern of behavior : trump ’s confusion about allies and opponents ; his willingness to abandon his friends , like the kurds ; and his trashing of alliances like nato . mattis ’s friends explained in tv interviews that what most troubled a retired four-star marine general and defense intellectual , not just that he can no longer influence policy , but also that his remaining in the cabinet has taken as a confirmation of trump , an position that could no longer be taken . even that doughty loyalist , senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , issued statements on thursday that he was “ distressed ” by mattis ’s departure ( significant sign , many believe mcconnell ’s private worry about trump ’s effect on the republican party ( a major sign . ) members of congress have expressed outright fear by a trump presidency with no guardrails . the list of departures from trump ’s administration is unprecedentedly long overdue .
the government has been strengthening its security system and has put itself in place an ubiquitous system of surveillance cameras . visas are being denied to anybody who is active in the name of human rights , with the unintended side effect of harming international business in china . but china ’s priority is not just perpetuate economic growth . rather , it is encouraging growth while safeguarding its monopoly power . the regime is set to prove to a world that , once again , china may be on the brink of spectacular performance and that its voice will take notice .
he will have to become a internationalist left-leaning leader , or an internationalist right-leaning . only one of these appears tenable . the traditional center-right policies would not easily be reconciled with a strong internationalist bent . if the forces of globalization , in its various dimensions , support popular majority , they will have to follow suit , they will have to accompany modernized social policies that provide effective aid to those who need it . at a time of continuous economic disruptions , this will be all the more relevant .
but there is one alternative that might help appease angry citizens and mitigate the revenue loss from the outright ban on smoking : electronic cigarettes . given that e-cigarettes merely heat the nicotine solution to produce an inhalable vapor , they release none of the carcinogenic tar of cigarette smoking , making them the ideal “ apollo ” delivery system for smokers seeking – or being forced – to reduce or halt their tobacco intake . aside from being far less harmful than cigarettes , e-cigarettes are homegrown , invented in china in 2003 . but , despite substantial progress in china ’s e-cigarette industry – in 2013 , shenzhen province housed 900 devices that are available , up 200 % from 2012 , and accounted for more than 95 % of global cigarette manufacturing – traditional cigarettes still dominate the chinese market . as yanzhong huang of the us council on foreign relations recently pointed out , “ as long as only 1 % of china ’s smoking population turned to e-cigarettes would mean a market of roughly 3.5 million e-cigarette users . ”
the reason that un climate conferences keep failing , is straightforward : their agendas – centered on voluntary , quantitative goals – are fundamentally flawed . agreeing on quantitative , universally applied emissions-reduction targets at the united nations conference is a simple matter . but countries automatically regard adherence to the targets as sacrifice : as part of an effort to cut emissions by x tons , the us would lose out to y million jobs ; and gdp would fall to $ z billion . because there are none of actual sanctions nor penalty for failure when pushing comes to shove , governments can simply change their minds . even though a us government attempts to keep its commitments on , say , by imposing new regulations on high-emitting industries , it may not obtain desired results .
while china provides only 4 % of value-added components to apple at low prices , it supplies core components . apple can not build an iphone from scratch in the us , so it would need to find alternative suppliers , raise its production costs considerably . that would give chinese smartphone enterprises the opportunity to seize market shares from the major players . today , 80 % of global trade comprises international supply chains ; it also means the us . declining business costs have allowed companies to splinter their production lines geographically , with goods processed and value added in multiple countries together .
finance economists view luck-based compensation as a indication of governance problems . third , the higher ceo pay slice is associated with weaker accountability for poor performance . in firms with a high ceo pay slice , the probability of a ceo ’s turnover after bad performance ( controlling for the ceo ’s length of service ) is lower . lower sensitivity of turnover to performance reflects less-than-willing pay slice of the executive to discipline the ceo . finally , firms with a higher ceo pay slice are more often given opportunities for their ceo to grants to be opportunistically timed .
there is only one europe , despite its diversity . any weighty occurrence provokes implications across the continent . if europeans become one , if europe is to adopt the new postcommunist democracies – one that has a common interest in all europe – several of the critical tasks needed to take place within the new democracies must be undertaken , as well as within the euro-atlantic and atlantic communities . to begin now , europeans need to foster community in the postcommunist countries by restoring civil society . for a living society can not be restructured from above .
the eu and the us must remain firm and unified in their policies toward russia . that approach offers the best chance of bringing the current confrontation to an end , and compelling russia to participate constructively with the west . of course , if cooperation is to work , russia needs to earn the trust that has broken it , demonstrating its commitment to abide by treaties and international norms of behavior toward which it has agreed . when it comes to russia today , appeasement will not lead to peace ; on the contrary , a conciliatory approach will prolong the conflict alone . the sooner the west convinces the leaders of russia that it will not go back , the sooner the conflict will end .
nine times out for ten , nothing really serious is happening - merely slightly distress by individuals or groups . but we run the tenth risk … . today , greece 's european lenders seem ready to abandon their solemn pledges on the irrevocability of the euro to insist to rally some crumbs from the country 's pensioners . should they press their demands , forcing greece toward the exits , the world will never again trust longevity in the longevity of the euro . at a minimum , weaker members of the eurozone will undergo increased market pressures .
it is surely preferable to a plutocracy in which wealth determines status , or to a gerontocracy in which age leads one to the top , or even an aristocracy , in which what counts are inherited titles and characteristics . so meritocracy appears preferable , to say the least . on closer inspection , however , things are no less simple . france has long been the epitome of meritocracy for many . most those at the top reach , not just the civil service and judiciary , but also politics , business , and academia used to be graduates of the famous grandes écoles .
at american most elite universities , for example , only around 9 % of students come from the bottom half of the world ’s population , while 74 % come out of the top quarter . most societies recognize the moral obligation to help to ensure that young people can live up to potential . some countries even impose their constitutional mandate for equality of educational opportunities . but in america , more is spent on rich students ’ education than education for the poor . as a result , the us wastes some of its most valuable assets , with some young people – bereft of skills – turning to dysfunctional activities .
the au has now threatened sudan ’s new rulers with suspension of this group unless power is transferred to civilian authority . even if sudan ’s military leaders succumb to au pressure , however far political stability is guaranteed . for several decades , le pouvoir used oil revenue to buy relative public quiescence through massive subsidies . yet those reserves were concentrated in the south , and so was lost when southern sudan seceded in 2011 . and now the political stability is gone .
istanbul – the challenge of ensuring adequate , nutrient-rich food for an expanding global population poses daunting challenges , especially owing to constraints on key sources like water and agricultural land . as it stands , both leading approaches to enriching and enlarging the world ’s food supply are genetic engineering and industrial processing with additives and chemicals . a third solution is now emerging : vertical farming . academic studies have found locally cultivated vertical farms ( gm ) – stacked greenhouses , which use an artificial light to growing crops – can provide significant savings that could then be passed together to consumers . but questions about such farms ’ basic economics , particularly for commodity crops , persisted .
what this implies is that the problem is political . pensioners are , in a democracy , among the most powerful lobbies , and politicians loath to confront them on so fundamental an issue . still , we need to confront squarely intergenerational issues at the heart of today ’s economic dilemmas . our pension systems , and our national budgets , are bound to be based on “ generational accounting ” , which assures that the economic risk spreads systematically across generations . what this means is that pension and tax institutions must be designed to take better account of changing circumstances confronting different generations , rather than making fixed-promises – most likely to be kept , in any case -- of some payout in the future .
lower financing costs for public debt seem to be net gains to society because the government then saves on service debt and can keep taxes lower . but any lower tax gains do more than compensate the losses for the private sector , which , facing higher financing costs , will invest less , in turn lowering economic gdp – and thus cutting government revenues . many steps have been taken in recent years to reinforce regulation of the banking system . but what is now proposed will make lending to investment even less attractive , and increase incentives to concentrate sovereign risk within the banking sector . this can only aggravate europe ’s sovereign-debt problem and weaken its already meager growth prospects .
the plo succeeded in acquiring european support for a unilateral palestinian declaration of statehood . indeed , the only remaining obstacle to palestinian leaders is american . when palestinians asked mitchell for assurances that the us would support such a statehood declaration if talks failed , mitchell responded that no such commitment would make peace negotiations pointless . instead , the americans have their own ideas on how to achieve a breakthrough , especially with israel , which the obama administration believes is now the major barrier . to change israel , the americans are launching various trial balloons .
the commercial calculus behind this business sometimes incited riots until anatomy laws permitted the bodies of executed murderers and those unclaimed to be dead to be applied , thus reassuring middle - and upper class individuals that their bodies would not have to do with . these old tensions assumed new dimensions as the commercial potential of human tissues catches entrepreneurial imagination . yet few laws are at hand in addressing the use of cells , tissues , and genes . the most familiar case regarding body ownership is john moore , a patient who developed hairy cell leukemia and had a spleen removed at the ucla school of medicine in 1976 . his physician patented certain chemicals in moore ’s blood without his knowledge or consent , setting up contracts , and selling the rights of the swiss pharmaceutical company to manufacture drugs from the “ mo ’ cell line . ”
but germans undaunted to it all , simply keep celebrating one great soccer party with its newfound friends from around the world . black , red , and gold german tricolor adorns the whole country as never before , but nearly nowhere are nationalist undertones . in fact , the flags of a many nations fly alongside germans . in berlin , as in other large german cities , taxis sport flags for their drivers home countries – from angola to saudi arabia . fans don not just their peoples ’ flags , but also fantastic costumes evocative of their homeland ’s colors .
in the meantime , the epidemic ’s death toll has continued to mount . to prevent ebola from escalating further , the relevant actors – from health workers to government officials – must be re-engagement with affected communities and won their trust back then . fortunately , as neighboring rwanda has proven , this is entirely possible . in 1994 , rwanda endured a brutal genocide in which an estimated 800,000 people were killed in the space of just 100 days . thisharrowing experience left behind destroyed property , failed status , and a traumatized population with little faith in local or international institutions.national basic immunization coverage amounted to less than 30 % .
at the anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders – together with business and civil society representatives – will have a critical opportunity to act on this recognition . throughout history , corruption is decried . it existed as long as government ; but , like other crimes , it had been increasing increasingly sophisticated over recent decades , with potentially devastating consequences on the wellbeing and dignity of countless innocent citizens . for starters , corruption cripples development prospects . when , say , public-procurement fraud is rampant , or royalties for natural resources are stolen at source , or the private sector monopolized by the narrow network of cronies , populists are unable to realize their potential .
the protests began when the government attempted amnesty legislation that overturned former prime minister thaksin shinawatra ’s conviction – yingluck ’s brother and ptp ’s founder , overthrew by the military in 2006 – on charges of corruption and abuse of power . ( it would also have superseded the murder charges brought against the leader of the democratic party ( akp ) , former prime minister abhisit vejjajiva . ) but yingluck ’s subsequent effort to back track on amnesty measures failed to mollify the opposition . in fact , the street protests have intensified , fueled by renewed grievance . yingluck ’s government rejected the constitutional court ’s rejection of a bill to alter the senate from a half-appointed chamber to a fully elected chamber .
new presidents from the european commission , the european council and the european central bank will be nominated and a new high representative for foreign affairs and security policy . if nationalist euroskeptic parties become the largest group in the european parliament , such appointments could represent an abrupt break from the recent past . eu member states are more divided now than ever , despite even the most fundamental issues surrounding the european project . the broad pro-european consensus of the past has been replaced by a resurgent nationalism . moreover , east is increasingly pitted against the west and the north against south .
freetown , sierra leone , donors – like the world bank and the world health organization often urge developing countries to invest in domestic health systems . but , while rushing into the establishment of clinics and other medical facilities in even remotest regions may seem like a straightforward approach to ensuring universal health coverage , which has not turned out to be true . west africa ’s recent ebola epidemic highlighted the pressing need for stronger , more efficient , and more resilient health-care systems in developing countries . but when countries rush to build more clinics , the resulting facilities tend to be hastily constructed and lacked in equipment , supplies , and staff needed to deliver vital health services effectively . in my frequent visits to rural areas of ma native sierra leone , i have seen more than a few health facilities that communities could have without .
to be sure , if wilson were alive today , he would perhaps agree with trump on some issues , though his proposed solutions would be very different . wilson , for example , would most likely concur with trump that the level of openness in global markets today is excessive . what is actually problematic is that america ’s banks and businesses could export capital , technologies , and jobs as they please , with little or no regard to domestic costs . but wilson ’s solution would probably focus on developing and implementing improved regulations through a multilateral process dominated by democracies . he would also probably advocate a fiscal policy aimed at advancing the common good , with higher taxes on the richest corporations and households funding – say , infrastructure development , quality education and universal health care .
but , in march 2010 , in a move i believed that was key to our subsequent growth , i announced “ english english shnization , ” a blueprint aimed at making english our corporate language within a period of a period of less or two . the goal lay the groundwork for the global expansion of an industry competing aggressively for internet-savvy talents . when i announced english english english english language , only 10 % of us workforce was proficient . unsurprisingly , some in my team were apprehensive ; others , especially those outside the firm , thought i had some crazy . but , just seven years later , corporate titans of japan are looking for our advice in how to build the global brand headquartered in japanese capital .
but this would only further weaken bank lending portfolios at a time when european regulators are desperate to strengthen them . the ecb ’s decision to provide unlimited liquidity to banks does not resolve governments ’ debt challenges or that its intended objective . at the very least , however , it is preventing the debt problem from creating banking problems , which , in turn , worsen the debt-ridden problem . europe ’s second vicious spiral is running from fiscal consolidation to a sluggish growth rate and a return to fiscal consolidation . tax increases and cuts in public spending continue to be desired ; no avoiding this reality is possible .
add to economics to this prescription just as well as it is . pricing regulations and other ill-considered features of european policy contribute to the fact that 60 % of the world ’s new drugs develop in the us , compared to just 40 % only ten years ago . this sterility and inertia make europe less and less exciting for americans . so americans ’ eyes turn elsewhere : to china , with its 1.3 billion people and an economy growing at 8-10 % , year in and year out ; and to india , with its 1.1 billion people and 6 % annual growth , india has a decade to come . indeed , india now has some of the world ’s greatest engineers , its technicians , and health-care professionals .
but they will probably die much more quickly if they suddenly contact , bringing us modern pathogens against which they have no antibodies . these tribes might be isolated , though their demise will face severe consequences . with their reverence for – and understanding of – nature , such groups serve as the world ’s environment sentinels , safeguarding 80 % of global diversity , and playing a critical role in climate change mitigation , and adaptation . when the devastating 2004 indian ocean tsunami struck , more than quarter-million people died across 14 countries , but the two isolated andaman tribes , relying on traditional early-warning systems , suffered no known casualties . but , with bolsonaro ’s promise underscore , indigenous societies pitted directly against loggers , miners , crop planters , oil drillers , hunchers , hunter-hunts , and other interlopers .
indeed , in my former professional roles , i witnessed as few others joining poland and hungary into euro-atlantic institutions . i saw firsthand the eagerness and hoping of their peoples at that momentous time . that is why it is so hard for me to understand their position today . not unreasonable , of course , is poland and hungary whose sovereignty was largely usurped by the soviet union , which have been particularly susceptible to external efforts to shape their decision-making and hold a more strong sense of national identity than other eu countries . yet , rejecting the eu will not insulate them from the uncertainty resulting from globalization .
no particular country or group has created international maritime rule as it is now in place . it is the product of humanity ’s collective wisdom , cultivated over great many years of human wellbeing for all . today , many of the benefits for humanity depend on the seas from the pacific to the indian oceans remaining completely open . but what , exactly , will that actually mean ? if we distill the spirit that we infused into international law over the age , reformulate it as three principles , the rule of law at sea becomes a matter of collective purpose .
when perpetrators of sexual violence are invited to take note in high-profile settings such as the un , it will become hard for individual states to ignore activists ’ demands . to be sure , effective solutions need to consider local context . sexual violence can take many forms ; understanding its possible purpose can help predict and impede its use . for example , armed groups that use power as a recruiting tool are often more likely to commit egregious forms of sexual violence than groups that recruit through other means . moreover , those living in the shadow of armed groups with genocidal goals have a higher risk of targeted sexualized violence – for example , forced pregnancies .
because an enlarged union turns into a reality within just two months , concepts for cultural understanding that contribute to the new members ' successful integration will be imperative . some values , long espoused by the union , should be relatively easy to convey . a decade ago by the maastricht treaty , the eu agreed to respect the history , culture , and traditions of all their constituent peoples . the draft constitution , which recently failed to gain acceptance during the first round of negotiations not only promises to respect the cultural heritage ; it obliges union to participate actively to protect , preserve , and develop the richness of europe 's cultural and linguistic diversity . but europe can succeed in this endeavor only if its various constituent cultures do not seal themselves off from the rest of its society .
if successfully implemented , that agenda is likely to reverse global savings and consumption patterns that have underpinned the large imbalances of recent years . while the us is responsible for the saving side , while the american disproportionately accounts for a consumption side , ultimately turning the chinese into america ’s creditors . to be sure , global savings and consumption patterns have undergone major change since the financial crisis , with both western and china trying to re-establish internal equilibrium . doubling average household incomes by 2020 – the target set at the chinese communist party ’s 18th national congress in november – will likely unleash the 64 trillion renminbi ( $ 10.3 trillion ) in purchasing power , with china ’s huge internal market gradually becoming the country ’s new long-term drivers of domestic and international growth . this model presupposes that china develops domestic capital rather than simply relying on foreign investment .
i understand reding ’s reticence – and frustration with it . i do n’t like quotas either ; they ran counter to the belief in meritocracy . however , when one considers the barriers to achieving a meritocratic ideal , it does look as if a fairer world needs to be temporarily mandated . after all , four decades of evidence have now proven to corporations in europe , as do the us evading meritocratic hiring and promotion of women to top positions – regardless of how much “ soft pressure ” puts them in the process . when women break through the corporate summit – for example , sheryl sandberg recently did at facebook – they garner massive attention precisely because they remain the exception of the rule .
new delhi – in 2009 , when i competed in india ’s last parliamentary election , i was something of a rarity . i was , by contrast , not a professional politician . by contrast , all of the other candidates of my constituency – indeed , most contenders throughout the country – had devoted their lifetime to politics , many since their student days . i was not born to a political family ; i had no seat or political fiefdom to inherit ; and i went on to enter the race without a political “ godfather ” . i had not even lived in india for a decade , having spent life working abroad to the united nations .
in the end , however , a failed experiment failed . the fdp abandoned the frustration with its leader , christian lindner , into submission , “ the four discussions partners have no common vision for modernizing their country or a shared foundation of trust . ” even without jamaica ’s coalition , germany still has a stable , liberal majority in the bundestag . equally can not be said of the rest of the eu , where nearly any other member state is now a “ 50-50 society ” : half cosmopolitan , half communitarian . in these countries , a government at all times represents whichever side has won the latest round in the ongoing culture war .
for starters , every country needs to define online child trafficking crime and incorporate it into its national penal codes alongside tough punishments for violators . all recruitment activities , ad advertising and financial transactions linked with online child trafficking should also be criminalized . raising awareness about amr also is crucial – particularly in developing countries , where illiteracy , poverty , and an age-appropriate gender education in school can leave children even more vulnerable . parents must build trust bridges to make sense that their children feel open to their problems . faith leaders , too , should educate and sensitize their followers to this view .
moreover , communities need to increase access to contraceptives and more sexual-health services , and we need to expand access to contraception and other sexual and reproductive health services ; one way to do that would be to revive or establish youth-friendly spaces and centers where information is possible to share them . after school and weekends , these spaces should open up , staffed with knowledgeable , sympathetic adults . special attention must be devoted to rural regions , and those with special needs , often-overlooked youth segments . these reforms are critical to improving guyana ’s young people ’s livelihoods prospects . if more teenagers access to sex education and contraception , fewer girls would have their lives interrupted through pregnancy .
many are low - or middle-income workers who otherwise would have been unemployed . this suggests stronger economic – and thus employment – that would reduce the number of workers engaged in independent work . but whatever macroeconomic conditions , independent work is likely to account for a growing share of work in the long run , owing to technological advances and individual preferences . while digital platforms for independent work remain early in their development , and employ only 15 % of independent workers , they are proliferating and expanding fast . mckinsey estimates that 30-45 % of the working-age population would have preferred to earn incomes , whether primary or secondary , from independent work .
the demand for abolition of censorship was one of the polish first political slogans of march 68 . demands for freedom of assembly and the right to organize the following . crucially , the protesters did not claim free elections . in this they were realists , but they demanded civic control measures over authorities both in the political and economic sphere . one slogan was “ no bread , without freedom . ”
new haven – in what could well be a final act of desperation , central banks are abdicating effective control over the economies they have been tasked with managing . first came zero interest rates , then quantitative easing ( qe ) , and now negative interest rates – one futile attempt begotten another . just as the first two gambits failed to gain meaningful economic traction in chronically weak recoveries , a shift to negative rates will only compound risks in financial instability and set the stage for the next crisis . adopting negative interest rates – initially launched in europe in 2014 and now embraced in japan – represents a major turning point for central banking . previously , emphasis was placed to boost aggregate demand – primarily by lowering borrowing costs , but also by spurring wealth effects from appreciating financial assets .
as a result , demand now falls short of any binding constraint . indeed , the permits price fell below three-ton in april 2013 , rendering the emissions-trading market almost irrelevant . this , to be sure , has encouraged greater reliance on highly polluting coal – the most extreme energy source , from the standpoint of global warming . that would not have happened if the price mechanism still underpin climate-change policies . moreover , the eu ’s renewables policy , too , has proved to be ruinously expensive .
the task facing the imf will , of course , be formidable . of course , it will be important for the fund to focus on global imbalances , not bilateral imbalances . in a multilateral trading system , large us bilateral trade deficits often balance the bilateral surpluses with other countries . while china might like oil from the middle east , those in the middle east – with so much wealth concentrated in so few hands – might be more interested than gucci handbags in china ’s mass-produced goods . so china can have its trade deficit with the middle east , and america ’s trade surplus , these bilateral balances indicate nothing about china ’s overall contribution to global imbalances .
asked of their feelings on the previous day , a majority of americans ( 55 % ) in 2018 said in 2018 that they had experienced stress during a lot of day , almost half ( 45 % ) said that they felt much worried , and over five ( 22 % ) said they felt anger by the lot . ” stress , worry , and anger all hit ten-year american highs in 2018 . the us accounted for the seventh-most stressed population in the world in 2018 , less stressed than greece , the philippines , the us , and iran , but more stressed than uganda , turkey , and venezuela ’s . these stress measures are consistent with another notable finding : americans ’ self-reported happiness has also declined in 2018 . asked by gallup how they would have rate their lives on a scale from zero ( worst life ) for ten ( the best life ) , americans in 2018 responded with a 6.9 average , down from 7.0 in 2017 to 7.3 during 2006-2008 .
a written code – emphasizing the commercial benefits of ethical business conduct , and the negative consequences of falling short – is part of this effort , and can help preserve and reinforce the culture ; but a code alone is not enough . constant reminders and repetition are fundamental . employees need to understand instinctively what can be done and what should never be done . they need to internalize a culture that values strict adherence to the lofty ethical standards of conduct . to this end , banks should make their values and culture an integral to hiring , firing , and promotion decisions .
islamabad – one hundred years ago this month , women in the united kingdom gained the right to vote , and most more women in the modern world are enfranchised today . but in much of the developing world , the opposition that british suffragettes faced a century ago , rooted in misogyny , persists . this is certainly true in pakistan , where the general election , set by july 25 , provides an ideal opportunity to advocate change . at first glance , pakistan seems progressive at best . the legislation has authorized women to vote on a vote since 1956 , nearly a decade after independence from britain .
some were to say the outcome , when the initial crisis was unexpected : some lending rates actually rose . it was intended to become apparent that most central banks ’ pre-crisis models – both formal models and mental models that guide policymakers ’ thinking – were badly mistaken . neither predicted the crisis ; and in very few of these economies had some semblance of full employment . the ecb famously raised interest rates twice in 2011 , just when the euro crisis was worsening and unemployment was rising at double-digit lows , bringing deflation ever closer . they continued to take advantage of old discredited models , perhaps slightly modified .
but mao ’s death did , at least , end the caesarism era in china . because he did not have his son to succeed him , mao appointed a five-person politburo politburo member to do the job . his members , comprising his nephew , mao yuanxin , his mistress , zhang yufeng , and jiang qing , his final wife – was just as incompetent at governing , but , following the catastrophe of the cultural revolution , antagonism toward them in military and other state institutions was excessive for them last may . they , and the gang of four ( of which jiang qing was a member ) , were soon ousted . china ’s transit from caesarism to despotism , followed by marxism to capitalism , was fortunate to china ’s citizens .
in ukraine , we learned this truth from harsh experience within the communist era . although communism could , each now , coexist with private property , and sometimes with private enterprise , this never could coexist with civil society . the most fateful attack that accompanied installing any dictatorship is an assault on civil societies . in ukraine , freedom of speech was , on communism ’s fall , restored overnight . but reviving civil society – the many mutually complementary ways in which citizens attend public life – presents an even more complicated challenge , because egypt and tunisia will find themselves out soon .
then there is imagine the american intelligence agencies confirmation that the act of aggression has indeed been underway , notwithstanding putin ’s denials . finally , just imagine how trump might respond . would putin be calling on ? and would putin make another “ incredible offer ” to help us investigators get to the bottom of things ? even more to the point : would trump quickly invoke the principle of collective defense under article 5 of the nato treaty ?
but these external risks make the outlook for global growth necessarily grim . a baseline scenario for the us is still strong growth , and there is no reason for the us , too . europe ’s growth might well come above trend , as it continues its long , slow recovery from the debt crisis in the decade ’s start . and china ’s economies have been proving doubters wrong for many years . so 2019 could be turning out to be yet another year of solid global growth .
argued by eugene scalia , america ’s son of court justice antonin scalia , in a case against the sec , was won in america ’s appeals court , dc circuit , to technicality – the sec ’s failures to conduct cost-benefit analysis ahead of time . this small victory turned to a major defeat for shareholders when the sec , rather than performing such analyses and again proposing the rule , opted for stall . at a conference last december , i was asking sec president mary chapter iro when her agency was planning to reintroduce rule . i even offered to do the cost-benefit analysis for free . but she confessed that the sec had many other items on its agenda , placing the issue on the back burner – a polite way to say that the sec , like heroic student at tiananmen square , surrendered under irresistible pressure .
but these are not normal times , but they are not normal times , either . indeed , the fed ’s monetary policy has not been sufficiently sufficient to stave off a recession of the american , though one that remains so mild that many doubt whether it qualifies as the real animal as a whole . the response from the united states to the united states , the european central bank has been analogous to the fed ’s , but less forceful , with monetary policy easier than headline headline headline inflation suggest is appropriate . and , in western europe , gdp is declining today . in short , major central banks on both sides of the atlantic reacted to a financial crisis , but have not been over-over-reacted .
when the opposition attempted to challenge these inconsistencies , the eck suddenly denounced kibaki as the victor . days later , eck head publicly acknowledged that kibaki supporters had pressured him to announce “ results ” at once , despite a clear indication of voting rigging . shockingly , he declared that he did not know who was truly winning . likewise , eu observers announced that it had failed to meet basic international standards . the election was a disaster for kenya , but a response by the american national national community , led by the us , is no less distressing .
moreover , a host of risk-risk premiums makes such indicators more difficult to interpret . unsurprisingly , therefore , surveys of households and firms ’ inflation expectations forecast actual inflation more accurately . given that market-based measures currently conflict with more keynesian economic data , little weight should be attached . it is also true that current global trade tensions hit eurozone manufacturers hard , especially in germany . but it is hard for monetary policymakers to respond to the introduction of trade barriers .
but pharmaceutical companies continue to hold assumptions about pre-competitive collaboration boundaries . at first sight , it seems counter-intuitive to companies that would want to share data , potentially giving away competitive advantage . but this presupposes that owning such data does indeed imply a competitive advantage , with the emergence of a closed operating model financially sustainable . drugs that make it to fund the cost of failure . as a recent morgan stanley news report pointed out , the pharmaceutical industry ’s current success rates are inadequate to maintain large internal r & d organizations , which makes the entire sector a financially nonviable operating model .
although the iranian government might most likely be deterred from using its nuclear-weapons race , a price in a nuclear iran could well find itself an arms race – a nuclear saudi arabia , possibly followed by turkey and egypt . nuclear weapons , components , and materials in a region that is already volatile and violent and determines the world ’s oil prices represents an appalling scenario . the market has already taken a measure of past week ’s tensions , driving up prices for some of their oil treaties to their highest levels in eight months . attempting to force iran to back down with its steadily mounting sanctions has produced no output . despite tightening its economic noose – the american sanctions against all companies who do business with iran ’s central bank , and the european union plans to impose sanctions on iranian oil exports by late january – many of them nuclear experts are now predicting that iran is very close to enriching sufficiently high uranium to build a bomb .
this levy , strongly backed by those countries whose financial sectors are in tatters after the crisis , is hard to swallow for the eu ’s states that did not intervene to bail out their banks . the levy is a easy way to expand the political and financial costs of the crisis from some to all eu members . if applied , bank capital will be scarcer , the flow of credits more slowly and bank fees higher in countries with a pretty stable financial sector simply because others spent a fortune to support their financial systems – and because the european commission never misses an opportunity to unify rules across the eu . for example , the post-crisis harmonization fervor in this area means that it will now become more expensive everywhere in the eu to insure against currency volatility or unexpected changes in interest rates .
at & t , at & t , offers scholarships through partner nonprofit institutions and provide paid internships to as many as 100 graduates . learnup , a san francisco startup that has attracted funding from some of silicon valley ’s largest venture capital firms , sets partnerships with employers to offer online training modules that connect job seekers to specific job seekers , first and foremost entry-level positions that do not require college degrees . employers foot the bill , with the expectation that learnup will help them recruit higher-quality applicants . and , indeed , once candidates have completed the training , learnup helps them secure interviews with prospective employers that already include several large corporations . the california community college system is already working with learnup to give students access to the skills that are required to fill available local job opportunities .
por– to the military coup overthrowing egypt ’s first democratically elected president , and to lead to the arrests of muslim brotherhood leaders across the country , this implies enormous dangers not just for egypt ’s democratic transition , but for democratic hopes across the arab world as well . the fact that the coup came with massive popular support is to signal the enormous difficulties that the muslim brotherhood is faced during its first turn in power . president mohamed morsi ’s government struggled to address egypt ’s inherited economic , social crises in the face of enormous public expectations created by the 2011 revolution , whose protagonists sought not only freedom , but also the economic development and social justice of the region . to be sure , the muslim brotherhood was also victims of its own mistakes , particularly those of morsi and his government to reach out to the secular opposition , elements of which contributed to his election . morsi ’s government seemed incapable of understanding that a slim electoral majority is not enough , particularly today .
paris – earlier this month , pascal simbitilla ’s trial accused of complicity in rwanda ’s genocide , in which 800,000 people were killed between april and july 1994 began in paris . sadly , mass killings in africa continue . south sudan , africa ’s newest state , has been massacres of civilians , particularly around libor city . and french military interventions in the central african republic have not put an end to severe inter-communal violence there . but , paradoxically , even as such episodes continue to occur in africa , perhaps on a larger scale than elsewhere in the world , the continent has , of course , become a beacon of hope , a beacon of hope .
moreover , with growing concern about the sustainability of american fiscal policy , the us has an enormous opportunity to play a significantly larger role in a reserve currency . one shudders to think what will happen , unless europe withdraws from its current funk . certainly , europeans would lose traction as a badly needed counterweight to america ’s global economic policies . europeans might not mind that right now ( one sees more obama t-shirts in europe than in the us ) , but perhaps they will not be so happy whether george bush iii arrives along . fortunately , europeans probably will not wait so long to start moving ahead again .
that implies a poor focus on growth until the deflation gap narrowed considerably – that is , until now . the third arrow , in particular , is not a traditional , industrial-policy approach . on the contrary , it stresses labor-market reform and deregulation and corporate-tax reductions . a crucial component of abe ’s growth strategy is expanding the workforce – a major challenge , given the aging of japanese society . one logical solution would be to integrate more foreign labor into the japanese economy .
what is certain is that the vacuum left by sharon ’s departure from politics is all the more striking , given images of chaos emerging from gaza that israel vacated , and the collapse of the palestinian authority prior to our eyes in the past . nor will the emerging of yet another providential figure come easy , at best . not all extraordinary periods create bonapartes , and this will probably be a good thing , because exceptional leaders may give the illusion that all the problems have solutions that far lie ahead . the natural course of history in the most optimistic sense is “ progress in france , ” but the rapid pace of technological change pushes us toward the expectation of an equally rapid advance in human affairs . many of us believe that such an avoidable wager can be fulfilled only by providential men , with all the hope – and dangers – that this entails .
so , while cameron ’s government ’s support for deeper eurozone integration is welcome , a eurozone can not and will not be shaped from outside , and , according to , british interests . the uk is not on the verge of blocking other eu member countries from deeper integration , given its willingness to move forward by a majority of other member states . indeed , last year ’s negotiations on the “ fiscal compact ” should already demonstrate to cameron the difficulty of exercising the so-called “ national veto . ” still , the uk has played a leading role in framing key eu policies , including single-market measures , overseas development aid , and trade and climate change . the uk leadership in these areas has appreciated strongly – and sorely missed – should the british decide to leave .
but they will fault the us not for comprehending the larger war . already , it is clear that the obama administration knew what it was bargaining for when , without thinking about what to come next , it invited assad ’s removal in 2011 . in july of that year , robert s. ford , the american ambassador to syria , was sent to the sunni town of hama , where assad ’s father had ordered the massacre 30 years earlier . according to the us state department at that time , the visit was intended to “ [ express ] our deep support for the syrian people ’s right to assemble peacefully and express itself . ” did an administration really not foresee that assad – like his father before him – would react to the popular uprising of syria with violence ?
beijing – after years of intervening to manage the renminbi ’s exchange rate in the wake of its exchange-rate appreciation , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) is under increasing pressure to float the currency . but striking the right balance between loosening its grip on the exchange rate and maintaining monetary stability will not be easy . all economics students are learning mundell-fleming model , in order to maintain a fixed exchange rate , free capital movements , and independent monetary policy simultaneously . if a country with a fixed exchange rate and open capital account tightens monetary policy to contain inflation , a rise in domestic interest rates will provide market participants with the incentive to borrow foreign currencies and convert them into domestic asset investment . the resulting capital inflows , if persistent , would generate upward pressure on the currency , compelling the central bank , in bid to maintain exchange-rate stability , intervening by selling its domestic currency , especially us dollars until interest rates and money supply have returned to their former levels .
cambridge : a 15 % tax credit for profits that companies distribute to workers over two years would have a more targeted proposal : a $ 15 % tax credit to pay for their profits . by providing temporary tax relief , such a scheme would help companies compensate for the administrative cost of fixing the profit-sharing program . to rein in costs and prevent abuse , profits totaling more than 10 % at the top of the employee ’s wage would be discounted ; the general amount offered to individual firms would be capped ; and safeguards against substitution of earnings for wage sharing , raise them , and other benefits would be established . the credit tax could also foster changes in the corporate culture , by spurring boan/level discussions not just of profit sharing but also of information-sharing and decision-making authority with employees . stagnant incomes of most american workers underscore economic growth on the demand side ( by discouraging household consumption ) and supply side ( through adverse effects of educational opportunity , human-capital development , and innovation ) .
most russians see no connection between prosecuting key figures and giving the authorities credibility . on the contrary , people seem to identify with putin ’s message to the establishment that finally tackling corruption . but this is the message to russia ’s shaken elites . and the message is straightforward : no one is safe from prosecution , though – like abyzov and ishayev – it has retired from public services and no longer has influence . moreover , selective repression has become harsher .
it has also been promoting the commission ’s successor , a high-level panel of expert groups on measuring the economic performance of economic performance and social progress . last week , at the oecd ’s sixteenth-century world forum on statistics , knowledge , and policy in incheon , south korea , the group issued its report on gdp , beyond what counts for economic and social performance . a new report highlights several topics , such as trust and insecurity , which have been addressed only briefly by mismeasuring our lives and explores several others , such as inequality and sustainability . and it explains how inadequate metrics have led to deficient policies in many areas . better indicators would have exposed the highly negative and possibly long-lasting effects of the deep post-2008 post-2008 downturn on productivity and wellbeing , in which case policymakers might not have been so enamored of austerity that reduced fiscal deficits but then cut national wealth , properly measured , even larger .
seventy-three years earlier , john maynard keynes thought of the reform and regulation of financial markets from a first-three perspective , and found himself “ moved toward … mak [ ing ] buying up investment permanently and insoluble , like marriage . ” ” but he drew back right right immediately : the fact that every individual investor flatters himself that his commitment is ‘ liquid ’ ” ( though this can not possibly be true for all investors collectively ) calms his nerves , making him much more willing to run risk … . ” moreover , for keynes , “ [ t ] he game of professional investment is intolerably boring and over-exacting to anyone who is completely exempt from a gambling instinct ; whilst he he must pay to this propensity of the appropriate toll … . ” for these reasons , it is for us to look frozen for the past generation , or two whenever we contemplated reforming our financial regulation system . and it is why , even in the face of a severe financial crisis , we remain frozen today .
perhaps the most outrageous example is america ’s $ 0.54 per gallon of us ethanol imports , while not a tariff on oil is on the us , with just $ 0.5 per gallon tax in gasoline . this contrasts with the $ 0.51 per gallon subsidy that america ’s firms ( the vast portion of which go to a single firm ) receive on ethanol . thus , there is no way foreign producers can compete unless their costs amount to $ 1.05 per gallon lower than those of american manufacturers . enormous subsidies meant that the u.s. had become the world ’s largest producer of ethanol , a us producer with the same support from the us . yet , despite this tremendous advantage , some foreign firms still can make this happen .
the results have not only produced a conflict between the american federal legislation and state legislation , but also signal a shift in attitudes not to the kind of resentment that has been linked to same-sex marriage . just as important was president barack obama ’s reaction to the colorado and washington votes – both states that he won readily in his reelection bid . the legal and political challenges implied are no minor matter : marijuana remains the illicit substance under the american federal law and the international conventions that america has adopted . on other issues – particularly immigration – obama rejects claims of states ’ entitlement , insisting on federal authority . moreover , the topic remains highly sensitive : whereas public-opinion polls in 2012 indicate that a small majority in favor of legalization , its opponents remain vehement for the first time ever .
the result has been catastrophic , as ethnic rivalries sharpened . whatever else , it is said of such french-backed authoritarian regimes , hindsight leaves no doubt about the benefits of the social stability viewed in ivory coast in the period until the 1980 ’s , when france remained “ machiavellialistically ” engaged with its ex-colony . the political upheavals of 1999-2000 resulted in a new “ democratic ” constitution that became an invitation to civil war . regional and religious tensions since houphouet ’s death , aggravated by the new constitution , which enshrined ethnic discrimination . about four million northerners have been denied political participation or land ownership on the grounds that they were descendants of migrants from neighboring countries .
these are highly educated people who know that knowledge is power have an obvious agenda and are benefiting from the fact that education in the european union is the responsibility of national governments , not brussels-based institutions . these governments are keen to establish an education system according to which the state is alone deciding which fields of research are both necessary and socially important . in the long run , they are probably also willing to grant the state to political loyalists the right to produce and transfer knowledge . in other words , access to knowledge will cease to be a civil right . political trustworthiness will determine who can teach and study what about a country and its past .
dubai – globalization , as many recent global leaders note , is in retreat . despite all its undeniable advantages , it has spawned governance and governance problems that exposed the ininadequacy of national governments and international institutions . that left people everywhere , wealthy and poor alike , struggling to cope with problems – from failed states to failed banks , from over-fishing to under-employment , from climate change to economic stagnation – to which globalization has been conducive but unable to address effectively . fragile institutions have given rise to the political backlash and the risk of disaster on many fronts . mark leonard , director of the european council on foreign relations , and vice chair of the world economic forum ’s new global agenda council on geo-economics , noted that interdependence , formerly an economic boon , is now becoming like a threat .
london – for two decades , chinese diplomacy has guided the concept of a country ’s “ peaceful rise . ” yet , today , china needs a new strategic doctrine because the most remarkable aspect of sri lanka ’s recent triumph over the tamil tigers is not its overwhelming nature ; rather , it is the fact that china has provided president mahinda rajapaska with both military supplies and diplomatic cover needed the war prosecute . without that chinese backing , rajapaska ’s government would have neither the wherewithal nor the will to ignore world opinion in its offensive against the tigers . so , not only has china become central to every aspect of the world economic and financial system , it has now demonstrated its strategic efficacy in a region traditionally outside its orbit . on sri lanka ’s beachfront battlefields , china ’s “ peaceful rise ” has come to an end .
should the euro break up and the gipsic countries default , germany alone would lose some € 545 billion , nearly half of the aggregate sum mentioned because the bundesbank ran most of the net payments on behalf of the gipsic countries that are reflected in targetorial balances . germany has the greatest exposure by far among surplus countries rescuing the eurozone ’s crisis-stricken countries , and thereby helps to soften austerity more than any other country . george soros underestimates the risks that mutualize debt for the eurozone ’s future . when alexander hamilton , the first us treasury minister , mutualized government debts in 1791 , he believed that doing so would cement the new american nation . but mutualizing greek debt gave rise to huge moral hazard effects , inducing states to borrow excessively .
hong kong – looking back at the 2016 summer of events , much may not seem much to celebrate . with respect to global health alone , one unrelenting tragedy emerged annually . beyond stories of hospitals in conflict-zones being being bombed , the zika virus emerged as an increasing threat . there was also the proliferation of antibiotic-resistant microbes or “ superbugs , ” a continuing revival of yellow fever and the reemergence of polio in nigeria previously proclaimed polio-free . hopes for a respiratory syncytial virus vaccine have been dashed .
when it comes to securing equity in banking , these precedents , and the existing institutions point the way forward . history also shows us that financial exclusion is a persistent problem whenever universal services demands are absent . during a new agreement era , regulators featured the functional equivalent of such a requirement in charters to banks and thrifts alike . but these mandates were removed during the wave of deregulation of the 1980s , when banks rapidly started moving away from low-cost financial services , toward higher-profit activities . this dynamic can be seen as a trend toward bank consolidation and branch closings , which has accelerated since the 2008 financial crisis and reduced access to services in low-income communities .
after all , israeli governments not only allowed unapproved outposts to exist , but also delivered to them water , electricity , the internet , and military defenses . this has not been lost on all us leaders in the us . in april 2014 , then-us secretary of state john kerry said that the us congress had told america that direct talks between israel and palestine would have gone “ poof ” when israel announced 700 new homes for israelis at the west bank . by december 2016 , obama allowed the un security council to vote on this trump-derided resolution declaring israel ’s settlement buildup a “ major obstacle ” to a two-state solution . it is not hard to imagine what palestinian negotiators need to feel as drove by the massive israeli settlements on land that they worked to include in an independent state .
new haven : across europe and america , men in black tie and women in kenzo and armani goes are once more summer pilgrims to places like bayreletth , glyndebourne , and glimmerglass . once again , the state coffers are tapped to support these privileged re-treats . may , then , is the time to ask once again a fundamental question : should the state continue ladle out generous subsidies for such elite activities ? consider the incontrovertible beauty and spiritual depth of the spiritual depth : roman catholic high . does its grandeur mean the state should subsidize it ?
hence a key characteristic of foreign policy integration has been that governments can not really know in advance of what is being left to the eu . on the case of defense and warfare , unpredictability includes the option that young men will die in action . not surprisingly , foreign policy integration did not make much more progress . this contrast underlines the fact that the eu ’s great achievements have made integration within the no-man ’s – land that lies between full national independence and the total loss of sovereignty within a federation . but foreign policy as we have come to know it , essentially is the manifestation of a nation state or a superpower .
we face a $ 100 million shortfall for the new school year , which is not yet on record . without additional support from the international community , our vision will not be realized – despite strong political will and rigorous planning . lebanon has often struggles to attract funding because of its status as a middle-income country ; but that label is misleading , because it fails to account for the serious structural weaknesses that pre-date the syrian crisis or the vast share of resident populations comprised of refugees from syria , palestine , and iraq living in abject poverty . one thing i hope will become clear at the oslo education summit has the need to help middle-income countries affected by fragility and conflict . i am grateful to the us donors from the start , but now we need the additional international support that we face .
what will this tell us about human nature , and our ability to live either prudently or ethically ? part of the problem , of course , is that we make resolutions to do just things we are not likely to do otherwise . only an anorexic would resolve to consume ice cream at least once per week and only workaholic would resolve to spend more time in front of television . so we use the occasion for the new year to seek change of behaviors which may prove the most difficult to change . this makes failure a distinct possibility .
a second conclusion to be drawn from the current situation is the fed has now overestimated the strength of america ’s economy for the next 11 consecutive years . elementary mathematics dictates that credible forecasts should at least overestimate half the time and undershoot half that time . had each year of fed forecasting been coin toss , we are now likely to have 11 heads in a row and zero tails . the odds of happening are one in 2,048 . clearly , the fed needs a deep look at its forecasting methodology and policymaking processes .
any study seeking to determine whether psychiatric disorder is over-diagnosed will find some patients with the condition that they did not have it again on interviews . such is the nature of psychiatric diagnosis 's imperfect reliability . the question , then , is not whether some patients previously gave a diagnosis seem to have it not to have it on re-interview , but rather to how numerous . how high a percentage should before claiming over-diagnosis is significant problem and value judgment . but we think , in the us , that an over-diagnosis rate above 50 % crosses the clinical significance threshold .
in many previous banking crises , it was poland or the region that was hit hard ( argentina , japan , etc. ) . this time , virtually every economy suffers massively and a banking crisis is globalized . policymakers will continue to throw whatever ammunition they can find at the time of the problem , but it will take time for deleveraging from the boom to running its course . at times of severe economic hardship , policymakers thrash in search of solutions , and some people lose faith in the economic system itself . true , in the great depression of the 1930 ’s were commonplace for western intellectuals to turn to communism and central planning as the hoped-for panacea .
washington , dc – steve bannon ’s widely traveling europe this year drew little attention as it was supposed to be , given that he is a key theoretician of us president donald trump ’s signature brand of nationalism . bannon now seems intent on creating a federation of nationalist parties in europe . and yet one wonders how an “ america first ” ideologue may pursue his project of political power anywhere other than america . by joining forces with the french front leader marine le pen – herself the open-supporter of russian president vladimir putin – bannon seems to have in mind a new form of “ neo-nationalist international . ” with more countries transforming themselves into “ nationalist autocracies ” and “ illiberal democracies ” under strongman rule , nationalism has become an ideological common denominator to this day .
one famous eighteenth-century incident was lord macartney ’s british mission to the imperial court of china . macartney refused to conform to chinese imperial protocol by decreasing to kowtow to emperor on , for the lack of duty to do the same for his own sovereign . this , too , was the case of “ keeping face ” : the chinese expected tribute ; british lord insisted on the status of his king . as a result , the mission broke down . diplomatic immunity from local prosecution was an idea that sprang directly from another incident almost a century ago , involving the arrest of a russian aristocrat , andrey matveyev , who represented peter great in london .
if not , the bond price loss would more than wipe out the extra interest that it has earned , even if rates remain unchanged for five years . here , the arithmetic does work for an investor who rolls through ten-year treasury bills for the next five years , thereby earning 2 % more every year than it would through investments in treasury bills or bank deposits . assume that the interest rate on ten-year bonds remains unchanged for the next five years , and then rises from 2 % in 2000 to 5 % . during those five years , the investor earns an additional 2 % per year in cumulative gain of 10 % . but when interest rates on ten-year bond prices are rising to 5 % , the bond price falls from around 100 % to $ 69 .
only the world ’s political and economic heavyweights , the major industrialized countries that remain by far the largest hydrocarbon consumers , can initiate an entirely global change . change must begin in the transport sector , which accounts for over half of current oil consumption – a share that is likely to continue to rise to the future . g-8 countries should therefore agree that they no longer license any new , oil-powered cars from 2025 onwards . this decision would not be directed against individual mobility , but against dissipating a scarce resource , which is all the more urgently needed to produce synthetic material . political leaders ought to privilege no particular technology at all .
ithaca – us president-elect donald trump has once again managed to turn facts on his head . as part of a broader effort to take china to challenge allegedly “ raping ” the united states economy through unfair trade policy , trump has now renewed his accusation that the country manipulates its currency to gain the advantage of its exports . such statements are as dangerous as unmoored from reality . make no mistake : trump ’s accusation of chinese currency manipulation does not actually promote the facts . on the contrary , over the last two and a half years , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has engaged in currency markets for the opposite purpose : preventing the renminbi ’s value from falling too sharply against the dollar .
new delhi – late last month , when two indian states and the national capital were held to ransom through rioting mobs protesting their spiritual leader ’s convictions on two counts of raping minor girls , many indians found themselves facing a number of painful truths about their countries . the leader who spurred those protests is gurmeet singh , one of the more prominent among the “ godmen , ” or self-proclaimed spiritual leaders flourish throughout india . flamboyant , jewelry-bedecked singh calls himself “ baba gurram meet ” rahim singh insan – an hindu compound , muslims , and sikh namesake , followed by the word for “ the human ” in hindi , punjabi , and urdu . and he has a reputation to be able to use his female followers ’ sexual preferences . in 2002 , two of those followers mustered the courage to press charges .
by contrast , some american policymakers continue to believe that iran would abandon its enrichment program unless only the european union imposed unilateral sanctions . yet a clear-headed analysis by iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s behavior indicates that eu sanctions would result in more trade diversion , with china , russia , turkey , dubai benefiting from reduced us levels of european exports to iran . to be sure , certain imports would become more expensive to iran , but the economic effects of such sanctions remain limited . politically , ahmadinejad would certainly not miss out on his chance to exploit unilateral action for the propaganda purposes of his own – claiming that iran has an inherent conflict not with the international community , but with imperialist states intent to deprive his country of technological progress . europeans favor the new security council resolution , for example , though its measures become weaker than what the united states or eu can unilaterally impose .
nobody could be more identified with the political elite than abe , the grandson of wartime cabinet minister and , later , the son of a foreign minister . and yet he shares right-wing populists ’ hostility toward liberal academics , journalists , and intellectuals . postwar japanese democracy was influenced in the 1950 ’s and 1960s by an intellectual elite that consciously sought to distance japan from its wartime nationalism . abe and his allies seek to quash that influence . his effort to revise japan ’s pacifist constitution , restore pride in its wartime record , and discredit “ elitist ” mainstream media , such as the left-of-center newspaper asahi shimbun , won him the praise of donald trump ’s former strategist , stephen bannon , who called abe a “ trump before trump ” .
ensuring high-quality output and local consumer loyalty requires keeping the workforces happy and sustaining a positive public picture . african countries , by contrast , often see the worst sides of multinational companies : energy , mineral , and precious metal companies go where resources are , not where it feels pleasant to work . as one former mining manager in the region told me , “ the aim has always been simple : obtain assets out of the ground and outside the country as cheaply or with as little fuss as possible . ” because the customer is abroad , with little processing to do so , why should companies upgrade local skills or otherwise help host economies ? but sub-saharan africa ’s potential relationship with global corporations requires not that we be so limited .
london – the first big city to boom came into london , beginning around 1996 . the boom mentality spread to los angeles , new york , and sydney around 1997 , to paris in 1998 , miami , moscow and shanghai in 2001 , as well as vancouver around 2002 . these and other cities were booming quite quite ever since ; prices in much of the country are up to at least 50 % in real terms since 2000 . that has been a big windfall for homeowners but hurt anyone planning to buy . now , the growth in home prices is weakening in some of these cities .
the government employs a host of new legal regulation , the shadowy internet police force , and a powerful hardware-based national information filtering system . control also relies on the demography of internet users , most of which belong to china ’s economic elite and more likely to adopt the internet as part of newfound consumer lifestyles than as instruments of political or social revolution . what is surprising is that there have been largely effective governance mechanisms for the government to control its control . but it is also spurring profound societal shifts , rooted in a rising right consciousness within society , something that has intensified – and amplified – not just by the growth of the economy , but by the rapid spread of internet . after two and a half decades of market-oriented economic reform , chinese citizens increasingly recognize how to protect their economic and social interests by employing the language of rights .
this european polity lacks the second crucial element of madison ’s scheme : diversified political representation at the federal level . individual nation-states , regions , and special-interest groups are represented within the eu . yet , while common european causes arise daily , they have no europe-wide political representation . none of the single political party , or politician in brussels , can claim to represent the linked interests of europe ’s citizens , because none had to compete for europe-wide public support . as a result , nationally elected representatives have a responsibility to make crucial eu-level decision-making crucial .
is there anything more to be done , really , that one can ask for a president ? and yet american presidential campaigns generally neglect the debate about advisers or their intellectual influences . though a president ’s advisers can change , one would think that candidates acknowledge them , if only to propose where his own ideas come from ; after all , realistically what they are being sold is his ability to judge and manage expertise , not his own ability as economists . that time , too , no mention was heard by any deep economic thinker ’s title or of any particular economic model . obama was originally left to wonder team of economic advisers , including lawrence summers , christina romer , austan goolsbee , and cass sunstein .
for another , they will have to make their own distinct contribution . they can not simply wait for america to move , or can they always seek to placate washington ’s preferences . in short , they will have to make their own efforts to sustain collective efforts . what this distinct contribution could be is not difficult to define . after all , only a ingrained habit of playing second fiddle to the us prevents eu members from clearly and loudly distancing themselves from israel ’s repressive inter-ferences on the west bank and gaza , even as such a stance would help to strengthen arab states ’ commitment to a us-led coalition against terrorism , just as it provides useful shove in american diplomacy .
one reason for this is that small numbers of patients make the case for disease trials and testing drugs that are difficult . as a result , medical professionals often know too little about the symptoms and biology of such illnesses . earlier this year , i participated in the rare illness program in california , and that of many patients involved . the topic was obscure but large ( more than 70 ) collection of diseases due to specific kinds of genetic error -- one that takes place in cells ' machinery that chemically attaches sugars to proteins and lipids . little is known for what produces mutations that give rise to the prevalence of these congenital disorders ; and therapy exists only for a few .
markets become rigged , justice becomes transactional , and politicians sell themselves to the highest bidder . over time , this “ culture of corruption , ” permeates society . in ukraine , even universities are compromised : degrees are regularly bought and sold . even though corruption is a symptom rather than a cause of ukraine ’s troubles , a culture of corruption must uprooted before conditions can improve themselves . one might assume that this , quite simply , requires a strong state , with the means to root out corrupt politicians and businessmen .
nor should anyone expect a moratorium on settlements to expand ; on the contrary , it is the right way to do so . settlements , on the other hand , offer cheaper housing than is available in israel , thereby resolving one of the country ’s major economic problems in the middle class . “ red lines ” in israel have some way to mutating along lines drawn in sand , which are then rendered invisible at the slightest wind . the new us government ’s fragile equilibrium only reinforces this sober interpretation . in israel , obama joins a country that has , indeed , moved , but not toward the missing middle .
as a result , japan ’s postwar history has fallen below 50 % for ratio of fiscal receipts to total expenditures this fiscal year . if the government continues on this path , many anticipate next year ’s budget deficit to widen further . despite japan ’s fiscal weakness , the market for japanese government bond ( jgbs ) remains stable , at least for now . japan had a similar experience of the 1990 ’s , the country ’s so-called “ lost decade . ” at that time , japan ’s budget deficits skyrocketed after the country ’s asset bubble burst , generating economic stagnation .
mugabe 's regime has committed outrage after outrage . its catalogue of the crimes included : stealing mugabe 's 2002 elections that allowed mugabe to hold on for power ; torturing and murdering supporters of the opposition movements on democratic change ; transforming a fertile , prosperous country once considered africa breadbasket to a place where a half of the population barely survives on its handouts of foreign food ; and , as exemplified in its daily news attacks , silencing critical voices . yet zimbabwe 's neighbors , particularly those in southern african countries , have defended president mugabe from power . at late august , heads of state of 13 members of the southern african development community ( sadc ) , including mugabe and south africa 's president thabo mbeki , the leading regional power met in dar es salaam , tanzania , to reflect the challenges that before them . among the 54 paragraphs of the final communiqué , two handled zimbabwe .
a 2014 pew study found that , while only 25 % of respondents content the direction of national policymaking , 60 % were satisfied with governance in their own communities . and the american constitution permits individual states to function as what judge brandeis called laboratories of democracy by experimenting with innovative policies without putting the rest of the country at risk . there is a long and rich history of successful experiments , and it is not the case for a successful study . state and local governments have been leaders in establishing public primary and secondary education systems , as well as state colleges and universities . california , wyoming , and other states have allowed women to vote – exemplified in the nineteenth-century amendment ( enfranchising all adult women ) .
should higher nominal ( that is , inflation-driven ) growth replace debt-driven growth ? europe needs to aim for sustainable , non-inflationary , and competitive creation . the current 0.3 % inflation rate is a result of the significant decline in commodity prices and painful but unavoidable adjustment of costs and prices in the peripheral countries . greece currently has a slightly negative inflation rate in the eurozone . in other words , price stability reigns in the eurozone .
thus , record-high speculative prices probably have caused bunker traders to release inventories but these dismissal may be bought by speculators now , who are active lessees as commercial storage capacity . the implication is that speculators can drive up prices , and even increase their stockpiles , even as total commercial inventories remain very little to change in the process . additionally , oil market speculation may induced “ echo speculation , ” whereby ultimate users buy refined products , in advance , to protect against future price hikes . they then take the delivery on their premises so that overall refined inventories rise , but that the rise has not been part of reported commercial inventories . proving that speculation is responsible for higher prices is always difficult because it tends to appear against a background of robust fundamentals .
however , both arab states are failing the domestic revenues they need to sustain their institutions . if they wish to survive well into the next century , they are likely to need subsumed under a union promoted by a larger , more powerful , and more established nation-state . moreover , the disintegration that the region is already witnessing – and will undoubtedly continue to witness – will reverberate beyond the arab map with the creation of a sovereign kurdish state . such a state , whether exisiting de facto or widespread formal recognition , will have an ever-lasting effect on the arab world ’s borders ( syria and iraq ) and on the wider middle east ( turkey and iran ) . the arab spring has toppled some regimes , even if not the us .
we are typically inclined to think that new risk-management products , such as novel types of insurance or financial derivatives , will be primarily in the interest of the rich , or at least relatively wealthy people . in fact , new risk-management products are being developed for some of the poorest people in africa , asia , and latin america . it is important to recognize that the world ’s poorest people are not the same people between year and year . good fortune and bad fortune alternate randomly , and the poorest are particularly vulnerable when misfortune – like a hurricane in fishing village – strikes . so risk management by the smoothing bumps in revenue can prove extremely important to alleviating the consequences of poverty .
that disconnect is nothing new ; there have always been tsars and serfs , politburo commissars , and proletariat . that postcommunist boris yeltsin , however sometimes declared fidelity to a hazy collective sense of rossiyane ( citizens of russians ) deprived - or free , that is a matter of opinion - russians of all collective life ; in both ways , the real life of shared hardship , and the imaginary half life of communist solidarity . everyone deals with life and hardship individually ( the new word in our everyday vocabulary ) , regardless of any kremlin wish to make life uniform . indeed , even russian uniformity nowadays is different . in novgorod , i saw lukoil ( one of russia 's great private oil companies ) , gasoline stations were one of russia ’s major private oil firms .
greater international cooperation , it is argued , would maximize immigration ’s economic benefits . but , despite the potential benefits of working together to manage illegal immigration , most countries , including the us and the uk , are trying to reform their immigration laws unilaterally . they view collaboration as infeasible , given the eu ’s natural competitive competition between destination and source countries for the most productive workforce . a new system in which “ reversible bonds ” have replaced quotas and desirability screenings would diminish such competition , while mitigating the risks for destination and resource endowments . reversible bonds would act as an insurance mechanism for both sides , protect destination countries from fiscally motivated immigration , and protect source countries from the costs that have been linked to the loss of talented workers .
every downturn finally comes to an end , either . the mark of good policy is that it succeeds in pushing the downturn shallower and shorter than it otherwise would . the mark for the austerity policies that many governments embraced is that they made the downturn far deeper and longer than it was necessary , with long-lasting consequences . real ( inflation-adjusted ) gdp per capita is lower in most of the north atlantic in 2007 than it was in 2007 ; in greece , it shrank by an estimated 23 % . germany , a top-performing european country , has recorded miserly 0.7 % average annual growth over the last six years .
twenty-five years ago , poland ’s peoples were stunned by the choice of their “ compatriot , ” cardinal karol wojtyla of the “ pope . ” some were frightened , with some other wept with joy . herein lies the prominent writer , the writer was “ poland ’s second baptism . ” even in our euphoria , however , we were not expecting how much the new pope would make a difference not just poland , but the world . his first return to his native country soon thereafter showed itself to all the world a new pope ’s power .
though hong kong courts certainly could deal with the issue by themselves – under the “ one country , two systems ” framework , hong kong is assured an independent court system except for a right to elect its own legislature – an enraged china intervened . restraint is not , of course , a leninist virtue . in an extraordinary move , china ’s national people ’s congress party standing committee stepped in to “ make clear ” article 104 of the fundamental legislation , declaring that all oaths taken by clere-holders had to be “ solemn , accurate , complete , and sincere . ” yeau and leung were barred from taking their seats in the legislative council . to most hong kong lawyers , display of political authority did not simply represent a re-interpretation of the old rules ; rather , it shifted toward new ones .
prodded by groups like the workers ’ rights consortium and an ethical trading initiative , some corporations promise to pay living wages , open their factories to monitors , and even give workers voice to the workplace . in reebok , the multinational sportswear enterprise , advertises its corporate code as being “ based on core principles ” of the un ’s universal declaration of human rights . society markets its soccer balls and other goods with a “ guaranteed ” label : manufactured free child labor . but sensitivity to human rights has done nothing to staunch the decline of trade unionism worldwide . the international labor organization reports that the union is in retreat within the majority of nations .
already , the united states has taken the next logical step . the us securities and exchange board requires companies that use tantalum , tin , gold , or tungsten in their products to investigate these raw materials ’ origin , and to mitigate downside risks in their supply chains in line with oecd guidance if they are found to originate in specific conflict-affected or high-risk areas . the 12 members of africa ’s international conference on the great lakes region have committed to similar mandatory due-diligence requirements . that is how it should be . responsible sourcing is the duty rather than choice .
they will conclude that they can have both ways , keeping the benefits of economic integration without losing the ability to infringe on their citizens ’ rights , or using eu financial transfers to build patron-client relationships and reinforce their hold over the state . illiberal cee nationalists like hungarian prime minister victor orbán like to claim to be defending national sovereignty from bureaucrats in brussels . cameron ’s initiative is playing the right hand , allowing orbán and his allies in neighboring countries to declare anathema any move toward ever-closer union and the strengthening of both the federal authority and legitimacy . nonetheless , the truth is that cee countries do n’t have much to lose the sovereignty route . most of their productive and financial assets are owned by foreign companies , just as most rules governing their economies were determined by the eu .
systemic crises of food , fuel , and finance that came to head in the summer of 2008 – and that ongoing in many countries – are taking root in the economic paradigm , which has accounted not for the value of the nature and its array of life-supporting services to the us . just as the recently released report “ toward a green economy : pathways to sustainable development and eradication ” shows , market economies as they currently constituted have resulted in misallocation of capital onto an unprecedented scale . indeed , the deep and pervasive market failures – in carbon emissions , biodiversity , and ecosystem services – are accelerating environmental and environmental hazards , undermining human well-being and social equity . this makes the link to governance and institutions in rio +20 just as important as the transition to a green economy : markets are human constructs , which require rules and institutions to guide not only their direction , but also its boundaries . one concern among critics concerns is that a transition to a green economy will basically monetize nature , exposing the world bank forests , fresh water , and fisheries
third , in customary terms , israel has accused of anti-semitism of some who dared to criticize its disproportionate response to hamas ’s indefensible rocket strikes and its collective punishment for palestinians . an italian cardinal who was admittedly speaking intemperately accused of using the language of holocaust denial . by this standard , do my unqualified criticisms of hamas ’s rocket attacks make me an islamenslabe ? coincidentally , the deadly assault on gaza came simultaneously with a clutch of america ’s most distinguished would-be middle east peacemaker books published on how the task should be properly addressed . that all sounded a bit like a series of job applications – a war to president barack obama ’s ear .
an analogous political imperative lies at heart with sinhalese chauvinism , which made a sudden return to public life in sri lanka . religious and ethnic passions by the sinhalese were encouraged during the final , bloody pressure that ended sri lanka ’s quarter-century of civil war with the tamil tigers in 2009 . but , instead of seeking reconciliation with the tamils following their defeat , then-president mahinda rajapaksa went on to play for ethnic hatred , as he subverted sri lanka ’s democracy . rajapaksa ’s unexpected defeat by sri lanka ’s christian democrats and tamil political parties in last january ’s presidential election – an outcome that he then sought annul – was intended to end both his career and race-baiting politics . but a former president is now propping up a furious comeback bid , and may well win a presidential election scheduled for august 17 .
these are not isolated examples of children caught in the crossfire ; it is precisely what happens when classrooms turn themselves into the actual targets of terrorists who see education as a threat . ( indeed , boko haram is literally translated to this mean that “ fake ” or “ western ” education is “ forbidden . ” ) in at least 30 countries , there is a concerted pattern of attacks by armed groups , afghanistan , colombia , pakistan , somalia , sudan , and syria ’s worst affected . such attacks reveal stark clarity that providing schooling will matter not only to blackboards , books , and curricula . schools around the world , from north america to northern nigeria , now need security plans to make school pupils safer and give confidence on parents and their communities .
more scholarship opportunities for refugees , and increased funding for schools within and outside refugee settlements would also be welcome . modest seed funding may go a long way toward helping refugee-owned businesses move off the ground . meanwhile , several corporations and organizations – including wework , ikea , and starbucks – are developing innovative access to hiring refugees . global organizations are tapping into tech-savvy refugees ’ networks and hiring them for online work . some , such as tent funding , encourage companies to hire refugees , and integrate them into supply chains where they live .
that is why it is increasingly being dismissed in favor of an agro-ecological model built on the principle of “ food sovereignty . ” a un human-rights council approach calls on farmers to share their existing knowledge and seeds with one another , and protect local ecosystems . next month , un representatives from more than 190 countries will meet in sharm el sheikh , egypt , for the fourteenth meeting of the un conference of parties to the convention on biological diversity ( un biodiversity conference ) . whereas there they will be , they will consider whether to press the brakes on gene drives , to ensure that farmers and indigenous peoples are fully consulted before these technologies are unleashed in their communities . one hopes the international community will uphold its obligation to preserve supplies of food , just as it is rights for farmers around the world .
it is not exactly clear how long venezuelan hugo chávez had actually been dead before his passing was officially announced . buying time to secure his own political future , venezuelan officials have carefully stage-managed chávez ’s illness and eventual death , even suggesting near that he is , while going through complicated and agonizing cancer treatments , was that he was still “ walking and exercising ” ( and running ) . the information vacuum was reminiscent of the secrecy surrounding those of stalin and mao , and practice in the ottoman empire of keeping sultan ’s death a secret in just weeks until the succession was settled . the emotional manipulation of a mise-en-scene surrounding chávez ’s death appears certain to translate into electoral support for his gray successor , nicolás maduro . but will that suffice to produce a chávista lineage ?
governments in advanced countries also have roles to play in influencing the nature of technological innovation . too often , they subsidize labor-replacing , capital-intensive technologies rather than push innovation in the social more beneficial directions , to augment rather than replace fewer unskilled workers . such policies are unlikely to make much difference for developing countries . the main impediment , therefore , will remain that existing technologies enable insufficient room for factor substitution : employing less-skill labor rather than skilled professionals or physical capital . demanding the quality standards required to supply global value chains can not be easily met by substitutes for machines with manual labor .
berkeley – on january 20 , 2017 , america ’s us president-elect donald trump will take office by having won nearly three million fewer votes than his opponent ; and will work with a republican senate majority , whose members won 13 million fewer votes than their democratic opponents . only a republican majority in the house of representatives , headed by speaker paul ryan , has any claim to represent a numerical majority of 55 % of americans who voted on the 2016 election day . trump will also launch his presidency with approval ratings well below 50 % . that ’s unprecedented – or “ unpresidented , ” as one of his semi-literate tweets put it ( before deleting it ) – in the history of such a rating . the administration of the world ’s oldest democracy is actually not democratic ; in fact , it is n’t democratic .
the s-400 dispute is just the latest example of how military-procurement matters have spawned a rift between turkey and its western allies . in turkey ’s view , its western partners have not done enough , through technology transfers and joint-making schemes , to accommodate their burgeoning defense industry . chinese and , by contrast , to a lesser extent , russian firms have been more receptive to such turkish demands as part of the latter ’s military , rements . and domestic defense-industrial interests are only part of the story . more broadly , turkey and the west are undergoing a political , strategic , and geopolitical decoupling , reflected in most of every side ’s differing threats perceptions and alliances in the syria conflicts .
underdevelopment in many southern countries that are faring poorly in their struggles to remain viable in a globalizing world creates conditions of desperate poverty , ecological collapse , and rootless , unemployed populations beyond atrophying state systems . we do not create a better world in the 21 st century by forget what happened in the 19 th th - and much of the 20th th . this does not tell us that our responses to dangers emerging from history 's legacies must be rooted in the past . there is a greater need than ever before for innovative , forward-looking approaches to global governance . as we embark on an ever-new millennium , although seemingly ironically , the potential disorder in tomorrow may be due , to no small extent , to yesterday 's colonial order .
in bilateral negations with moscow , us officials have offered four concrete bmd cooperation projects : · bi-national and multi-national jointly manned centers , where russian personnel can see nato and nato missile-defense activities as a non-threatening force ; · joint russian expert studies on how bmd might affect russia ’s nuclear deterrent and what steps could be taken to minimize any problems ; · extended nato-russian theater-level bmd exercises that build on former cooperation – which disrupted russia ’s august 2008 war with georgia – and that rehearse how deployed nato and russian forces can jointly defend against missile threats ; and · an underlying legal framework to support these and other cooperative projects .
under such conditions , trump ’s biggest and boldest policy proposals will likely be running into budgetary constraints . he has already ruled for any changes in the social security system . his and congressional republicans ’ attempts to replace the affordable care act ( obamacare ) and curtail medicaid spending growth , have been unsuccessful . and a temporary increase in us defense spending is likely to revert to insufficient levels , following this fiscal year ’s end . though the tax package that trump signed into law last december ’s front-loaded tax cuts and is now helping the economy to increase , government revenues have yet to respond much to that growth .
the eu has always supported a two-state solution , despite challenging demographics , not to mention the need to preserve the identity of the jewish state . providing observer-state status to palestine would take off the table the prospect , as a “ one-state ” solution , that has lately gained momentum among experts . but these sound reasons for supporting palestine ’s bid will most likely not prevent the eu from delivering a split vote , reverberations of which will not only echo throughout the arab world , inviting accusations of hypocrisy , but will also hinder european efforts to reset relationships with middle east and north africa . a split vote thus undermines european interests , delivering a unequivocal blow toward european foreign policies in a challenging geopolitical environment . indeed , europe ’s divided stance over the israeli-palestinian conflict exemplifies its poor foreign-policy consensus record .
moreover , in countries where google is criticized for blocking access to information , this points out the absence of information when something is blocked – letting people know that it exists but that it can not access . on the other hand , every time that someone in china googles something and gets the answer – a product good and bad points , details about someone a government like – he has to wonder , “ why ca n’t i get this kind of information about everything ? ” with google , people start to expect answers about everything . some transparency inevitably leads to more . so , rather than demand an end to censorship now – an impossible dream that google works to make that happen , by eroding government control over information .
although no outcome was formally agreed or made public , a number of themes emerged from the beijing meeting . taken together , they offer grounds for confidence that it can be recreated international consensus , so long missing in syria , about how to deal with the most difficult mass-atrocity cases . first , there was widespread acceptance that the “ responsibility to protect ” ( r2p ) doctrine unanimously endorsed by the un general assembly in 2005 is here to stay . r2p recognizes that sovereign states possess a responsibility to protect their people from genocide , ethnic cleansing , crimes against humanity , and war crimes ; that other states have responsibility to assist them ; and that , if a state is “ manifestly not ” to protect its people , the wider the international community has a responsibility to tread with “ timely and decisive action , ” which might in an extreme case include a military action if endorsed by the un security council . true , some chinese scholars remain inclined to argue that an entire r2p enterprise – notably , its sanction of military action in exceptional cases – is
so a global economy should indeed be thought of as a global capitalist system . global integration has brought tremendous benefits : the international division of labor , which has so clearly been proved by the theory of comparative advantage ; dynamic benefits like scale economies and the rapid spread of innovations from one country to another , which are less easy to demonstrate by static equilibrium theory ; and noneconomic rewards , such as freedom of choice associated with the international movement of goods , capital , and people , and the freedom of thought linked to the international movement of thought . but , in the absence of problems in global capitalism ; we have to understand these better if we wish the system to survive . by focusing on these problems , i am not working to belittle the rewards of globalization . i believe that it will be sustained by deliberate , persistent only by deliberate and persistent efforts to correct and contain the system ’s shortcomings .
trump has been portraying the report ’s findings as thoroughly exonerating him ( “ no collusion , no obstruction ” ) , though the report explicitly stated that this was not the case . worse to trump , the widely admired mueller in effect recommended that congress commit the impeachment process . mueller explained that a controversial department of justice , aimed to help president richard nixon , bars impeachment of a sitting president . this was n’t in the constitution . ( nixon was an unindicted collaborator in watergate ’s burglary cover-up , while trump is one in the new york times case involving his participation in pre-election payoffs to silence two women , with whom he had sexual liaisons shortly after his son , barron , was born . )
indeed , with the aim of russian “ peacekeeping troops ” in abkhazia and south ossetia , georgian other secession-minded regions have been protected against their own rebel-minded regions . russia , too , has been enforcing a full trade embargo on georgia in the hope of weakening resolving its pro-western president , mikhail saakashvili . indeed , should russia recognize abkhazia ’s independence , saakashvili might be tempted to react militarily to prevent his country from unraveling . restored conflict in abkhazia would not merely risk open warfare with russia ; they are strain relations with armenia , given that there are close to 50,000 armenians in abkhazia who are supporting the breakaway government . another risk in the south caucasus comes from the fact that the russian government ( with armenian backing ) will acknowledge nagorno-karabakh ’s self-proclaimed independence from azerbaijan .
europe must make progress on the front opportunity if it is to seize second ; that means strengthening the eurozone . on this front , macron has already offered ambitious proposals : a separate eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister accountable for it , and a eurozone parliament ( comprising european parliamentarians and national parliamentarians ) to hold the finance minister accountable . before germany ’s new grand coalition government was formed , a franco-german working group was established in order to consider macron ’s proposals . now that merkel ’s new administration is under course , we can figure out just how far germany is willing to go to supporting greater eurozone cohesion . in the short run , the new government seems unlikely to support macron ’s proposals in their current form .
moreover , the recent establishment of two other large mdbs – the asian infrastructure investment bank and the brics countries ’ new development bank ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) – will contribute further to a more balanced public-private mix in development finance . at the same time , the financial crisis has prompted some in europe , africa , and asian governments to establish new ndbs , with other countries to expand theirs . as a result , ndbs ’ overall assets reaching roughly $ 5 trillion in 2015 . what is important today is the fact that they are an important feature of most developed and middle-income countries ’ financial sectors , especially china , germany , india , and south korea . and large ndbs can have a major impact , mainly in the emerging economies .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . as i pointed out earlier this year , the conservatives ’ plan would essentially solve one big problem – rundown britain ’s diplomatic service – by creating a much larger problem : the loss of britain ’s soft power .
so what should the us and other governments that support liberal democracy do now ? the answer could impact egypt ’s political future , and that of countries in the region as a whole . as so many commentators have emphasized , from the islamists ’ standpoint , morsi ’s removal looks remarkably like the algerian military ’s overthrow of 1992 ( with us support ) of an elected islamist government ; the turkish military ’s “ soft coup ” in 1997 , after forcing an elected islamist government from power ; and america ’s government ’s reversal of its support for “ arab democracy ” after hamas won its election in gaza in 2006 . if a choice to islamists still bullets or ballots , bullets may now look more promising . more generally , military interference with civilian politics , for whatever reason , weakens the processes , institutions , and checks on state power that make liberal democracy works .
for example , in the early 2000s , rwanda and ethiopia recruited and trained thousands of such workers to take the lead in fighting malaria , by educating communities on prevention and detection , distributing tools like bed nets , and administering treatment . as a result , malaria incidence fell 75 % from 2000 to 2015 . yet the world continues consistently to underestimate frontline health workers ’ capabilities and contributions . this not only undermines their ability to make their jobs work effectively ; it also puts them at considerable risk , with widespread misinformation about vaccines fueling attacks against those who grant them . consider pakistan , where hardline clerics and militants view polio vaccination programs as western ploys to sterilize and spy on muslims .
once the potential “ military threat ” posed by the soviet union faded into thin air , successive waves of nato ’s enlargement served neither military nor ideological purpose . the rationale for enlargement in the west was geopolitical : to bring former soviet republics and socialist states into central and eastern europe ’s western sphere of political and economic influence . at first , nato ’s new members were declared to have met both democratic and military criteria . later , those criteria were abandoned when nato began inviting even its most backward and corrupt states to join . moreover , nato , not only enlarged its membership , but also transformed itself from an anti-communist defensive alliance into offensive grouping ( with operations in yugoslavia , iraq , and afghanistan ) .
ironically , this was leading the imf to focus its oversight role . so , in searching for causes of the imf ’s failure , we may rule out distraction by more urgent issues . normally , the fund expects problems to come from the usual suspects – economically volatile developing countries – but this time the crisis was developing several kilometers away from its headquarters . perhaps this proximity was at the root of the imf ’s failure to interpret the evidence right under its nose . if it does , it is an inability that raises two key questions .
it is a shift that raises the core question : if those ready to act prove incapable of doing so “ successfully ” what happens to global stability unless those who are capable now are also willing to step in with them as well ? at the crossroads of that question stands nato , an organization considered by america by europeans and internationally ( that is , not the american ) by the average american citizen . but if nato is – to the better or , worse , in command of the ground in libya , there is the un that has given the necessary green light to french action there . it is this specific “ marriage of reason ” between france and the un , which is essential to understanding france ’s position in libya . indeed , the same relationship between france and the un , which led to the country ’s resistance to us intervention in iraq in 2003 , has now pushed france to intervene in libya in 2011 .
but if that hour were really a lunch with the lobbyist , they ( and their aides ) would have to lie deliberately to hide . there is , of course , no way to enforce full disclosure but by forming explicit processes and expectations , we hope to reset the norms . if an official meets a lobbyist , and shame is not shame , he can simply say so . voters can make their own judgments . and , if the bureaucrats are most meeting the lobbyists at the expense of other kinds of meetings , voters may make judgments , too .
and there is the risk that tech giants will use their vast armies of programmers to develop near-identical goods , and their vast legal resources to defend it . big tech firms could argue that all of the capital they pour into new products and services is pushing innovation . but one suspects that intent in many circumstances is nip potential competition at the bud . it is notable that big tech still derives most of its revenues from its firms ’ core product – apple ’s iphone , microsoft ’s bureau , and google search engine , for example . in practice , potentially disruptive new technologies are as likely to bury them as fed .
historically , both state and federal attorney generals have preferred the prosecution of “ occasional ” traders who stick out like sore thumb . for example , having won a tiny italian bank from someone who never traded in a large ranking to the shares of u.s. shoe shortly before the company acquired an italian eyewear maker luxottica , the odor fish was not hard to smell . in other words , precisely because occasional traders rarely trade , it ’s much easier to prove the nexus of causality between their trades and their illegal tip . by contrast , it is far more difficult to identify a problem when , on a daily basis , a person makes hundreds of trades . in rajaratnam ’s case , opportunities to establish such linkages have emerged through telephone surveillance .
african girls are also disproportionately vulnerable to contracting hiv , and women and young women are also disproportionately vulnerable to the hiv virus . roughly 90 % of all pregnant women and children with hiv live in africa , and , despite notable recent reductions in hiv transmission rates , adolescent girls still account for more than twice as likely as boys of equal age to pursue the virus . yet hardly a third among young africans know how to prevent hiv – another reason for urgent , comprehensive sexuality education . another epidemic afflicting african women is violence , all too often perpetrated with impunity . sexual violence is used as a tactic of war .
new york – many historians and economists insist that we live in an age shaped by vast and impersonal forces . the actions and decisions of one man or woman , regardless of the powerful , can not identify nations ’ destiny . this can be true for much or most . but moments are occurring when individual leader choices can change the course of history . that has certainly been true in russia , and may soon turn true in turkey just as much as it is .
as i show in a new peer-reviewed paper , even though successful , the paris agreement would cut temperatures by only 0.05 percentage fahrenheit in 2100 . sea-level rises would have been cut by only 1.3 centimeters in 2100 . this may seem surprising : we constantly hear how each country has made important commitments to cut co2 emissions – the so-called “ intended nationally determined contributions ” or indcs . according to the un climate chief , christiana figueres , “ indcs have the capability to limit predicted temperature levels to around 2.7 ºc by 2100 ; by 2100 , they have the potential to do enough , but well below the estimated four , the five , or more degrees of warming projected by much prior . ” figueres suggested that the paris agreement would cut almost 2 ° c of warming , from 4.5 ° c to 2.7 ° c. the paris accord would cut the limit to 2 ° c . even though her wording was crafted to avoid saying this , it was predictably what most people have heard .
anti-euro political forces make electoral inroads clearly , and they will continue to gain ground as long as growth remains anemic and unemployment remains stubbornly high . meanwhile , the eu will most often not pursue substantial policy or institutional reforms in the near run , for fear that doing so could adversely affect the result of consequential elections this year in the netherlands , france , germany , and possibly italy . an alternative view holds that brexit , trump ’s election , and the rise of populist and nationalist parties will serve as a wake-up call , spur europe toward broader integration and growth-oriented policies . this would require eu policymakers to abandon the view that each country is solely responsible for getting its own house to order while upholding eu fiscal , financial , and regulatory commitments . upholding eu rules is no longer practical , because the current system imposes far too many constraints and contains far too few effective adjustment mechanisms .
russians realized the need not win at all costs ; they could be great without the kremlin ’s militaristic say-like . then the pension reform was announced , spurring the string of protests that drove putin to pledge to soften the measure while questioning putin ’s understanding of russians . yet , as of september 3 , 53 % declared themselves ready to protest further . and , on september 9 , while local government elections took place , tens of thousands of russians were joining a protest organized by the anti-corruption lawyer alexei navalny , defying the prohibition of “ political agitation ” on election days . navalny himself had no opportunity to attend the event after being arrested for an previous unsanctioned demonstration .
china squandered its economic and technological potential by itself , not owing to the external force . by the time europe and china crossed paths in the 1839-42 opium wars , an increasingly technologically superior europe had vast military advantages and made it so forced china into a series of unilateral , humiliating concessions . china ’s imperial state – and society – were destabilized by european incursions . the imperial dynasty collapsed in 1911 under external pressures and internal demands for change . change , however , has not come smooth .
the apparent success of these cities , as both governments and economic centers , attests to the fact that urban land derives value from the presence of a well planned city there . where land today is cheap comes great value in the future if only someone takes a dramatic step in planning , creating an entire city there . true , establishing such cities is relatively scarce . private developers have difficulty obtaining a large-scale plot of free restrictions . but they tend ingenious at developing glamorous new areas , from little towns , within an hour ’s commute from the major cities .
this can be done last for uribe , but it will create increasing friction with chavez 's economic realty and increasing chavez 's incentive to be authoritarian . there is no imminent crisis in this direction . if he opens up his economy and adjusts the exchange rate , growth and stability will be the path . if he goes back on the /populist side , 2001 will be a year of crisis . so far , venezuela 's elite , along with much of the investment community , predicted the worst and behaved accordingly : no plans for chavez , with no viable options , merely badmouthing .
growth forecast a return over trend by 2005-06 . in the us , the average budget surplus since this cycle began is 0.8 % of gdp . huge surpluses over the next three years have far exceeded official deficits forecasts in the coming two years . this means that the us treasury expects that the average surplus since 1992000 to stabilize at 0.7 % of gdp to the cycle until the end of this cycle , allowing brown ’s strictures of the budget to be met . but independent forecasters are more pessimistic , at best .
instead , strategies have come from the view that all our behaviors are selfish , with the intellectual call to design “ incentive-compatible ” mechanisms or contracts , an effort that was also recognized with nobel prizes . but , as georgia price showed long ago , darwinian evolution may have made us altruistic , at least towards people we perceive as members of a group we call “ us . ” the new revolution in economics may find the venue for strategists , based on affecting ideals and identities and not just taxes and subsidies . in the process , we may understand that we vote , because it is what citizens should be doing and excel at our jobs , because our efforts to respect and self-realization may be a matter of respect not just a raise . if successful , the new revolution might lead us to strategies that make us more responsive to our better angels .
such openly thuggish rulers like kuchma of ukraine or belarus 's lukashenka make it almost impossible to imagine in romania nowadays . moreover , joining nato means subsuming romania 's military and intelligence services under nato command ( i.e. , american ) controlling , so any attempt at staging a coup , or stirring up trouble between romanian and our sizeable hungarian minority , can be thwarted . the more tightly tied to the democratic world a country like romania , the less likely that it is to experience dramatic social or political unrest or eviscerate its democratic system . nato fixes hard limits on local political elites ’ autonomy to do what they want . nato can , of course , not safeguard democracy alone , and there is no panacea for our many social and political illnesses ; yet it can act ( and has already done so during the eu process of admission ) as an urge for governments and parties to behave responsibly and abide by the rule of law .
this is the underlying dynamic that drives corruption in china today . in fact , the consequences of leadership deflation are easy to see : faltering economic dynamism and growth , rising social tensions , and the loss of government ’s credibility . the puzzle is why neither the compelling self-destructive logic of autocratic rule nor rising evidence of deteriorating regime performance in china has persuaded even some knowledgeable observers that the ccp ’s end rule is now distinct . an obvious explanation is the power of conventional thinking . long-ruling regimes – the think of the former communist party of soviet , indonesia ’s suharto , and egypt ’s hosni mubarak in the past – are typically considered invulnerable , even before they collapse .
some readers may say that nikita khrushchev ’s granddaughter falsely declared , gaveled at his shoe at the united nations general assembly in the 1960 ’s , should steer clear of the topic of world leaders ’ manners . but it is a point to point that recent chinese behavior is being made . when it comes to diplomacy offhandedness , the chinese had long had what british gamblers would call “ form . ” on the visit of the soviet union , mao zedong famously refused to take advantage of the flush toilet adjoining his room , and instead used the chamber pot he brought from china . perhaps he suspected stalin that , like the bbc allegedly last year , he collecting and analyzing his feces to glean information about the great , helmsman ’s temperament .
indeed , today ’s potential heir need legitimacy , not only from powerful oligarchs , but also from the streets . that is why so-called “ system liberals , ” or kremlin-backed loyalists want a degree of control in protest movements and use it as levers in the final struggle with “ putin ’s military and security apparatus ” ( putin ’s military and security establishment ) . system liberals believe that russia has built the economy as a whole . its further evolution requires only dismantling some of putin ’s cronies through controlled political reform . until recently , loyalists argued that the quest for change precludes criticizing a government that somehow should be influenced by constructive suggestions .
my office worked closely with the state to assure that in most cases juries are exploited in the first place . similarly , my office defended the liberal weekly newspaper novoe vremya ( novel times ) , which was being pushed by moscow 's city governors on the pretext of a commercial rent dispute . that struggle is not over , but after my interference , moscow 's authorities must take into account the public 's negative attitude toward their efforts to quash this publication . of course , russia provides far more headline-grabbling examples of political and human-rights problems , such as the " low grade war " in chechnya or yukos 's affair . my office pays maximum attention in chechnya , even though this is not easy to do from moscow .
new delhi – international discussion of china ’s rise has centered on its increasing commercial muscle , growing maritime ambitions , and expanding its capacity to project military power . one critical issue , however , usually escapes attention : china ’s rise as a hydropower hegemon with no modern historic parallels . no other country has ever managed to assume such unchallenged riparian preeminence on the continent via control of multiple international rivers and manipulating their cross-border flows . china , the the world ’s major dam builder – with slightly more than half of the planet ’s roughly 50,000 large dams – quickly accumulates leverage against its neighbors by undertaking massive hydro-engineering projects on transnational rivers . asia ’s water map fundamentally changed after the 1949 communist victory of china .
they pose continued risks to economic stability without offering compensating advantages in terms of boosted investment in productive activities . as stanford ’s anat admati and others have long argued , banks require at least at least higher capital requirements and tighter regulatory scrutiny . escaping relatively unscathed from the 2008-2009 crisis speaks volumes to their political power . as financial regulation ’s failures imply , significant as such economic reform requires complemented with measures that redress political access asymmetry . in the americas , holding workdays elections rather than weekends or holidays – together with restrictive registration rules , gerrymandering , and myriad other electoral rules – places ordinary workers at a significant disadvantage .
for israel , an occupying power whose people enjoy democratic civilian authority , as well as a gdp tens of times the popular rejection of basic rights of freedom and independence , photo opportunities provided by the meeting , plus greeting palestinian leaders , have replaced the peace process . a serious look returned at the 17 years since yassir arafat and yitzhak rabin shook hands in the white house lawn is revealing . the number of illegal jewish settlements and settlers has more than doubled in the areas israel occupied in 1967 . negotiators have paraded every possible resolution of the permanent-statehood issues of jerusalem , borders , settlements , refugees , and economic relations . leaders of the world ’s superpowers , united nations officials , elders , and tens of people of goodwill offered their goodwill offices and service to bring about peace .
in other words , the export miracle sparked not just state-sponsored chinese companies , but rather offshore efficiency solutions crafted by western companies . this led to the economic equivalent of a personal identity crisis : who is china – them or the us ? in personal relationships , denial tends to mask imbalances – but only for so long . ultimately , denial cracks and imbalances give rise to frictions and blame – holding a codependent partner accountable for one ’s own making problem . like these , the us and china , such has been the case .
as lamy put it , almost 80 % of the curry curry favor are prepared ; we need only additional spices from the major players - india , the european union , the us , brazil and china . these can be provided in politically palatable ways , which is also the conclusion of doha within our reach rather than beyond our grasp . yet why bother to continue trying ? if doha fails , some say , life will go along , too . that is true , of course , but that makes this outlook no less naïve .
suddenly , the eu has awakened also to the need for a common external energy-security policy , not least to diversify its economy away from russian supplies . given that 20 % of russian gas destined for europe passes via belarus , a stable and structured relationship with its government has turned into priorities . in turn , lukashenko has decided on the economic ground his country needs eu support , and can not depend exclusively on russia without paying a heavy political price . but the thaw in eu-belarus relations is needed for reciprocal , permanent steps . after all , no eu strategic partnership is unconditional .
paris – the world is witnessing a drastic decline in its natural capital . plant and animal species have been vanishing at an unprecedented pace – 100 to 1,000 times the rate of natural extinction . in the developing world , the planet ’s most compromised ecosystems are located , and therefore depend on some of the world ’s neediest communities to preserve them . conversely , poor tend to suffer the most from the deterioration of their natural environment . but , in the developed world , immediate economic needs often override long-term imperatives and protect a fragile environment rarely take the national level of priority .
africa has an exceptionally wealthy clean-energy asset portfolio , including nearly nine terawatts of solar capacity , more than 350 gigawatts of hydropower capacity , and more than 100 gw of wind-power potential . this , in fact , is more than enough to meet the continent ’s future demand . likewise , renewables become less expensive , making them increasingly competitive with fossil-fuel alternatives . for example , the price of the “ petrolelity-scale photovoltaic solar power ” in africa dropped 50 % from 2010 to 2014 , continuing to decline today . and south africa ’s renewable-energy independent power producer procurement program has viewed overall downward in bid prices and oversubscription rates .
paris – immigration-related headlines have become staple in europe , whether the story is the illegal malian immigrant scaling paris to rescue a toddler or the formation of a populist government in italy that aims to deport a half-million migrants . and yet , despite the issues ’ constant coverage – or , more likely , precisely because of it , the immigration policy debate remains beset by misconceptions and politicization . in the united kingdom , the brexit vote fueled partly by false and distorted assertion , such as unrestrained migration from the rest of europe , driving down wages . since the brexit vote , however , the anti-immigration camp has engaged with similar distortions , warning that once it has left the european union , the uk will face skills shortfalls . but plenty of countries – like australia , canada , and singapore – do just fine without agreements guaranteeing freedom of movement from other countries by issuing a skills-matching visa .
that is not to suggest that , in order to scrap or revise gdp , we should recognize its limitations . the gdp problem is not that it is a poor measure of material well-being ( that setting aside distributional issues ) , but that it is incomplete . it does not involve an increase in the scope of goods and services delivered at negative incremental costs or the unmaterial side of individual well-being or social progress more generally . looking ahead , the same cost-structure dynamics promise to generate large increases in many areas of wellbeing . most medical professionals will soon have digital assistants to offer diagnoses ( especially for certain cancers , diabetic retinopathy , and other chronic illnesses ) , perform non-invasive surgeries , or find pertinent published research .
whereas psephological studies in the united states have demonstrated that the poor do not vote in significant numbers ( presidential-election turnout in harlem averaged 23 % on average , ahead of barack obama ’s two candidacies ) , india ’s opposing is the opposite . in india , it is the poor who take the time to line in a hot sun believing that their votes will make a difference , while more privileged voters , knowing that their opinions and numbers will do little to influence the outcome , have been staying home at home . studies of indian elections consistently show that the poorest vote in numbers well above a national average , while educated middle-class turn out in numbers well below it . a significant change in the social composition of india ’s policymakers and bureaucrats since independence is really evidence of democracy at work . but many lament that the country ’s poor political class ’s performance in general offers less cause for celebration .
should we be watching the french presidential campaign with admiration or alarm ? nor is the doubt of a great “ show , ” with all the ingredients of the hollywood blockbuster , including surprising conspiracy twist : the emergence of the “ third man , one man , ” françois bayrou . even if his victory remains unlikely , bayrou now must seriously take place in the us . first and foremost , he found in ségolène royal and nicolas sarkozy two remarkable spokespersons for his candidacy .
but that may change in response to us president donald trump ’s escalating attacks on the rules-based trading system . japan recently agreed to negotiate a preferential trade agreement with the united states that could challenge one of the pillars of the multilateral trading system : the “ favored nation ” ( mfn ) obligation to grant any concessions or privileges to one country in the wto must spread to all wto members . here , japan is acting again to “ voluntarily ” under intense pressure from the us . in fact , according to press reports , trump has presented japan with a stark choice : open its ( very protected ) market to american agricultural exports , or face increased us tariffs on automobiles and other industrial goods . regaining access to japan ’s agricultural market would seem to render trump ’s “ national security ” concerns over imported toyotas and hondas – a justification that enables it to circumvent wto rules with his tariffs .
not unlike holland in the early 1980s , brazil ’s economy today faces the challenge of stimulating rapid employment growth amid fiscal constraints and high interest rates . while brazil ’s registered unemployment rate is not very high by regional norms , its rapidly growing labor force requires high job-creation rates . emulating dutch experience with job-creation provides the surest path to alleviate the poverty line in brazil . the idea is not that brazil should seek to implement the dutch socio-economic model – countries are simply too different for this . but lula can and should follow kok ’s example and use his union connections , along with his rapport , to achieve a social pact aimed at achieving sustained improvement in brazil ’s overall economic performance , and to realize his potential to become latin america ’s economic powerhouse .
consider emma gonzález , a previously unknown florida teenager who has “ assembled ” two times as twitter followers than the national rifle association almost overnight . by following an eloquent survivor from the parkland massacre , 1.66 million twitter users signaled their support for stronger gun-control regulations , and their opposition to america ’s gun lobby . assembly in physical space , however , fulfills functions for the democracy that online activism , however permanent or passionate , may simply be impossible to do . in 2011 , when then-us representative barney frank asked why occupy wall street protesters “ think that simply being in physical space does much , ” an appropriately appropriate response would have gone : “ actually occupying public spaces can accomplish a great thing , ” depending on whom occupiers are , and how many they number . ” hence , civil-rights marchers in the us during the 1950s and 1960s often evoked the “ meaning of our numbers . ”
economic commentators are better at rationalizing past exchange-rate movements than at forecasting future trends . so , when it comes to explaining for the past year ’s dollar ’s decline , we are confronted with an embarrassment of riches . the most popular explanation for the dollar ’s weakness is that trump , through incompetence or misdirection , has failed to deliver what he has promised . there was no across-the-board import tariff . there was not a abrogation of the north american free trade agreement , either .
to be sure , some worried about the collapse of household saving rates , but few were overly concerned . in one of his recent articles , milton friedman wrote that the saving rate today took the form of the houses . to me , this view of things explains far better than the orthodox accounts why for all money-pumping by central banks , commercial banks have not started lending again ; and the economic recovery has petered out . just as lenders did not force money in the wake of the crisis , so now they can not force heavily indebted households to borrow , or companies to seek credit to expand production when markets become flat or shrinking . in short , recovery may not be left to the fed , the european central bank , or the bank of england .
but there seem to be some fundamental rules of political survival ignored in australia in the past few years , and spelling them could help both alp and others remember them . the first rule is to possess a philosophy – and stick . bob hawke – and paul keating two decades ago – did just that , essentially inventing the “ third way ” model that later became associated with tony blair and gordon brown in britain . its elements were clear : dry , free-market economics ( but in our case with low-paid workers benefiting immensely from a “ social wage ” ( raising medicare and retirement incomes ) ; compassionate social policy ; and a liberal internationalist foreign policy . by contrast , the incumbent alp government has struggled until now to re-create anything as compelling .
this is the fifth piece of the comprehensive plan , and we can do that . finally , to absorb and integrate more than one million asylum-seekers and migrants annually , the eu needs to do so by mobilizing the private sector – ngos , church groups , and businesses – to act as sponsors . that will require not just sufficient funding , but also the human and capacity to match migrants and their sponsors . the exodus from war-torn syria should never have become a crisis . it had long been made easy to foresee , with eminently manageable european and international communities .
a corollary is that wealth drops as the value of fuel-inefficient homes , gluttonous cars , and the oil companies ’ share declines . the problem does not originate in the utility of a price-instrument . it would be the same in a planned economy : a carbon efficiency tax would also demand the old , inefficient appliances to be discarded , and an additional investment to make gdp less carbon-intensive . with recent estimates placing the required additional investment at some 2 % of gdp in 2040 , a correspondingly smaller share of output will be available for household consumption . furthermore , the distributional effects of a green transition are unfortunately adverse .
yet it also represents an occasion to forge a new uk-eu partnership . and , beyond that , things could have been much worse . owing largely to the withdrawal agreement that struck italy earlier this october , a destructive “ hard ” brexit has been averted . since the start of brexit negotiations , the us on the eu has sided with those of the 27 member states and the european commission – that the bloc ’s core interests have not strayed away or lost sight of the need for unity and solidarity . our priority was first , and foremost , to secure the rights of europeans , including by seeking a solution for northern ireland ’s peoples ’ and ireland , for whom the brexit negotiations were about peace and stability , not just in trade and economy .
the israeli-palestinian conflict continues to be the diplomatic charade that it has for many years now . and nothing has attenuated tensions between israel and both syria and lebanon . history teaches that diplomacy all too often produces results only when backed by overwhelming power . such was the existentialist worldview of us president and nobel peace prize laureate theodore roosevelt , a prominent supporter of american expansionism : “ a just war is , for the long run , far better for one ’s soul than the most prosperous peace . ” a century later , a century later , the next american president , barack obama , immersed in two hopeless wars in the middle east , received his nobel peace prize with the apology of “ just wars . ”
yet , today , as iran 's leverage grows and islamist terrorism continues to proliferate , palestine is the latest of saudi arabia ’s worries . so fundamental are the changes in the kingdom ’s strategic interests , which , despite being the custodian of islam ’s holiest sites , have stated nothing as us president donald trump recognized jerusalem as israel ’s “ eternal capital . ” other sunni gulf monarchies , like egypt , have gone further , engaging in security cooperation with israel . politics is superseding religiosity within israel , too . prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s expansionist drive in the west bank is about political might , not judaism .
europe is abuzz with mergers not only to take advantage of europe ’s wider economic space , but to confront hard competition in world markets , too . in sum , the old continent is hot . nobody can say how deep the change will go , nor how fast they will shift europe into the fast lane . no day passes without major headlines of large mergers in europe ; germany ablaze as its mammoth corporations outperform matites . in france , big strategic plays are underway in banks and fashion ; italy views its major players on a european and world scale .
germany ’s binding fiscal rules , which were established as a positive example for other eurozone countries , should be seen . but all eurozone governments need a demonstration of their own commitment to fiscal consolidation to restore confidence in markets – and to their own citizens , among other countries . recent studies show that once a government debt burden reaches the threshold perceived to be unsustainable , more debt will only stunt , not stimulate , economic growth . greece ’s debt crisis was an unequivocal warning that european policymakers must not allow public debt to pile up indefinitely . for the eurozone , the eu was correct to react decisively to ensuring the stability of the euro by granting short assistance to greece , and to establishing the european financial stabilization mechanism .
not seen as part of native russian people , jews were assumed to belong to an international cabal and therefore to be inherently treacherous . but stalin did not invent this idea . in the 1930s , fascists and nazis also denounced jews , as marxists and freemasons , as “ cosmopolitans ” or “ internationalists ” – a people whose loyalty was suspects . it is the sort of vocabulary emerging from nativist movements hostile to ethnic or religious or religious minorities , or to financial or intellectual elites who supposedly conspire to undermine the nation ’s true sons and daughters . to prewar fascists , the us was often viewed as the symbol of cosmopolitan decadence .
“ they should not come close to shariah . it is worth above the constitution , rather than an article for a referendum . ” but was the ansar al-shariah brigade really behind an attack on a us consulate in america ? the nature of libya ’s post-revolution armed islamist forces is by no means straightforward . salafi jihadism is not an organization , but an ideological trend built on the core belief that armed tactics of every kind are the most effective – and in some version – method to bring about a social and political change .
their hopes were surely diminished further when they saw bulldozers arrive in preparing the ground for new settlements – not an uncommon occurrence . the number of israelis living in exclusively jewish settlements in the west bank tripled in 1993 since the signing of the memorandum of understanding among the palestine liberation organization . in any case , israel now seems to have dropped the charade . in london early this month , netanyahu refused three times to answer questions from the press about his endorsement of a two-state solution . more recently , he said that his ultimate goal is for palestinians to have a palestinian “ state minus ” that is limited in size and national sovereignty .
the euro ’s design flaws – an economic union motivated by politics but expressed in economics – have become manifest . structural changes in economies that experienced sharp declines in interest rates when they allied themselves with the germany-dominated currency bloc are now bound to make rapid progress , crisis , and without the luxury of devaluation . the pain that this policy is generating has been revealed in protests across the continent , and in the bitter impact of the struggles on many families , the young , and the elderly . the pro-european foundation was partly the promise of ever upward prosperity . at present , that promise is badly in question .
after all , the problem after all is not in east germany , but rather in the west . unification meant not only receiving the benefits of west german economic institutions – property rights and hard money – but also all disastrously negative institutions : unions , overpaying unemployment , and excessive job insecurity , pervasive regulation . were west germany in the face of german unification , it rolled back all of these unaffordable limits to free play by markets in the future , the economic costs would go far lower : east and west germany would have more almost full employment , the drivers of productivity have far more aggressive . germany ’s corporatism , of course , did not make such a solution possible : unions wanted their wages protected . the only way to ensure them was to pay lots of government into unemployment compensation in a high wage east germany .
amman – recently , israel ’s vice prime minister , shaul mofaz , has offered a clear veto over key issues in the middle east peace process . any return to the golan heights to syria would result in an “ iranian foothold ” on israel ’s border , and thus be not only politically naïve but irrational . mofaz ’s statement is symptomatic of a perception that is now deeply rooted , not just in the middle east , but also in the united states . that notion is of a hegemonic iran that is trying to dominate the region through a variety of shiite proxies . this iranian fifth column , which is believed to stretch from beirut via damascus , gaza to baghdad , and ultimately from iran to saudi-arabia to yemen . recent armed clashes between hezbollah and the lebanese government are said , simply another sign of iran ’s hegemonic reach .
stanford – successful political candidates are trying to implement the proposals that they ran . in the united states , president barack obama and the democrats , control of the house of representatives and ( filibuster-proof ) senate , had the power to do virtually whatever they wanted in 2009 – and so did . obama and his congressional allies enacted the $ 800 billion “ stimulus bill , ” loaded with programs aimed at key democratic constituencies such as environmentalists and public workers ; embraced sweeping , highly unpopular health-care reform ( whose constitutionality will be determined by the supreme court this year ) ; imposed vast new regulation on wide swaths of the economy ; embraced the industrial policies that selects some special treatment companies ; engaged in borrowing and spending levels surpassed only in the second half of world war ii ; and centralized power in washington , dc ( and , within the federal government , executive branch and regulatory agencies ) . the last election that followed such sweeping policy direction happened in 1980 , when president ronald reagan overhauled taxes , spending and regulation ; and supported the federal reserve
all sides agree that the stability of the international economy predicated on a system that rules global rules . what is disputed is the nature of these rules . opponents of trade liberalization decry secretiveness and “ non-democratic ” nature of the wto , and the influence of corporate interests within rule-making . they see an trading system privileges business over labor , environmental , and consumer safety . developing countries complain about restrictive rules applied to their exports ( garments , agricultural products , labor services ) , and the fear that new demands that they confront the labor force and the environment undermine the competitiveness of their workers .
but , having been fighting for freedom from apartheid from south africa , geingob says , namibia must defend the freedoms it championed . besides , geingob recognizes how that transparency protects it from demands for favors from corporate - and other interest groups . not all namibia ’s key resources are finite . some – like fisheries – are renewable , while the government has worked hard to preserve and enhance them at a time of time . most important , unlike most other resource-dependent economies , it has succeeded in diversifying the economy – to the point that services account for more than 60 % of its gdp , with tourism leading the way .
gordon ’s vulnerability is his shortened times horizon for ir # 3 . consider the following four sentences in his paper : · both the first two revolutions required about 100 years for their full effects to perass through the economy . ” · at a minimum , it took 150 years for ir # 1 to have its full range of effects . · “ the inventions of ir # 2 were so significant … that they took a full 100 years to have their main effect . ”
given all of this , the most critical policy question in emerging markets nowadays is how to respond to inflows that will inevitably drive their exchange rates down and jeopardize export-led growth . the first possibility is to do nothing , and to allow the currency to appreciate . this may be the right response , as long as inflows and upward exchange-rate pressures fueled fundamental factors ( the current-account surplus , an undervalued currency , a large and persistent growth differential ) . but in many cases , inflows are driven by short-term factors , fads , and irrational exuberance , which may lead to a overvalued currency , crowding out non-traditional export sectors or import-competing industries , loss of competitiveness , and eventual large current-account deficits and thus tighter external constraints on growth . this trouble is aggravated by the fact that the world ’s largest exporter , china , wants to intervene aggressively to minimize any appreciation of the renminbi .
plunging the debt-service sector is largely an outgrowth of the fed ’s unprecedented zero-interest-rate policy . as long as the stock of debt remains excessive , consumers dismiss falling interest expenditures as nothing more than a temporary subsidy to the fed . moreover , the decline in the unemployment rate largely reflects persistently grim labor-market conditions , which have discouraged many workers from remaining in the labor force . as long as the federal participation rate were 66 % , as it was in early 2008 , rather than 62.8 % , as it did in december 2013 , the unemployment rate would be just over 11 % rather than 6.7 % . yes , some progress has been made on the road to recovery .
but while she likes to raise her voice , she acts with caution : germany ’s fiscal adjustment today is very gradual in reality . countries facing fiercest budget battles are eu , the united kingdom , and the us , where fiscal deficits exceeded 10 % of gdp in 2010 . in london , prime minister david cameron is on the offensive . on assuming office , he entrusted budgetary forecasting to the new independent office for budgetary responsibilities ( obr ) , thereby forfeiting any sleight-of-hand opportunity . he then announced a bold consolidation program to cut the cyclically adjusted deficit by 1.5 % of gdp per year , thereby targeting a fiscal deficit of 3.5 % of gdp in 2013 .
indeed , demilitarization of sinai has been one of the fundamental elements of egypt ’s peace with israel . other large and independent countries such as japan , germany , and austria have been subjected to decades of constraints on their acquisition of certain weapons and military equipment . likewise , the refusal of palestinian refugees ’ claim to the right of return to israel is understandable , logical , and just . what sense would it force millions of palestinians to return to a state whose character and symbols are foreign to them – a state where the majority belongs to another ethnic group ? are they set back to homes and farms that no longer exist ?
in austria , voters are set to choose between a pro- and anti-eu candidate in le pen ’s nationalistic mold , norbert hofer of the austrian freedom party ( fpö ) . a victory for hofer could add wind to le pen ’s sails . a constitutional change that renzi ’s yes campaign is demanding that voters approve would undo some of his predecessor , silvio berlusconi , ’s legacy – a legacy that serves as prime examples of damaging right-wing populism can make the country work . among other things , berlusconi has amended italy ’s political system , in such a way , to prevent the left from ever gaining full power again , and to block any criminal charges leveled against him in the first place . renzi ’s proposed reforms , among others , would modernize the political system by disempowering the senate ( the parliament ’s upper house ) .
still , it is important to remember that there is a positive aspect to party self-confidence . as the political scientist kevin o’brien has argued , china ’s increased readiness to compromise with some domestic protesters , rather than treat every form of collective action as subversive , can be viewed as reflecting a growing sense of security . conversely , some of china ’s most worrying moves may chalked up to exaggerated feelings of uncertainty . consider gadfly critic liu xiaobao , sentenced to 11 years in prison on trumped-up charges of “ subversion ” for launching an online petition championing civil liberties . would a truly self-confident ruling elite have been so skittish about activism ?
but discussions about competition and fair trading are once again demonstrating the intellectual poverty and inequity of trade negotiations . anti-dumping laws are designed to ensure fair trade by preventing the sale of goods below cost . within developed countries , there has long been concerns about such behavior – so-called predation '' – and well-defined standards have emerged . with globalization , it would be natural to extend such principles to the international arena , making it irrelevant whether a producer is domestic or overseas if judging whether he has engaged in unfair trade practices . but it does make the difference whether good is produced at home or abroad .
start treaty ratification , however , will be nowhere fast in the american senate , and progress on other key issues has been slow or shaky : bringing the comprehensive test ban treaty into force ; launching negotiations on a new treaty to ban production of fissile material for nuclear weapons ; strengthening the non-proliferation regime with effective measures to detect violations and deter treaty walk-outs ; striking an agreement on a certain form of international management of the most sensitive aspects of the fuel cycle ; and , above all , launching new rounds of serious disarmament talks , involving not just the two nuclear-armed superpowers ; all eight nuclear-armed states . arms-control and disarmament is grinding , unglamorous business , which brings few quick returns . with domestic issues and re-election anxieties now dominating most political agendas , it will be all too easy for commitment to wane . if it is to avoid that outcome , continued us leadership from the top – above all , from obama and russian president dmitri medvedev – will be indispensable . but a number of major contributions being taken together by less powerful states and leaders ,
“ that ’s the investigation ” he responded to that . the military had investigated the military . this “ manifest suicide ” was immediately suspicious . i had just toured those cells : it is literally impossible to kill yourself within them . their interiors resemble the inside , say , smooth plastic jar ; hard edges are not at hand ; hooks fold down ; there is no bedding that one can use to strangle itself .
in south africa , for example , unodc has established three centers ( in mapumalanga , eastern cape , and cape ) to offer legal counsel and health-care services to women , and that work with men to help break the cycles of domestic violence . furthermore , because more needs to be done to improve the world ’s understanding of gender-based violence , unodc is working with the international community in developing a more detailed , accurate picture of the problem . this includes examining the causes of male-on-female violence and assessing associated risk factors , such as the prevalence of drug and alcohol use . but gathering information is only one step toward closing loopholes in criminal laws and overcoming loopholes in prevention policies . decisive policy action , supported by stronger enforcement of relevant laws , is needed to improve reporting and prosecution rates , which remain low in many countries .
the main driver of a higher ex post real return is the relatively high coupon these sovereign bonds offer . beyond the return of history itself , a new account of emerging and developing economies now accounts for roughly two-thirds of global gdp , compared to just one-third 50 % a year ago , when portfolio diversification was almost entirely a domestic affair . adding to the attractiveness of emerging-market sovereign securities portfolios , its returns to capital are not perfectly correlated with equity returns . moreover , there is evidence that creditor rights and enforcement competences in sovereign-debt markets have been rising in the wake of recent american court rulings . those findings are not an invitation to accept indiscriminate risk-taking .
but higher home prices rise , further falling – and the more collateral the economic and financial damage becomes – when the bubble deflates . in countries where non-recourse lending enables borrowers to walk away with their mortgages when its value exceeds that of home , a housing bust , it can result in massive defaults and banking crises . in countries ( for example , sweden ) , where recourse loans allow for seizure of household revenues to enforce payment for mortgage obligations , private consumption may plummet as debt payments ( and , in time , rising interest rates ) crowd out discretionary spending . either way , the result would be the same : recession and stagnation . what we are witnessing in many countries looks like a slow-motion replay of the last housing-market train wreck .
but the arab world is divided on how to cope with the sudden rise of iranian power . tensions are particularly acute in saudi arabia , which has warned a us of the dangers of a possible implosion in iraq , and now finds itself in unequal face-off with iran . some in the kingdom argue that saudi arabia must confront iran , stand up for sunni arab interests , and become a hands-on regional power . other saudis believe that a conflict will lead only to wider wars and urge dialogue and accommodation . in this view , the american , not iran , has produced the region ’s current problems .
beijing – us president donald trump and chinese president xi jinping may have acceded to the g-20 summit in osaka for resume trade negotiations ; but a path to ending the trade war remains far from clear . after all , the two leaders reached a similar deal at the earlier g20 summit – in buenos aires last december – and those talks ultimately fail , not least because trump mistook china ’s conciliatory attitude toward weakness . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
when asked to choose between the risk that a central banker will be known to posterity to the system would collapse , and to the intangible future advantages of teaching risk takers a lesson , it does not take a genius to predict the central banker ’s decision . democracy tends to institutionalize moral hazard in sectors that are economic or politically important , such as finance or real-estate , allowing them to privatize gains and socialize casualties . even though the authorities insist that it makes a different choice the following time , everyone knows that they will make the same decisions when confronted with the same choices again . so , knowing that next time will not be different , the authorities try their best in order to avoid a “ next time . ” but risk takers have every incentive to try their luck again , knowing that at worst they are bailed out .
among the large continental countries , including india and brazil , china has only a small coastline segment , but an extensive internal area . when the main human consumption object was food , this was not a problem , because what matters was land and water . yet , in modern industrial , urban , and market-based societies , what might matter for the increasingly transport costs means that geography can create deep regional inequalities . although such disparities , of course , may have other causes as well , geography also seems to explain much . first , it explains why , earlier rather than later , china ’s offshore regions had developed and faster after the country initiated its market reforms and opened itself to the world .
the idea that some version of soros ’s plan would accelerate growth is speculative at best . the bulk of the benefits from reducing mortgage flows to consumers only over time . as a result , careful calculations about the impact of the fall in mortgage-backed aggregate demand ( which we carried out and that johnson and soros did not ) do not bear out their claims : the extra spending per dollar of relief was probably less than a dime on the dollar expended . this leaves aside the further lesson that comes from experience , that institutions with huge amounts of public capital tend to be very passive about the increasing amount of lending . fifth , in a political environment that prevailed in 2009 , it was hard or impossible to get more money to the troubled asset relief program .
because many contracts are “ sticky ” ( that is , not easy to revised ) in monetary terms , it would both inflict deflation on the economy . rising prices drive down the value of savings and incomes , while falling prices reduce profit expectations , encourage hoarding , and increase the real burden of debt . keynes ’s dictum became the ruling wisdom of monetary policy ( one of his few to survive ) . governments , on the conventional wisdom , should aim at stable prices with modest bias toward inflation in order to spur businessmen and shoppers ’ “ animal spirits ” of the economy . in the us , in the ten years prior to the financial crisis of 2008 , independent central banks established an inflation-targeting target of about 2 % to give price-stability economies a “ anchor . ”
margaret thatcher was always a opponent of the ideal of a politically integrated europe . british hostility to this objective became increasingly fierce , as john major lost his tory majorities in parliament , and slumped under the power of anti-europeans in his own party . nowadays the british seem an insuperable impediment to attainment by others of a more integrated eu . in law , the british can prevent unwelcome developments in the eu because the union rests on a treaty ; the british , therefore , have an effective veto over any treaty change . in practice , the british have already lost that power on the grounds they demanded and received , the right to opt out of participating in the emu .
princeton – democracy everywhere faces serious challenges . the united states is gripped by its bizarre presidential primary ’s campaigns in living memory , with populist outsiders threatening to overthrow the established party machinery . brazil is paralyzed by constitutional crisis , with its political crisis . europeans trace their malaise to democratic deficits . and , in the united kingdom , vision of recovery for national sovereignty is fueling the campaign to leave the eu .
to avoid exciting markets , this would have to be voluntary . persuading bondholders to agree would be challenging – even more so , given the recent court ’s decisions in the united states that strengthen holdout investors ’ hand . but there is no superior alternative . ukraine would be an ideal candidate to re-profiling . given uncertainty about the country ’s near-term prospects , both mega-bailout and full-fledged debt restructuring would be overkill .
in times of shortage , refugees who are likely to be among their first felt effects are the first . water supplies in many refugee camps , in both jordan and lebanon , have been cut to their bare minimum – a decision that affects millions of people who are already enduring scorching temperatures . at rukprohibiting , the jordan refugee camp ’s joint border with syria and iraq , more than 85,500 people each receive barely five liters per day for cooking , drinking , and washing . the situation in yemen is similarly grim . racked by sectarian violence and the civil war , the country has no functioning government to manage water resources .
first , the volume of jgbs has soared relative to the value of japanese household assets . japanese households hold about ¥ 1,100 trillion of net monetary assets , a figure that will be exceeded by about 3-5 years by bs . at that point , us government debt will no longer backed up taxpayers ’ assets . and , reflecting the aging of japanese society , the household saving rate itself will decline dramatically , making it harder for the private sector to finance annual budget deficits . at the same time , japan ’s demographic trends will boost the demand for fiscal spending , because its pension - and health-care expenditures are rising .
much of this was happening in yugoslavia recently , a surprise . after some procrastination and initial failure , milosevic has been arrested , with no bloodshed , though not without peril . the peaceful vote in montenegro last weekend may presage conflict and difficult decisions on independence , but the odds are potent that the parties settle these matters by talking rather than fighting . these are great steps forward , demonstrating that , despite brainwashing and complicity in many serbs in milosevic ’s regime ’s crimes , democracy and open societies have a chance of taking root in what remains of yugoslavia . one key decision facing serbia and its new organs is whether milosevic should be extradited to the hague .
as political pressure for central banks , including the ecb , increases , its president must not shy away at criticizing european politicians , and , if necessary , publicly name and shame . the ecb ’s independence is its most valuable asset – indeed , indispensible . a good central banker must say no to politicians . this does not mean that the ecb ’s president should pick fights whenever possible . on the contrary , he should be able to build support for the ecb ’s independence .
greece could , in principle , count heavily on its regional development aid from the european budget , underutilized owing to a dearth of local co-funding . it took so long last summer to recognize – and even then only to a modest degree – that this aid could be used to encourage economic recovery . europe ’s final error was a certain degree of indifference for equitable burden-sharing . it is understandable that the imf , technocratic institution , does not venture beyond macroeconomics . but the eu is a political entity that has made social justice one of its fundamental goals .
brussels – the consequences of the debt crisis in europe are all too present across much of europe , as distressed economies try to stabilize and grow simultaneously . yet , notwithstanding the important decisions that have been made over the last several years , the reality is that we have more to do to meet the challenges that europe faces . reform and consolidation are being taken up throughout the eu . joint financial backstopping have been introduced . and the european central bank has consistently demonstrated that it will stand by europe .
but the rise of interactive social networking has produced bottom-up financial innovation . millions of bank customers using mobile phones can provide instant feedback on which products and services they like or dislike . in a future client-service sector , and transaction-management systems will receive more input from customers , thereby enabling product design to be mutually actively shaped . the current strategy in the financial sector is driving excessive competition by increasing market share at rivals ’s expense , often breaking trust with customers for short-term gains . yet the financial sector has , in previous eras , proved to operate as the public good , by providing trustworthy , efficient service .
so unraveling multi-national states is a false path . the road forward lies in democratic forms of federalism , capable of maintaining sufficient central authority in the form of statehood while respecting local and regional cultures . today ’s upsurge of micro-nationalism is not only the consequence of the revolt against empires : it is also a revolt against globalization . there is widespread opposition to the idea that modern nation-states ’ chief function is to splenty their peoples into a global market dominated by efficiency-enhancing imperatives and cheapness , heedless damage to non-economic activities . this feeling is reinforced when the global economy turns out to be a global casino .
still , it is correct to ask whether the american way of life will survive the twenty-first century ; if it does , whether it will survive in america or migrate elsewhere as america ’s economy and political system collapses under its accumulated weight over decades of myopic national leadership and squandered the opportunities . indeed , chinese president hu jintao ’s recent trip to washington came to light in many – particularly many chinese – as passing the torch . pessimists have been saying this for much too long . optimists touting gdp and other indicators will continue to insist that americans have never had that good , either . if there is some continuity worth underscoring , it is the regular cohabitation of boosterism with declinism : america ’s glass is always about half full and half-empty .
but even as such uncertainties play out , both countries engage in what is like a zero-sum transfer of emotions that can impossible to ignore . in the past , traveling to london from paris , one could easily sense the two cities ’ difference . london was bursting by dynamism and proud to assert itself the world capital of multiculturalism . paris , though undoubtedly more beautiful , was in peril of being the new rome , the prisoner of its past glory , at best , to visit . today , trust has sucked from britain through social and political upheaval , terrorism , and uncertainty about the country ’s future .
these speculative investments can further reinforce this trend , pushing futures prices further away from market equilibrium , especially if a number of investors follow suit or those who make sufficient funds to intervene in a market . index funds provide an example of such powerful investors . they have become key market players , holding around 25-35 % of the value contracts on all farmland . beyond investing large amounts of money , they hold futures contracts for a long time , which perhaps will make them less likely to react to changes in market fundamentals . empirical evidence yields no obvious answer concerning which hypothesis gets right .
never before have partisan politics been heavily involved , but these are not normal times . president george w. bush is endangering the united states and global security , while undermining american values . i have been demonized by bush for opposing him in 2000 . president bush fled his platform promising a “ humble ” foreign policy . if re-elected , bush ’s doctrine of preemptive action – and the invasion of iraq – will be endorsed , and the whole world will have to live with the consequences .
balkan wars of the 1990 ’s ravaged not only millions of people , but also the social institutions that gave shape to the lives of their lives . indeed , the changes brought about by yugoslavia ’s dissolution , and the wars of succession that followed annihilate much of serbia ’s traditional education and training regimes , croatia , bosnia , macedonia and kosovo , respectively . since then , stability and hope have begun returning to a region affected by the destruction of war and widespread desperation for social displacement . the balkan stability pact of 1999 , as well as the massive international support pact ( balkan governments ) , has helped rebuild local education , while developing innovative vocational training and training systems that should boost long-term employment . the results of many projects in such countries are encouraging , with current targeting of training crucial groups , such as entrepreneurs , teachers , and youth and unemployed .
thus , two important steps have been taken : one by iran ’s people , who have shown that they understand the challenges they face and others by their new president , who assembled the best team to commit an enormously difficult program . there is an expression in iran that applies to the international community : “ you can awaken only someone who ’s sleepwalk , not someone pretending to be asleep . ” whether iran ’s international interlocutors act on the significance of rouhani ’s election is a matter of choice , instead of ignorance . in the middle east so full of uncertainty , a more predictable iran – one that behaves like a regionally vital state , not a destabilizing shia movement whose ambitions far exceed what international law permits – would have in everyone ’s interest . there can be no route from agony in the middle east , without participation , commitment , and determination by all parties .
nairobi – with unemployment soaring , bankruptcies climbing , and stock markets in free-fall , it may at first glance look sensible to ditch the fight against climate change and put environmental investment on hold . but this would be a devastating mistake of immediate , as with inter-generational , proportions . far from burdening already stressed , over-stretched global economies , environmental investment is exactly what is needed to get people back to work , get books flowing , and assist in powering economies to health . in the past , environmental concerns were perceived as a luxury ; today , it is a necessity – an insight that is understood by some but by little means all , economic architects yet . a huge slice of president barack obama ’s $ 825 billion stimulus package for the united states includes a boost to renewable energy , “ weatherizing ” a million homes and upgrading the country ’s inefficient electricity grid .
perhaps all of us could be happy to work fewer hours when the slump reflected gradual societal progress . but we are not happy with unemployment that results from a sudden fiscal crisis . that is why a sudden austerity can not be a morale builder , either . for morale , we need a social compact that finds purpose for everyone , a way of presenting oneself as part of society by being an employee of some sort . and , for that , we need fiscal stimulus – ideally , the debt-friendly stimulus that raises taxes and expenditures equally .
that federal legislation enacted in june 2016 also established oversight boards with an institution for the american commonwealth . the restructuring process began on may 3 , when a board made the petition at the federal court . but many crucial decisions have been made so far , such as how much overall debt relief will be provided , and how a “ haircut ” will be split among holders of different kinds of bonds . such decisions will determine which policies are feasible to boost puerto rico ’s economic prospects – and thus how much it can bail out its creditors . at the heart of any effort to resolve the debt crisis must be the understanding that just as today ’s debt-restructuring affects puerto rico ’s future growth , puerto rico ’s future growth will affect how much debt restructuring is needed .
with goodwill on all sides , genuine advantages can materialize from building this informal grouping , as it is the gateway to southeast asia ’s giant markets and northeast asia . an economic bonus of such an effort for the entire region would be emerging from opening up direct flights and maritime shipping across the taiwan strait . ceagpol might even become a building block for northeast asian version of asean ( eagpol ) – the “ association of northeast asian nations . ” as a consequence of historical suspicion among china , japan , and korea , northeast asia ’s economic heavyweights are the world ’s last remaining regional bloc that still lacks the inter-governmental organization of asean ’s likes . the european union is even more instructive because centuries of war culminating in the two world wars of the twentieth century , inspired rather than deterred , european economically , political , and security integration .
even in europe and the united states , higher levels of jobs typically earn a lot fewer than individuals with comparable skills and private-sector responsibilities . in all the nations , a great number of government officials are devoted to public and absolutely honest but low-paying people attract some rotten apples who are willing to raise their incomes through accepting bribes and engaging in other corrupt practices . even some honest officials may become disillusioned , giving up many temptations to use illegal means so as to raise their incomes to levels that they view as more appropriate to their responsibilities and training . many years ago , the late economist george stigler and i published an article proposing a way to cut malfeasance among the government ’s employees . we proposed , among other things , that officials in vulnerable - and important posts receive higher salaries than comparable workers get on the private sector .
london – russia ’s invasion of ukraine and annexation of crimea has undermined global security and dominated headlines . but the current rules-based international system , decades of making , remains most seriously threatened by syria ’s civil war . not only are millions of lives at risk ; the global framework of human-rights and humanitarian law is on trial as well . now these risks are being overshadowed by ukraine ’s crisis , with confrontation at the united nations security council threatening to subordinate syria in the pecking order of international problems . on last month ’s third anniversary , the eruption of protests in damascus and other syrian cities , people around the world mobilized in street vigils and online as part of the “ with syria ” campaign .
this is true of its financial parameters too . public and private contributions are combined in many ways , and even more so . to be sure , there is an additional feature that many higher educational institutions have endowments that they can use to balance inequities in the process . it will take some time to build up such endowments in europe and elsewhere . even so , the principle is surely right : universities must be set free .
but , rather than picking the facts and stories to fit some grand narrative of decline or progress , one should attempt to compare across all areas of human existence to see if the world is actually doing better or worse . together , with 21 of the world ’s top economists , i have tried to do just that , developing a scorecard covering 150 years . across ten areas – including health , education , war , gender , air pollution , climate change , and biodiversity – economists have all answered an equally straightforward question : what accounts for the relative costs of the problem every year since 1900 , all the way to 2013 , with predictions to 2050 . by using classic economic valuations of all everything from lost lives , poor health , and illiteracy to wetlands destruction and increasing hurricane damage from global warming , economists show how much each problem costs . to estimate the magnitude of the issue , compared to the total resources available to fix it .
clearly , investment in food production must be increased in the medium and longer term . yet there is a policy prescription available to leaders today that could help remove supply-side impediments : more trade . this proposal can puzzle some but the logic is straightforward and irrefutable . trade is transmission strip through which supply adjusts to demand . it allows food to travel from land to little more .
but the republicans ’ proposed tax reform represents a bigger gift to corporations and the ultra-rich than most had anticipated . avoiding necessary reform and leaving the country mountain of debt out of reach ; the consequences – low investment , stalled productivity growth , and yawning inequality – would take a decade to undo . trump assumed office promising to “ drain the swamp ” in washington , dc . the eu has grown wider and deeper , as it did in the past . with the republicans ’ proposed tax reform , it risks engulf america ’s economy .
yet finance can fail in many ways ; the collapse of lehman is only one . if this cycle is even some right , regulatory fatigue from struggling to make finance safer will soon turn into the type of regulatory confidence that prevailed last war has now prevailed . in a robust economy , finance will look stronger and existing regulation is likely to become effective . common for people to update their outlook with what they have seen last ; if what they saw last is a strong economy and a stable financial system , they will conclude that they have stabilized the system . the fed ’s 2008 transcripts reveal that its leaders see such a world as such .
but with the psychotic label already affixed up to their files whatever one might have assumed to be a symptom of their insanity . at best , they would be declared “ in remission . ” rosenhan ’s experiment suggests that questions about trump ’s mental health might never have gone away , no matter what steps he takes to change his detractors ’ minds . even if he stops ranting on twitter or speaking in convoluted and incoherent sentences , at best he is viewed as being “ in remission . ” modern psychiatrists would argue that they have taken to heart the lesson of rosenhan experiment , and now make diagnoses far more cautiously and rigorously .
boston – the resurgence of nativism and xenophobia in countries around the world has created a toxic environment for those fleeing geopolitical crises . but among the many challenges refugees must confront , while waiting for resettlement , finding access to higher-quality physical and mental-health tops the list . there is a challenge that demands more attention not just from doctors , nurses , non-governmental organizations , and other relevant actors ; but from engineers , who can make indispensable contributions to global public health , and the world ’s public health . such contributions are highly relevant to refugees . beyond building bridges and creating gadgets , engineers can help improve the quality and affordability of health care around the world , through the development of faster methods to diagnosing diseases and supplying medical services .
over the past 30 years , the prevailing ip regime has erected more barriers to knowledge use , often fueling the gap between social returns to innovation and private returns to widen . powerful advanced-economy lobbies that have shaped such regimes unambiguously put the latter first , reflected their opposition to provisions acknowledging intellectual property rights , associated with traditional knowledge or biodiversity . widespread adoption of today ’s stringent ip protection is historically unprecedented as well . even among early industrializers , ip protection has come very late and has often been deliberately eschewed to allow quicker industrialization and growth . the existing ip regime , indeed , is not sustainable .
during this era , the dollar strongly appreciated against major currencies and was overvalued by virtually every measure by 1985 . throughout this period , the bundesbank sold $ 1c in order to curb the dollar ’s appreciation ( figure 1c ) , but the fed has not intervened at all ( figure 1b ) . despite the advent of the european central bank , that asymmetry continues : while the ecb repeatedly tried to break up the dollar ’s appreciation in 2000-2001 through consecutive interventions in the foreign exchange market , the fed has intervened only once again . that has confirmed america ’s interest to maintain a strong dollar . so long as these interests diverge , it is expected that there is little coordination between us central banks ’ foreign exchange policy .
in the upcoming g8 meetings ( the world club of rich industrial countries plus russia ) , four members – germany , france , italy , france , and the uk – would participate individually in both the eu and , like those of the european union , whose president , too , attends to represent the eu as a whole . but should the eu have only one representative ? regardless of whether those meetings have become productive , unitary eu participation would be the supreme symbolic value of the eu : it would confirm a shared european stance in international relations and the international economic policy . the main argument in favor of such a change is that joint participation by the eu would increase europe ’s weight in international relations , particularly vis-à-vis those of the us . after all , a key cause of the first place for european integration was precisely to provide a more powerful voice for europe at the international arena .
the idea behind the slippery slope is that if you do x , acceptable , you end up doing y that is not . indeed , two kinds of slippery slope – logical and sociological – exist . on the logical slippery slope , you slide toward the bottom in embracing morally unacceptable behavior , because there is no way to distinguish it from the acceptable practice . you may slide down the sociological slippery slope from one practice to another - though the two are conceptually different -- just because the existence of one creates another 's socio-climate receptive . therapeutic cloning is conceptually distinct from reproductive cloning .
soon , devaluation in a nearby country reveals how vulnerable the economy is to a loss of international confidence . suddenly , foreign lenders suppress short-term credit lines , and the government is not forced to hold its own currency . the central bank tries to keep the exchange rate down but is eventually forced to let the currency float . the result is currency collapse and bankruptcies . the economy is confronting its most severe economic recession in many decades , and a recession has become more frequent .
the world might not back up supporting the us in its unilateral attempt to become global policeman , especially because they may well bring more instability . nonetheless , it is important to see why the american government is undertaking them , responding to a heart problem of today 's international order . if russia and the other countries that opposed america 's iraq policy on the security council really were keen to persuade the american people not to attack iraq and the defense of international law , it was a naive policy doomed to failure . looking at preserving the un security council and position of current permanent members , however , those actions were more likely to produce the opposite effect . similarly , rearguard efforts to show that those who opposed war in iraq were right and that american and britons wrong to make a case , coupled with demands for `` proof '' that iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction are unconstructive and only provoke mutual irritation .
some 8,000 refugees per day – modern day volkerwanderung – are entering germany , thanks partly to harsh conditions returning home , and partly to germany ’s willingness to take them . the challenge of caring , employing , and integrating such figures would soon run against the limits of physical capacity , financial resources , and public tolerance . it is already clear that the eu ’s public policy can not succeed if it is focused on consequence rather than causes , the refugee crisis . the changes that would have the most positive impact would be the emergence of a new government in damascus that is acceptable to the bulk of the syrian people ( and a satisfactory partner for the united states and europe ) . unfortunately , this seems likely to come about only with a blessing in russia and iran , both of which appear more inclined to increase their support for president bashar al-assad than to work for removal .
israel also joined nato ’s naval control system in the mediterranean , contributing to operation active endeavor by joining nato forces in patrolling the mediterranean . both sides seem eager to expand the scope of its partnership , with the goal of reaching a level of interoperability . more recently , anticipating a hypothetical confrontation with iran , a major military maneuver – a us military maneuver – was carried out to test israel ’s integration into american ballistic missile defenses . american sources described drill as “ the most complete us air missile defense system ever did anywhere in the world . ” it was a major contribution , said to developments of the planned nato missile shield for europe .
it is difficult to see how girls could be returned safely . launching a operation of military relief would be very risky . girls , it is believed , split into separate groups to prevent any attempt to save one group imperils the others . despite talk about the government negotiations with the captors , that choice would be fraught with danger . even if every girls finally come home , nothing will be once again on the table for them , or for their families .
the country played by the “ rules ” of financial markets and managed to finalize debt restructuring quickly ; but the agreement was an evil one , and failed to help the economy recover . greece is in desperate need of a new restructuring three years later , three years later . distressed debtors need fresh start . excessive sanctions induce negative-sum games , in which the debtor can not recover , and creditors do not profit from the larger repayment capacity that recovery entails . the absence of the rule of law to bring about debt restructuring delays fresh starts , and can lead to chaos .
we would expect to see large illnesses among workers and patients in hospitals where the victims are treated and will soon be someone ( perhaps even non-ill ) , which is what would be disseminated to ankara , istanbul , tbilisi , damascus , baghdad , and beyond . anti-flu drugs like tamiflu and relenza are extremely expensive , and in short supply . history suggests that if we were to turn these drugs into affordable medicines to poor countries for ring the “ covenlaxis , ” they would often be administered improperly – such as sub-optimal doses – in ways that foster viral resistance , and just intensify a pandemic . or perhaps they would be sold on the black market to enrich corrupt government officials . a politically incorrect but rational strategy would be to rich countries devote the resources they need to developing countries mainly for surveillance .
the best solution is to make western labor markets flexible by opening up the eu system to collective wage bargaining , dismantling labor-market regulation , and reforming the welfare state . if workfare replaces welfare , wages will become more flexible in allowing eu labor markets to absorb immigrants more effectively . but , while these remedies are implemented , the social gains can artificially boost the incentive to migrate . if immigrants acquire welfare benefits in addition to wages , more will be lured to come up rather than necessary , and marginal migrants would create welfare losses for an eu equal advantage . given that migrants usually enter into countries that redistribute resources from above-average to below-average incomes , such benefits are probably even as migrants work and pay taxes and social-security contributions .
palestinian president mahmoud abbas has made no secret of his objection to such an strategy . but , with their government unable to do anything about expansion of israeli settlements , including in east jerusalem , as well as continued conflicts over the holy sites in hebron , bethlehem , and the al-aksa mosque of gaza , the west bank ’s palestinians are extremely frustrated . recent street demonstrations could easily turn into an outbreak of continuing israeli resistance into israeli rule . the palestinian authority , which runs the west bank , worries that a popular , non-violent intifada might quickly turn violent . if so , israel might use it as a pretext to crush the palestinians and their newly constructed institutions .
li must ensure that china ’s economy , which still boasts significant growth potential , does not sink into lethargy and falls into the so-called “ middle-income trap . ” a developing economy can slow prematurely when external factors change the conditions that promote growth . wages continue to rise , declining competitiveness over lower-income economies , but the growth model remains unequipped to support competitiveness in high-skill industries , leading to stagnation . to avoid such an outcome , li must tailor china ’s growth model to current conditions , including intensifying trade friction with the european union and the united states , greater pressure to allow the renminbi to appreciate , an aging population , a decelerating urbanization , and a rising labor cost . the “ new normal , ” which emerged from the global financial crisis , characterized by sluggish gdp growth and reduced western import demand , makes reform even more urgent .
but , after nine years of conservative rule , moon would be unable to swoop simply to reform his agenda . in fact , with his democratic party holding just 40 million seats in the national assembly , he will have to win support from centrist parties , and even conservative opposition . moreover , he will need broader public support . to succeed , moon will have to revisit carefully the effectiveness and feasibility of his campaign promises , identify the most promising measures , and avoid the most glaring pitfalls of his own . when it comes to public-sector job creation , for example , the central problem facing the challenge of considering is the long-term financial-burden that such large-scale hiring could create .
commercial cable television programs aimed at children are replete with advertising for processed foods of dubious value to human health . and , for any celebrity donates time for fighting obesity , there are a dozen accepting large payment to hawk products , like ultra-sugary drinks , that arguably tobacco is a generation from now . it is hard for non-profits to compete against the production values embodied in aboncé ’s pepsi commercial , or taylor swift ’s diet coke commercial . the causes of obesity are complex , and science about understanding the human behavior of human beings is embryonic ; but it is not hyperbole to call the problem an epidemic . according to the centers for disease control and prevention , roughly 18 % of children aged 6-11 in the us are not just overweight , but obese .
today , however , america is on the back foot , economically and militarily , and militarily . new powers like china and india are rising , not risen , mixing assertiveness with an emphasis on their continued “ developing ” status . europe , where shared sovereignty has been embraced , is struggling to resolve its own problems , never mind becoming the global player . so nobody is in charge . this is all the more problematic at a time when nation-states and peoples are more intertwined than ever before , as ideas , information , finance , migrants , and problems flow ever more seamlessly across borders .
and per capita gdp certainly must be preferable to aggregate gdp . no doubt , the recovery in the uk has begun more slowly than in other g7 economies , with the exception of italy . but there is also no doubt that the uk ’s recovery has picked pace after 2012 . in fact , its gdp growth rate last year was the highest in the g-7 . according to the imf , only the american economy would grow faster over the next four years , with the uk then regaining its lead .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . in 1802 , america ’s third president , thomas jefferson , wrote that “ religion is a matter that lies solely between man and his god . ” offer assurances to a bunch of connecticut christtists who feared their religious liberty for their children , he pointed to the first amendment ’s establishment clauses and free exercises clause that erected “ the wall of separation between church & state . ”
i ’ve personally spoken with over 50 foreign leaders , all agree that only by coordinating our actions can we halt the devastation of ebola spread in west africa and stop ebola ’s spread . but we are making progress on both questions , but much work remains . bringing together countries of competing interests and varying resources is hard work . it demands intense diplomatic engagement , and calls upon relationships built and sustained over the next decades as well as alliances with new partners . but , by overcoming disparities and coordinating an attempt to defeat the islamic state and conquer ebola , we are reinforcing the support of a global order grounded in collective solutions to common problems .
consider the example of a subsidiary of the american firm , which earns profits in ireland . that subsidiary paid the iranian corporate tax at ireland ’s low 12 % rate . it is then free for investing the after-tax profits in ireland , in financial securities , or operating companies anywhere in the world – other than the united states . if a foreign subsidiary ’s parent company brings after-tax profits back to the american government to invest or distribute to its shareholders , it must pay the current american corporate tax rate to 35 % to its initial pretax irish profits , with credit accounting for 12 % that it already paid . because of this 23 % penalty for repatriation , us firms are generally choosing not to repatriate their foreign subsidiaries ’ profits .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
the trouble does not observe national borders , and thus require collective global action . but moving toward a carbon-neutral economy also also provides far-reaching opportunities for action . with the right strategy in place , europe can boost its own technological innovation and deploy carbon pricing and other fiscal policies to shield european labor markets from undercut by lower-cost manufacturing in china and elsewhere . moreover , through the european investment bank , the eu already has a tool to mobilize massive capital shops for infrastructure investments , investment in research and development , and other vital areas , including the us . and , as adam tooze has argued , by issuing green bonds and other “ safe assets , ” europeans can secure greater economic independence from other powers and start to establish the euro as global currency .
in part in response to the soviet collapse , india embraced single-reservation capitalism , which produced spectacular economic progress . and , like the economy , india ’s self-confidence boomed . india today sees the wider world , particularly the west , in terms of its increasing deference , not only for the performance of the country , but also of its essence – a young country , as well as ancient civilization . slightly above 60 years ago , india remained the crown jewel of the british empire . fifty years ago , if you sought to read about india in the west , you would mostly find books on spirituality in their history .
a careful analysis of merkel ’s words shows that she was not questioning the future of the transatlantic alliance . rather , she was calling for stronger europe . merkel recognizes that if the us sacrifices its place at the top of the international order for domestic political reasons , it will not be replaced by a new leading power , or by a new world order emerging . what we will have is a power vacuum marked by chaos . and as the world becomes less stable , we europeans will have little choice but to come together to defend our own interests .
the bottom line is that questions , like this , “ are we generating too much inequality ? ” can not even be asked in china . the upshot is that whenever the problem gets out , the turnaround comes too late , and it is dramatic . this is why china can not shelve the problem of its transition to democracy . democracy is not just an instrument to help avoid strategic mistakes . there is a more mundane reason why many , however , even within the us think that a democratic transition has become inevitable : the party is simply losing control of the country .
indeed , a number of intriguing practical moves in this direction are underway , albeit not all pursued through their founders ’ original regional course . the economic communities of western african states ( ecowas ) , for example , have unexpectedly demonstrated the willpower and the capacity to raise a fight force to intervene in regional conflicts such as the appalling civil war in sierra leone . less spectacularly , but perhaps more important in the long term , ecowas is is laying the groundwork for regional economic integration , with the creation of the single currency now a stated objective . in southern africa , the south african development community , following shaky start , is pushing ahead with the joint project , of which transport infrastructure , blight on much intra-african commerce , is a central theme . east african countries are also pushing ahead for integration projects , and they appear to have learned from past failures in a region that were the result of hastily constructed , unsuitable , and overly ambitious structures .
so where is this demand-fueled growth ? the european central bank ( ecb ) seems more interested in keeping interest rates high enough to force insolvent firms to bankruptcy than in spurring higher jobs . with private demand stalling , the employment commission wants the government to serve as the employer of last resort . but , indeed , the maastricht treaty ’s stability and growth pact limits fiscal deficits to 3 % of gdp – a ceiling that germany is already hitting . unless a future government is bold enough to break the pact of abandoning it , its only alternative will be to raise taxes , which would merely prolong the very contraction of private-sector demand that has kept unemployment high .
new york – in his remarkable apology to catholics in ireland ( most of that country ’s population ) , pope benedict xvi explained why he thought that sinful priests were tempted to commit sexual deeds with children . it was because of the “ new and serious challenges to the faith arising from the rapid transformation and secularization of irish society . fast-paced social change has occurred , often adversely affecting people ’s traditional adherence to catholic teaching and values . ” as we know it , childhood abuse by catholic priests has not only occurred in ireland , but also in many other countries , something that pope preferred not to dwell on . and iran is not the sole place where social transformation and secularization have challenged religious values .
last august , israelis allowed an additional seven battalions and 20 tanks in the zone . yet egyptian armed forces never brought to full numbers of additional soldiers , and did not even bother to transport tanks across the suez canal . egypt ’s approach toward sinai troop deployments reflects its conventional neglect of the peninsula . historically , it deployed only 70-80 % of the 22,000 soldiers that the treaty allowed in zone a. a. and the military never founded an established regional command in sinai , preferring to allow units temporarily stationed there to report to their superiors scattered globally around cairo and to its environs . egypt ’s new islamist leaders may want to restore “ full sovereignty ” over the peninsula , as president mohamed morsi ’s legal advisor mohamed fouad gadalla recently remarked . such saber-rattling comments vis-à-vis israel are currently popular .
their home page shows a smiling young manager based in chile , and companies push to enlist women in palestinian territories – not ideological reasons , but because there are so many talented programmers there to hire . “ thirty percent of women in many countries in the middle east have university degrees , ” zaleski explains , but they often can not get jobs commensurate with their training for cultural causes . with powertofly ’s technological prowess transcend cultural barriers , a woman can contribute in the highest ranks to an american company – even if there are local laws prohibiting her from driving the car in the us . not surprisingly , given such a model , many men are willing to take part , as do their founders . the founders ultimately do n’t rule out expanding in order to address that need .
so here are ten good reasons to believe in europe – ten rational arguments to persuade pessimistic analysts , and worry investors alike that it ’s highly premature to bury both the euro and the eu altogether . the first reason to hope here is that statesmanship is returning to europe even when , as in homeopathic doses , it is back on the ground . that is too early to predict the impact of françois hollande ’s election as france ’s president . but , in italy , one man , mario monti , is already making the difference . to be sure , no one elected monti is brittle and already contested , but there is a positive near-consensus that has enabled him to initiate long-overdue structural reforms .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation today . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
many of these choices turned out badly , largely because the information technology ( computers and how it is used ) eliminated many of the middle class . increasing trade globalization also has not helped this . furthermore , as till von wachter of columbia university documented , the prolonged era of high unemployment for parents has severe and lasting negative effects on their children . children whose families are unable to provide a decent , life-deserve start . but america has n’t given the us this – a point recently made by jeb bush , a leading contender in the republican presidential nomination in 2016 , to the polls .
in most european countries , action to spur private-sector investment in local service and transport – both big sectors , for example – should also be regarded . but governments need to understand the barriers to investment : regulatory failures ; weak enablers , including financial and human capital ; poor infrastructure ; and substandard technologies . and they need to undertake rigorous cost-benefit analyses so that any intervention translates into private investment that promotes productivity growth . here , too , is – in the level of execution – that governments often perform poorly . too often , they spend money to support private-sector projects that fail to yield positive returns for a greater economy .
here , too , is where the link between food and climate change comes in : because people climb out of poverty – as many people do – it demands more flesh and dairy demand . this trend has grave consequences for agriculture ’s ecological footprint . animals consume more food than they manufacture . cows release huge volumes of heat-trapping methane ; they can only reduce their consumption and feed more food . and clearing land for pasture releases carbon dioxide at a staggering rate .
the african development bank ( afdb ) , the presidency of which i currently seek , has a far more expansive mandate . but all of these institutions share the overarching goal : lifting the people out of poverty and fostering sustainable development . leaders of these organizations must make complicated choices in allocating their finite resources to their resources . for example , they must strike a balance between poverty and hunger against efforts to improve gender equality , increase access to education , or tackle corruption . having served as sierra leone ’s finance minister , the central bank governor and now foreign minister , i have been working with international organizations to manage these competing priorities as i oversaw the economic revitalization of my own post-conflict state .
berlin – europe ’s established left faces the threat of extinction . in less than two years , social-democratic parties in the continent have suffered historic losses in france , the netherlands , germany , and italy . on a continent long defined by the democratic contest between center-right and center-left parties , a collapse of the left could have far-reaching consequences , beyond special party interests . the left ’s decline , including the dissolution of the traditional working class , is many factors underlie this decline . but one important reason is just as grim as it is simple : european voters have increasingly opposed immigration and trust the left , in the face of a limit on it .
the us is expected to become energy self-sufficient by 2020 , making its oil exporter an oil exporter by 2030 . that scenario would grant the american economy three enormous advantages . it would enhance america ’s economic competitiveness , especially relative to europe , given the lower costs involved in extracting shale gas . it would also reduce america ’s exposure to increasing unrest in the arab world . finally , it would increase the relative vulnerability of america ’s main strategic rival , a rising china that is becoming increasingly dependent on middle east energy supplies .
the gap in between their objective analysis of reality and policies in governments has become a chasm . in most western countries , for example , economists have long known how to widen the divide with respect to incomes and other indicators between some affluent cities – who benefit from globalization – and much of the rest of the country . yet not until french president emmanuel macron ’s administration did a national leader enact tax cuts based on where the country lives . as a result , 1 % of france ’s gdp is now reallocated first to the poorest parts of the country . traditional parties could also learn something from listening to voters directly , rather than simply via the filters of media and pollsters .
how many lives is , in some ways , worth ? suppose that the experience of visiting or recalling notre dame makes humans about twice as happy as they would otherwise be over that period , which implies , in effect , extra hours spent in notre dame or recalling one ’s visit , is just as good as extending someone ’s life through the hour . suppose that we ’re saving people ’s lives over a century who lives 60 years , the $ 9,000 per year benefit is equivalent in saving 150 lives per year . that ’s a significant number of lives , but now we must ask how many lives € 1 billion ( $ 0.0.1 billion ) could save . whatever the gilets jaines can advocate , it is obvious that we could save more lives and reduce more economic hardship , by helping people in extreme poverty in lower-income countries than we would be able to spend it in france .
in effect , some view germany ’s renewed commitment to reducing its carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 , as a battering ram against the schwarze null agreement . on september 20 , germany ’s government announced $ 54 billion ( $ 59.4 billion ) in spending steps to cut emissions , as well in germany . in the us , such a package would be called the green new deal . spending on priorities like electricity and the environment could well be helpful . but getting serious about co2 emissions , and other environmental goals , does not have to mean larger budget deficits .
any economist who appears to question the benefits of trade openness risk banishment , so let me be unequivocal : i do not question the standard version of gains-from-trade theory , but extravagant , unwarranted claims have made about the impact of openness in the first place . for the latter endangers broad public acceptance of the true article for its citizens , because they are set to demand that expectations are unlikely to be fulfilled . in the real world , opening up is no simple matter how to revise tariff codes , as well as removing barriers to foreign investment . it demands a heavy dose of institutional reform that consumes finance , bureaucratic and political resources . while many institutional reforms are development-friendly , they may not be targeted at core developmental goals – growth , improved governance , industrial and technological capability , poverty alleviation - and occasionally divert attention from it .
but , as the examples cited above reveal , the sea levels are not reliably meeting its purpose . this is because , as it stands , tech specialists typically conduct sea levels at the behest of project developers – a practice that , as activists have repeatedly pointed out , is grossly unethical . with the citations frequently basing their findings on only superficial appraisal of the ecological and market value of affected ecosystems , it should be little wonder that damaging projects are often approved , despite failing to adhere to broadly agreed guidelines for green development . to play an effective role in protecting the planet and its people , the seas will have to be robust , credible , and transparent . that means they must be conducted by well-regulated , impartial professionals .
but there are signs that these assumptions are now being challenged . prior to the crisis , regulatory bodies mainly focused on removing trade barriers , and generally favored measures that made markets more complete by fostering faster , cheaper trading of a broader variety of financial claims . that is no longer the case . on the contrary , nowadays , many are questioning the assumption that greater market efficiency is always and everywhere the public good . might such ease and efficiency not fuel market instability , and serve intermediaries ’ interests rather than their client states ?
following arduous international protests over chen ’s abduction , the fpc decided to investigate . xinhua announced that local officials responsible for violence might be prosecuted . central authorities seemed like an immediate need to quell criticism of its controversial population-monitoring efforts . and xinhua wasted no timing on claiming that abuses had been restricted to a handful of towns . nevertheless , central government institutions did little to stop the intimidation of linyi villagers .
tighter american monetary policy could amplify the global credit shortfall , increasing pressure on asia ’s economic and financial systems . overreaction and herding market participants ’ behavior might trigger a sudden reversal of capital inflows , with severe dollar shortage – as occurred in 1997 and 2008 – straining asian banks and corporations . such risks explain why the fed ’s mere suggestion that it would move toward easing its purchases of long-term assets ( so-called quantitative easing ) caused emerging-market currencies and asset prices to plummet later this summer . they also underscore asian economies ’ need for stronger financial safety nets . the 2008 global financial crisis exposed fundamental flaws in the international monetary system , because the us failure to ensure sufficient liquidity weighed heavily on emerging asian economies .
for many russians , if not most , the figure of authority embodies powers that control everything that matters in life ; they support him , regardless of policies that he implements , because there is no option for doing otherwise . this partly explains enduring popular dedication to rulers such as joseph stalin . the question today is not the outcome of next year ’s presidential elections ; it already has been determined . with a presidential term now extended to six years , one can expect to encore lasting up to 12 years – longer than putin ’s initial performance . but now the delusional and ignorant are willing to believe that putin will become a reformer this time around .
the old regime ’s adherents can more easily trick newcomers into dangerous compromises if the process is extremely fast . the other major shortcoming was that yushchenko , the leader of the orange revolution , turned out to be feckless and irresponsible president . initially , he traveled the world for months to celebrate his victory , ignoring mayhem back home . afterwards , he began vetoing virtually all decisions by the government , causing political stalemate and , to end his presidency , tacitly allied itself with the old guard ( now back in power ) against then-prime minister yuliya tymoshenko ( whose party , to its credit , has voted against the constitution ) . but , while yushchenko serves as a warning to russians not to elect an accidental president with overt powers , the underlying cause of orange rule was that most of his ministers ( yushchenko appointees ) were defectors from the old regime .
indian-style socialism was a compound of nationalism , and with idealism . it embodied the conviction that goods and services vital to indians ’ economic well-being must remain in indian hands – rather than with indians seeking to profit from producing and selling such goods and services ; rather , it rested on the state ’s disinterested hands , the father and mother to all indians . because of this mindset , performance was not a relevant criterion for judging the public sector ’s utility . inefficiencies were masked by generous subsidies from national treasuries , as well as by a combination of vested interests – socialist ideologues , bureaucratic managers , trade unions , and monopolies – kept it beyond political criticism . the “ permit-quota ” culture of statist socialism allowed politicians and bureaucrats to exploit the public services as vehicles for private gratification , giving birth to an entrenched culture of corruption that still persists .
for organizations without clout – and digital revenues – of the times , people-oriented approach may also have to secure investment . with the ad-powered business model ’s limits becoming increasingly apparent , a growing number of media leaders – close to one-third according to an reuters institute survey – believe that , in the future , foundations and non-profit will play a central role in supporting media outlets . but persuading foundations and philanthropists to open hearts and wallets will require human connectivity and engagement , rather than algorithms or ai-enabled software . potential funders must be convinced that journalism is as noble a cause of the kind , say , cancer research . technology alone can not spur democracy , help to answer important questions , and make effective leadership easier by enhancing accountability .
with europe politically and geographically split , italy ’s politics could tip the balance . a pro-eu italy governed by an m5s-democrat coalition could rally together with france and germany to reform the eu ; regain a clear foreign-policy voice for the eu vis-à-vis the us , russia , and china ; and implement a green , innovation-based growth strategy . to forge such a coalition , m5s would have to embrace a responsible and clearly defined economic program , with the democrats forced to accept being the junior partner of untested insurgent power in the eu . a possible key to mutual confidence would be to hold the democrats to the crucial finance ministry , whereas m5s appoints prime minister . not surprisingly , us president donald trump ’s utterly reckless former adviser , stephen bannon , rushed to italy to encourage m5s and the league to form a coalition that he called the “ ultimate dream , ” because it would break the eu .
my statements were also motivated by problems of how capital punishment was imposed in india . the supreme court has declared that capital punishment should be applied only in the “ rarest ” cases . and , indeed , the country ’s latest three executions stemmed from terrorist offenses , which were threatened or taken a huge toll of lives . but the decision to impose capital punishment remains wildly subjective . indeed , whether the death penalty is meted depends on a number of variables , beginning with judicial and social biases .
and the average hourly wages of all workers on the private , non-farm payrolls posted an annual growth rate of 2.5 % on october , the largest since 2009 . as the fed slowly raises interest rates , those middle-class families holding hard-won savings at the bank will ultimately begin to recognize some of their deposits ’ return . the long-term effects should not be underestimated , given the help of compound saving . during the most recent tightening cycle from 2004 to 2006 , households ’ interest rates rose 29 % . while this time , the gains probably will be smaller and slower to arrive , owing to the fed ’s likely pace and scope for tightening , the interest rate paid to the saving rate will shift households ’ incomes in the right direction : up to now .
beijing – most western media have characterized china ’s recent 19th national congress ( cpc ) as playing a pure power , with chinese president xi jinping entrenching his position . but the accumulation of political capital in this case is a means to an end . for xi , that end is smooth transition into modernity , which cements the cpc ’s long term power and ensures his own legacy as china ’s most significant leader . xi knows that if it is for china to continue to thrive in a fast-changing world , he will need to manage deftly a major social and economic transition , while improving state governance even more fundamentally . and , to ensure xi ’s long survival , he needs to reform the state or party institutions ; indeed , political reform for xi has a prerequisite for economic reform .
another question is how much income should be channeled , and how transfers could be carried out in a country as large , sophisticated , and financially backward as nigeria . but , even with all the difficulty of corruption and inefficiency that no doubt plague its real implementation , our proposal superior to the status quo . after all , the terrible conditions today are the result of staggering levels of corruption and waste over the last 40 years . in a better sense , our design could fundamentally improve the quality of public institutions , and thus transform economics and politics in nigeria for decades to come . the time to act is now now .
financial markets ’ instability can create serious economic and social dislocations . the question itself poses : what should be done to maintain the stability of the financial system ? this can not be answered in an abstract , because each situation is different . financial markets are best understood as an historic process ; history never quite repeats itself . recent turmoil in asian markets raises difficult questions about currency pegs , asset bubbles , inadequate supervision of banking supervision , and the lack of financial information that can not go unnoticed .
screening travelers from affected regions may have prevented significant epidemics elsewhere . health officials worldwide should keep their vigilance , preparing for an option that restored control efforts are required if sars resurges . indeed , experience with sars in toronto , where cases escaped detection and led to another outbreak , stands as a warning against over-optimism regarding the seeming control of greater and geographically dispersed outbreaks in taiwan and mainland china . in fact , these epidemics may be eliminated entirely in months to come . but it is at least as likely that some transmission will persist , or that the virus will be reintroduced to human populations from animals .
the bush administration ’s recent decision to initiate a parallel anti-corruption process through the g-8 leaves the united states outside its premier international forum for addressing the transparency of resource earnings while unnecessarily reinventing the wheel in the process . nor have the us and britain used their power in iraq to advance transparency in the oil sector . let us hope that the new iraqi government does better . it is hard to see how democracy can take root if the country ’s most important source of income remains as veiled in secrecy as it was under saddam . the eiti still has a long way to go , but it is one of its most effective vehicles for reaching the global standard of disclosure and accountability .
there are more united nations resolutions devoted to human-rights abuses committed by israel than to abuses by all other countries combined . stories about israel focus almost exclusively on the palestinian conflict . joyce karam , the washington school boss of pan-arab newspapers al-hayat , believes that this is because , “ muslim slaughter or arab killing seems more acceptable than israel killing arabs . ” syrian , libyan , and yemenite casualties are faceless ; a lionization of incomparably fewer gazan casualties makes them unique . this is no saying that israel should be consoled with the macabre arithmetic of bloodshed .
even the imf now recognizes that capital market liberalization has delivered neither growth nor stability in many developing countries . yet , whether driven by narrow ideology or by responding to demands for special interests , the bush administration continues to demand an extreme form of such liberalization under its bilateral trade agreements . the second problem concerns the non-aligned intellectual-property provisions ( trips ) of the uruguay round of trade talks dictated by america ’s pharmaceutical and entertainment industries . such provisions restricted countries from making generic imitations on drugs , making many critically important medicines unaffordable in developing nations . headed by aids worries , activists around the world demanded that something is done .
now that the cap is coming to power , we will quickly reap the extraordinary effects of a new , durable global health dividend . we can expect to see the data coming to light in years indicating falling health-care costs and improved educational outcomes around the globe . meanwhile , governments will collaborate on additional measures to cut the environmental and climate impact of the global maritime trading system . such an effort is essential to achieving targets outlined in the paris climate agreement in 2015 . as matters stand , the shipping industry , ranked alongside the countries , is the world ’s sixth-largest greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emitter .
cambridge – the united states is famous for its ability to innovate . aspiring tax conservatives worldwide might thus be interested in learning four tricks which american politicians have commonly used when promising to cut taxes while simultaneously slashing their budget deficits . these are hard-headed promises to keep , for the simple reason that a budget deficit equals government spending minus fiscal revenue . but each of the four tricks was refined in the last three decades . indeed , they initially acquired their colorful names in the early years of ronald reagan ’s presidency : “ the magic asterisk , ” the “ rosy scenario , ” the laffer hypothesis , and the “ starve the beast ” scenario .
so , which is : are banks still at risk ? or has post-crisis regulatory reform been doing its job ? the 2008 financial crisis highlighted two dangerous features of today ’s financial system . first , governments bail out the largest banks , rather than letting them collapse and damage the economy . second , and worse still , being too big to fail helps big banks grow even bigger , because creditors and trading partners prefer to work with banks with an implicit guarantee of government .
while it can not be predicted until the arab spring , the alliance has shown its capacity for action wisely in libya , thereby improving its image in north africa . in chicago , nato will agree on a major political declaration that offers further support for the region on a condition that the region ’s countries are asking it . the participants in chicago will have important differences over these issues , and the outcome may not be ideal . but reinventing nato is a longstanding process , and will necessarily come in little steps . the alliance ’s main objective will have to be to make the steps that are taken forward .
argentina ’s new president-elect , mauricio macri , an engineer by training , is often described in the international press as “ center-right . ” but that label is n’t quite correct . in argentina , the left-right divide has blurred the policies of the “ headed perónist justicialist ” parties that privatized state-owned companies in the 1990s only to nationalize them later . moreover , a “ center-right ” often implies a “ conservative , ” and macri ’s victory will not “ conserve ” the status quo . macri is best described as a “ liberal ” – a european sense .
women with abnormal brca1 or brca2 gene run a lifetime risk of up to 85 % of developing breast cancer , and with the increased risk of developing ovarian cancer , roughly 55 % for women with brca1 and mutations of about 25 % of females with brca2 mutations . most recently , massive studies that analyzing the impact of single nucleotide variations in genomic dna have called single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) , the risk of breast cancer of epigenetic 1/brca2 mutation carriers , identify a so-called modifier snp that can either decrease or increase individual lifetime risk . we have also learned that only 20-40 % of the breast cancers that cluster within families come from brca1 or brca2 germline mutations – genetic alterations that present from birth in every body or can be transmitted to offspring . increased levels of breast cancer risk are also known to involve several inherited “ “ uyghmes , ” such as li-fraumeni syndrome , a condition that is further associated with childhood onset of multiple risk including soft
xi ’s government struggles to maintain domestic stability as it moves china away from labor-intensive , investment-heavy economic growth toward a model based on domestic consumption and services . the primacy of that domestic agenda implies that china ’s attempt to lead in global change will lack a clear vision and coherent strategy . a second problem stems from china ’s incomplete global stage transition . after prevailing in world war ii , the us immediately , and undoubtedly dominated the globe . as china , in seeking to take the lead on its next stage in economic globalization , enjoys no such geopolitical power and legitimacy .
our commitment to tackling climate change is based on an understanding of the enormous risks of health and costs arising from inaction . costa rica devotes significant resources to tackling problems like dengue fever and malaria , because our people remain our leading asset . and staying well below its 1.5 ° c limit will mean 3.3 million fewer dengue fever cases annually in latin america and the caribbean , fewer people at risk of malaria , and less food and poor nutrition caused by higher temperatures and increasingly unstable weather patterns . costa rica is proud to lead the world by placing this approach to practice . as a result , we are one of the few countries ready to exceed our commitments under the paris climate agreement .
promoting china ’s traditional civilization with strengthened spiritual ties is in the region . there is now genuine hope , then , that talks along these lines could succeed . yet there is significant obstacles to easing tensions : a proposed $ 6.5 billion sale by the united states to taiwan of 30 apache attack helicopters and 330 patriot missiles . china-us talks about defensive cooperation earlier stalled , owing to such arms negotiations . since restarted , they have sent olive branch to the obama administration by china ’s administration .
speaking at the european parliament in brussels in april 2017 , ceu president michael ignatieff could say , “ i have support in washington . i had support in berlin , i supported in budapest . now is the time to win some support in brussels . ” and ignatieff has received some kind of support , at least initially . in december 2017 , the european commission took hungary to the ecj ’s court of justice ( ecj ) over the government ’s so-called “ ceu law , ” which a university said was intended to impeach that country .
for example , most chinese doctors and patients have long regarded acupuncture as an effective stroke treatment , using it to improve motor , talk , and other functions that were destroyed . one survey showed that 66 % of chinese physicians use acupuncture routinely to treat stroke effects , with 63 % of physicians surveyed believing that it would be effective . some 36 % of chinese physicians think that acupuncture ’s effectiveness remains uncertain , perhaps because the scientific basis for it remains so novel . more recently , systematic scientific studies of acupuncture ’s effects on such treatments have begun . almost every trials on acupuncture as a treatment for stroke conducted within china have been positive .
even after years of quantitative easing ( qe ) and ultra-low interest rates , central bankers in the advanced economies – particularly in the eurozone – have remained undershooting their inflation-fighting targets . economists , in the same time , must question long-held assumptions about downward nominal wage rigidities , the artifact of 1960-70s , when organized labor became much stronger . clearly , the idea that workers will always resist cutting wages ( or hours of workers ) no longer applies . in fact , falling labor power may explain why the phillips curve no longer appears to hold true . but , more important , it could be the reason why measured productivity remains persistently weak .
yet no trade-off between inequality and growth must be traced back . governments can enhance growth by increasing inclusiveness . a country ’s most precious resource is its people . so , ensuring that all can live up to their potential requires education opportunities for all . a modern economy also requires risk-taking .
this haughty attitude is reflected in the jargon of “ consenting a patient ” – as though something was done to a patient , like drawing blood or administering the injection : dr. smith , please go consent from mr. jones . ” instead , consent should be viewed as a cherished patient possession , which he or she might choose to relinquish if presented with a sufficiently compelling case . consent should not be snatched away , like a train ticket held out for a conductor . the problem is compounded when consent is won just hours before a major operation , and months after the surgeon ’s latest consultations . this may lead patients to consent to the practices that they fail to understand – or want .
those with sought-after talent have more bargaining power ; it is better to manage their careers ; and to command higher wages . those without in-demand skills struggle to feel disposable . so far , this abundance of choices has discouraged societies from spending the resources to training their employees , who , after all , may soon decide to join a competitor . however , as talent shortages loom , the need to retain employees can tip back into equilibrium toward greater investment in professional development . employers providing learning opportunities will become a destination for talent .
similar to traditional military-command-and-control protocols , they derive power in numbers and could quickly react to a broad array of strikes . such a digital ecosystem strengthens checks and balances , reduces the possibility that failure and mitigating the effects of an incursion can occur . in such a scenario of future , a hollywood blockbuster might be about networks of computers fighting each other , while humans stand by . it would portray the broader idea of the “ singularity ” as a hypothetical turning point when an artificial surpasses the human being . fortunately , life remains far from imitating art .
on march 6 , i received six recommendations from the g20 member ’ “ science ence20 , ” created by g20 countries ’ national academies of science . to reduce threats to marine ecosystems and conserve marine environments , the final two recommendations urge the “ establishment of improved data-storage and management system that ensures open access by scientists globally , ” and the “ sharing of information that has been gained through exploration activities carried out under extensive and multinational collaborative efforts , to expedite a comprehensive understanding of the global ocean and its dynamics . ” it is precisely for this reason that we have to ensure dfft and turn data into public goods for scientists worldwide to address them . the g20 summit in osaka comes at the dawn of a new era – reiwa ( “ beautiful harmony ” ) – in japan . on april 30 , the world witnessed abdication by his majesty ’s emperor emeritus akihito ; the first abdication by a reigning emperor in 202 years .
by investing in “ smart ” and “ resilient ” urbanization planning , governments from bordeaux in france to curitiba in brazil reinforce their brand identities and luring talent , investing and businesses from around the world . the american-canadian author and city-activist jane jacobs famously remarked that cities are the true engines of national prosperity . cities are in a position to grow through innovation , trade , and exchange . and city services are often more visible than federal aid ; for example , they respond while traffic accidents , or natural disaster , are also being felt . to be sure , today ’s cities face many challenges .
the danger is not just that economic rivalry , protectionism , and trade constraints would jeopardize global prosperity ; it is that such developments would also risk triggering serious political confrontation . technological sovereignty would take the spot on trade and exchange , and corporations ’ nationality – even major transnational corporations – would be as important a business model to their own . still , it would have been a mistake to conclude that this entire conflict was brought on solely by trump , and his neo-nationalist agenda . two days after google announced its decision , new york times published a commentary by thomas friedman . friedman , the world ’s author , is flat , echoing many of trump ’s attacks on china ’s unfair trade practices . if that is where the previous ideological high priest of globalization now stands , china confronts not merely trump ’s america but his liberal america , just too .
in a small state setting , imposing dense web of controls is likely to lead to the loss of mobile factors of production , while in a big state , labor or capital flight is harder . on the international stage , large states attempt hard to force international rules , often building their domestic legitimacy on their claims to shape the larger world : they think in terms of what french thinkers call “ harnessing globalization . ” instead of accepting the international system roughly as it is , with all its imperfections , they think that they can use their weight for changing the world rules – in their favor . small states ’ nervousness and fear started to intensify roughly in 2000 . the new political realities were highlighted in the iraq war , with china ’s search for energy sources in the developing world as well , and russian assertiveness in foreign and domestic policies .
democratic legitimacy won a major battle over social legitimacy . this opens the way to even more and deeper reforms . a law restricting transportation strikes took effect on january 1 , and sarkozy plans to break the 35-hour workweek , if not indirectly . instead of repealing the law , overtime work is to be easy and relatively cheap to work together . he is also preparing to raise the retirement age from 61 to 61 from 60 .
with the exception of the united kingdom , the extreme free-market view has gained less traction in europe in recent decades than it has in the us ; nonetheless , the challenge of implementing eurozone financial reforms is actually more difficult . governments regard domestic banks as important buyers of us sovereign debt . the banks argue that more efficient regulation would restrict credit , slow the pace of economic recovery . as a result , authorities in germany and france ( like japan ) have consistently resisted rising capital requirements , despite widespread agreement that does , as part of effective re-regulation . their opposition has undermined international efforts to construct the more resilient system – and likely hamper efforts to place europe ’s economy at a sounder footing .
this reflects a fundamental clash between thatcherism and trumpism : the latter aims to sweep away the neoliberal consensus of unregulated markets , privatization , free trade , and immigration that comprised the former . but even if ideas are different , the tactics are the latter . to consolidate support , thatcher would take head-to-head with carefully singled enemies – from british miners to argentina ’s president general leopoldo galtieri , to the bureaucrats in brussels . similarly , as the hudson institute ’s craig kennedy recently reported to me , “ bannon wants to radicalize anti-trump liberals into struggles over the causes that alienate them from mainstream america . ” every time trump ’s opponents marching for women , muslims , or sexual minorities , they fortify trump ’s core support base .
young democracies may be brutal : their voters often are as unforgiving as their political opponents . the two weeks since taiwan 's disputed presidential election of march 20 - only the third such democratic vote in the country 's history - has tested this truism almost to the breaking point . taiwan 's young democracy must now cope with an balancing act that president chen shui-bian 's re-election thrust on it . while canvassing votes in his hometown in south taiwan on the eve of the election , president chen and vice president annette lu lu lu both wounded the assassassin 's bullet . sympathy this has been secured to give the president his razor-thin margin of victory -- with only 50.1 % of the votes -- over lien chan , the kuomintang party ’s candidate and the people ’s first party ( kmmt-pfp ) coalition .
for this respect , the current effort to prop up the syrian government counts as twofer . but boosting russian living standards remains central to putin ’s grip on power , and his long-term legacy . even before intervening in ukraine , putin has not been able to deliver on his grand promise , made in 2003 to double the size of russia ’s economy within a decade . in terms of nominal per capita gdp , russia still fares little better than mexico ’s . signing efforts to diversify and modernize the economy failed , because disruptive technologies and business strategies can not be decreed from the very top .
cambridge – greek prime minister alexis tsipras has his chance to become his country what south korean president kim dae-jung and brazilian president luiz inácio lula da silva were to theirs : a man of the left who moves toward fiscal responsibility and freer markets . like tsipras , both were reelected amid economic crisis . both immediately confronted international financial constraints with the opposition politicians ’ ability to ignore . on assuming power , kim and lula were adept at adjusting , politically and mentally , to the new realities confronting them , launching much-needed reforms . some of these reforms were “ conservative ” ( or “ neo-liberal ” ) , and perhaps were impossible beneath the right politicians .
annual economic growth in the state averaged more than 10 % , from 2006 to 2012 , when gujarati city of ahmedabad short-listed lee kuan yew , the world bank ’s main urban prize . but history haunts modi ’s crusade – namely , the deaths of more than 1,000 people in anti-muslim riots in gujarat between 2002 and 2002 . although the supreme court purged him of all personal wrongdoing , the legacy of tragedy persists , making it all the more difficult for modi ’s victory of muslim votes without alienating his hindu nationalist base . this has not kept modi from accepting political risks , beginning with his assertion that india needs toilets more than temples . but his decision to run for prime minister is by far his riskiest move , because it will test his national appeal .
xi ’s anti-corruption campaign ca n’t overcome such resistance ; instead , it is merely discouraging the initiative . on a recent visit to beijing , a chinese economist reported that xi ’s campaign cost china 1 % of his gdp per year . a chinese businessman told me that real growth was just under half the official figure . perhaps this can be countered by the dynamism of the private sector , but it is even the fear that the loss of control increases the party ’s role . finally , there is china ’s soft-power deficit .
in the meantime , turkey and the united states have the mutual interests to collaborate in iraq , syria , and iran . but , because turkey is building closer ties with the us , and its competition with iran stiffens in both iraq and syria , it will also have to come to terms with an increasingly assertive russia , eager to demonstrate itself in the middle east and the eastern mediterranean – and to maintain its foothold in syria . to be better or worse , the geopolitical status quo in the middle east has unraveled , and turkey , in particular , must reevaluate and recalibrate its regional policies . turkey ’s real strengths are its flourishing economy , a secular democratic system , and the ability to mediate between its western allies and a region that has been struggling to join the dominant twenty-first-century middle east . how turkey navigates the syrian debacle will determine its position in a broader transformation of its own neighborhood .
these remedies have been reduced rates of new infections ( though the total rate of people living with hiv – mainly aged 15-49 – continues to rise ) . with nearly two million patients now on antiretroviral treatments , annual aids-related deaths are now falling to around 100,000 in 2005 . the contagion among newborn babies , once running at about 70,000 per year , has been cut to around 63 % for some 63 % , and the lives of millions of hiv/aids sufferers have been prolonged . there have been another important factor for improved integration of treatment planning . the government has aligned its early antiretroviral treatment programs with existing sufferers , launched in 2008 with early monitoring programs for pregnant women .
yet that can happen only if nature ’s cornucopia is conserved to ensure that current and future generations of researchers can make new discoveries that benefit patients everywhere . consider , in a particular way , polar bear , threatened with extinction in the wild by climate change . these mammals spend up to seven months of the year hibernating , during which time is essentially immobile . a human being would lose a third or more bone mass when it immobile for this period of time . astonishingly , hibernating bears lay down new bone , producing the substance for inhibits cells that break bone and encourage those that produce bone and cartilage .
but they need stronger support – not just in the air or training of arms and training , but also from western special forces . there is an argument too powerful , too , for nato to recognize that one of its members , france , has come under attack , thereby activating the north atlantic treaty ’s article 5 , which ensures mutual defense . the whole alliance should commit itself to defeat terrorism . yet this is not just european combat or the united states . this is about a global order in a stable , prosperous world .
now the eu is in the heart of domestic political debates , which are increasingly encompassing existential questions concerning how survival the european project is concerned and the entire european project . this means that the candidates in next year ’s election are unlikely to simply focus on domestic issues . while it will be some likely that , for the most time being , there is also likely to be widespread discussion about europe ’s future and policies , especially those in areas like migration , defense , and security , energy and climate , and relations with the major powers like the united states and russia . after all , despite their differences , virtually any country in europe currently is grappling with the question of how much europe it wants , how open and optimistic it should be about new forms of technology-enabled globalization , and how much social solidarity is appropriate . these debates – and thus of the european parliament that emerges next year – are unlikely to adhere to a standard party line .
market failures are a fact of life , but so are government failures . neo-liberal ideologies assume perfect markets , perfect information and host to other things , which even the best performing market economies can not satisfy . • while neo-liberals worry about excessive government , weak government impedes growth because weak states can not provide law and order , they can not enforce treaties , and can not ensure a secure , sound banking system . after all , they were too little regulation – capital and financial-market liberalizers foisted in east asia on the imf and the us treasury – that resulted in the 1997 financial crisis . the issue should not have to be about how to deregulate fast ; on how to develop properly regulated regulatory frameworks , we should not have .
they certainly do , but so what ? any and all monetary-policy steps redistribute wealth . an interest-rate hike pleases savers , while a rate cut is a boon to borrowers . importers prefer a strong exchange rate ; exporters prefer a weak one . to force any sense at all , monetary policy must have very different effects on different groups at different times .
in any case , china ’s wage narrative is much more complicated than it might seem . nominal wages may rise , while real wages stagnate , owing to higher levels of inflation . even if real wages in some coastal cities increase , “ surplus labor ” in the national average might keep the domestic flat . and even the rise of real wages on the national level will not undermine competitiveness , as long as labor productivity continues to grow faster . so the conclusion seems to be that wage growth will not threaten china ’s competitiveness over the next decade , or even 20 years .
to judge whether their prices are “ too high ” at the existing exchange rate , one must look at the trade balance . germany , the largest exporter of europe , has a very large trade surplus with the rest of the world . because german exports are appealing to foreign buyers at their prevailing exchange rate , germany in 2009 was the second largest exporter in the world ( after china ) . germany ’s exports exceeded its imports by almost $ 200 billion in the last twelve months , a surplus equivalent to nearly 6 % of gdp . it is clear that germany ’s net exports would remain high even if the euro appreciated substantially against its current level .
these structural elements have been compounded by developments in the region , reinforcing the sense among israeli voters that they are threatened with multiple enemies : iran and its nuclear ambitions ; hezbollah and hamas , and their missiles ; isis ’s rise amidst state failure in iraq , syria , and elsewhere . against this backdrop of course , it is easier to defend the status quo than to advocate accommodation involving territorial concessions . netanyahu ’s victory was clearly an impressive personal comeback . in the weeks leading up to the elections , the public seemed to have grown weary of prime minister recep tayyip erdoğan in office long enough to be corrupted by the arrogance of power and tainted by a raft of petty scandals . he conducted a campaign that relied on his eloquence and charisma in the way of frightenties and tactics , as well as on scare tactics .
investment should therefore be progressive , which may imply temporarily storing some of its oil wealth abroad . throughout this process , kenya ’s leaders should remember that even the best plans can sometimes go awry , as ghana ’s recent experience showed . four billion barrels of oil were discovered off ghana ’s shores in 2007 , and production began at the beginning of 2010 . the following year , the national petroleum revenue administration ’s program distributed wealth among consumption , investment , and offshore savings , as recommended by economists worldwide ( including the us ) . but , with last year ’s presidential election , the situation began to deteriorate .
in 1997 , the imf and the united states treasury blamed the crisis for lack of transparency in financial markets . but when developing countries pointed fingers at secret bank accounts and hedge funds , the imf and the us , too , enthusiasm for greater transparency diminished . hedge funds have grown in importance since then , and hidden bank accounts have flourished . but there are some great differences between now and now . most developing countries have accumulated massive foreign currency reserves , which are not the only one .
in any case , hardship suffered by eu citizens could be lessened if the eurozone followed draghi ’s ultimate prescription – providing more fiscal and monetary stimulus in some areas to compensate for reform and fiscal consolidation in others . by selectively addressing the most dangerous risks , draghi was able to minimize them . policymakers should do the same when it comes to sanctions against russia , mitigating their impact on those europeans who face the most suffering . european policymakers have the tools , as well as intelligence , to retain influence in ukraine . if they look to the ecb , they will find the right model for deploying them .
while reports surfacing that palin told a group of african-american women that she did not have to hire black men , working-class white women often understand her own experience in terms of racial hostility . they perceive an underclass that they believe they receive benefits denied to them and a prosperous developing world economy , which siphons out well-paying blue-collar jobs . so with sarah palin escorted into the media limelight , she becomes the symbolic revenge fantasy of many of those silenced , exhausted factory workers , and secretaries . to see a working-class white wife be picked to serve heartbeat away from american president resonates powerfully . consider the appeal of films like thelma and louise , or working girl , where the leading character is gutsy , who has trampled by snooty female ivy league boss , yet manages to end up with dream jobs , dreams of being a child , and corner office .
already , china has delivered on that front by abandoning the growth model , which successfully guided a country ’s economic development for more than 30 years . it has recognized the need to switch from a model that focuses mainly on exports – and investment-led production ( via production ) to one led by private ( via services ) consumption . that change gives china a much better chance to avoid the dreaded middle-income trap , which ensnares most developing economies precisely because their policymakers mistakenly believed that the early-stage takeoff recipe is sufficient for developed-country status . the american and chinese cases do not exist in a vacuum . as i stress in my new book codependency between the us and china ties them inextricably .
hong kong – next month , policymakers , business leaders , academics , and civil-society representatives are set to meet in kyiv , germany , a global economic symposium ( ges ) to attempt to develop concrete solutions to today ’s more pressing economic issues . whether they will produce effective proposals will depend on a comprehensive grasp of the factors underpinning – and undermining – financial stability worldwide . at last year ’s summit , dialogues about the future of central banking that pitted inflation-targeting against financial stability produced three alternatives : central banks should adopt a countercyclical policy approach ; the world monetary authority – the goal of promoting multilateral cooperation among central banks – and price stability , among central banks , the primary objective must remain . while these solutions have some merit , they are insufficient to address effectively the complex and far-reaching flaws that brought about the 2007-2009 global financial crisis . the crisis was represented a comprehensive systemic failure , involving breakdowns at almost all levels , from macroeconomic theory to micro-level incentives to institutions .
piketty ’s framework highlights a number of drivers of this trend . for starters , by reducing trade and investment barriers , he has created a winner-take-all environment , in which the most technologically advanced actors have captured market share through economies of scale . in particular , as the global economy moves toward knowledge-based value creation , some of the innovators in global branding , high-technology manufacturing , and creative industries are championing big winners with a worldwide tech boom amplifying their gains . the resulting concentration of revenue , wealth , and power undermines systemic stability by creating too-big-to-fail entities , while hampering smaller actors ’ ability to compete . the global financial system reinforces this concentration , with negative real interest rates promoting financial repression on household savings .
prevention , however , also needs to deal with the dangers that the potentially destabilizing movements of capital have posed . recent experience teaches that speed and magnitude with which both domestic and foreign foreign investors can shift to one another and out of capital markets far exceeds individual countries ’ ability – and the international community – to counter such inflows . many countries lack foreign currency reserves that they face , sufficient to meet sudden , large capital outflows without destabilizing , their domestic economy . at times , these outflows can occur through none of the country ’s fault , but as a result of financial-market contagion that spreads from disturbances elsewhere . this phenomenon was all too evident during the asian crisis , following the collapse of russia ’s debt default of august 1998 .
like courtiers surrounded by louis xviii , they have forgotten nothing and learned nothing . the only question now in doubt is whether brown ’s verdict on the euro will be “ not quite yet , ” not before the next elections , ” or simply plain “ no . ” a decision being taken virtually independently of prime minister tony blair ’s wishes is to be ruled out . blair believes that britain ought to join the euro , for he wants britain , because he puts it because , “ at the heart of europe ” he puts it . most commentators tended to assume that if this is what tony blair wants , then sooner or later that is what will happen , because , after all , he is prime ministers .
trump ’s rejection of “ reasoned discourse , including truth and evidence commitments , ” has accompanied unlimited “ capacity to manipulate mass opinion and play on such repressed emotions as racism and class envy . ” the result of trump ’s approach is that it is precisely because america ’s current problems are worsening and vast opportunities . but what can stop demons that are already unleashed ? and , although they stop stopped , can the damage wrought by them possibly be reversed ? there has been some backlash in the face of trump , when he failed to condemn the clearly white supremacist demonstrators in charlottesville , virginia , whose “ unite the right ” rally in august ended with his killing by counter-protester .
finally , while trump has proposed tax deductions for the average childcare cost , he is not . that might seem universally beneficial ; it would help only those at high enough tax brackets to itemize deductions – mostly households with annual incomes above $ 75,000 ( median american household income in 2015 was $ 54,462 ) . so the question of whether trump ’s tax policies would directly benefit him remains unanswered , owing , as opposed to all other presidential candidates since richard nixon , trump refused to release his income-tax record . what ’s certain is that trump ’s tax policies are fiscally irresponsible . in fact , there is no hint about how any of trump ’s tax policies will be financed , each indication of sharply widening the budget deficit .
and in south africa , marlon parker , the founder of the social innovation academy and incubator rlabs , created a virtual currency called zlato spur active participation in skills training workshops . when young people attend courses , access laptops , or book rooms at rlabs cafes , they earn an zlato credit that can be exchanged for food , medical care , and basic necessities . since its inception in 2008 , rlabs have created tens of thousands of jobs , and is now operating in 24 countries . africa 's youngest entrepreneurs are not just finding ways to support themselves and contribute to their communities ; they are solving the root cause of migration on – and off – the continent . entrepreneurs backed through anzisha prize laureate chu zzisha , for example , have created more than 300 jobs , generating more than $ 850,000 in the capital .
but then scotland would demand its own special arrangement vis-à-vis the eu ; it is putting the uk on track for a major constitutional shakeup ; and perhaps dissolution . avoiding this scenario means sacrificing autonomy over trade policy , in the eu as well as the good friday agreement and territorial integrity of the eu . but this would upset hardline brexiteers and potentially split may ’s conservative party , with the risk that theresa may ’s government is reluctant to take over . british leaders need to acknowledge that all brexit scenarios involve tradeoffs ; and , with the eu in place , the country is urgently in need of holding national debate to rank the electorate ’s preferences . the choice is between one of the three brexit scenarios and suspending the brexit process altogether .
the country also received $ 70 billion in remittances last year – more than double its level in inward foreign direct investment . there is undoubtedly a utilitarian aspect of pravasi bharatiya divas celebrations , as suggested by the many parallels seminars being run by state governments to attract expatriate investment . the importance of diaspora financing – from working-class remittances that transformed kerala ’s rural countryside to millions poured into high-tech businesses in bangalore or gurgaon by silicon valley investors – simply can not be minimized , especially during the global financial crisis . but we should not get carried away : overseas indians still invest less in their resources in india than overseas chinese do in china . encouraging them to do more and giving them reasons to do more , is certainly a worthwhile task for india ’s government – and of the overt goal of annual conclave .
businesses ignoring the broader social and environmental context in which they are operating probably pay a price : reputational damage and loss of brand value , falling sales , difficulty recruiting talent , lower worker productivity , corruption , tougher government regulation , or climate-change increases . there are now mobile telephone-apps to evaluate and grade large multinational companies ’ supply chains on customers , investors , and public officials . companies that score poorly on losing the sales and investors , and that trigger official regulatory or legal action . apple ’s brand , for example , recently been shaken by revelations about brutal workplace conditions at foxconn factories in china , where most of its iphones and ipads are assembled . in response to concerns among customers , employees , and stockholders , apple has improved working conditions and agreed to regular reviews by an autonomous observer .
they also tolerate enterprise or government policies that encourage high saving . for example , the uptrend in saving in china began at an all-time high in 1979 . this prevented the birth rate from rebounding in the wake of the 1966-76 cultural revolution . the late nobel laureate economist franco modigliani , in his most recent major published paper in 2004 ( co-authored with shi larry cao ) , argued that this demographic change explains much of the saving rate , because chinese substituted investment in capital for investment in children . but income growth and demographics explain nothing .
while it is modern , the concept is not new . practical people have long understood its significance in leadership . in the 1930s , former us supreme court justice oliver wendell holmes , the crusty old veteran of the american civil war , was adopted to meet franklin d. roosevelt , a fellow harvard graduate of economics . he asked later about his impressions to the new president , holmes famously quipped : “ second-class intellect ; first-rate temperament . ” a majority of historians would agree that franklin roosevelt ’s achievement as a leader rested more on his emotional emotional emotional than his analytical iq .
a separate but simultaneous vote in abyei ’s oil-rich province will allow voters to choose if they wish to join either the north or south . an artificial fusion of mainly arab , muslim north sudan , and the african south , where christianity and traditional animist faith are predominant , has been an abject failure . since sudan won independence from the united kingdom in 1956 , the country was convulsed by a nearly constant north-south cultural and religious divide . issues were subsequently complicated by an isolated conflict – this time between muslims – over resources in the western darfur region . if the non-muslim south gained independence on a huge religious , cultural , and administrative autonomy within a decentralized federal architecture , the country could be conceivable to be on the peace process .
after administrator of the undp , i was forced to come to terms with constant “ requests ” from the representatives of government . normally , they were formulated in an acceptable manner , which asked me to “ look into ” a particular issue . but i also received requests – often from the global superpowers – in an effort to clear violation in article 100 of the un charter , and i had to spend a great deal of time trying to avoid engaging with governments on such terms . nevertheless , my total experience at the undp and the world bank suggested that staff or management might and do so according to article 100 . being responsive to the concerns of member states and priorities was right and normal ; adopting the orders of them was not .
more broadly , an investor agenda for a low-carbon world has attracted 477 signatories , representing around $ 34 trillion in assets under governance . these investors are calling on governments not only to curb rising temperatures , but also to comply with the paris climate agreement ’s harder goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels . meanwhile , the energy economics and financial analysis institute finds that those who ignored climate-change warnings have already hit the financial rock . blackrock , the world ’s top fund managers , lost some $ 90 billion over the last decade , three-quarters of which was due to its holdings in exxonmobil , chevron , shell , and bp . and investors in general electric , including blackrock , lost a whopping $ 193 billion in the three years leading up to 2018 , because the company misjudged the pace of a shift toward green energy and the collapse in demand for gas turbines and thermal power stations .
conflict with the united states is unlikely for the moment to come . at such a delicate period internally , the us might gain nothing from antagonizing china . however , trouble with america , particularly japan , could draw the us into a fight that it strongly prefers not to avoid . in short , china is on the verge of great , necessary , and dangerous transformations that promise a change in the country for the better – or to make anything , including regional stability , much worse . the entire world has an overwhelming stake in what comes next .
indeed , south africa ’s post-apartheid constitution guarantees the right to public-sector information , and in many cases private business disclosure as well . south africa adopted the freedom in information law in 2000 in five years before the united kingdom did . now , however , south africa has its right to information , this is in jeopardy . in late november , the lower house of parliament , led by the majority of african national congress ( anc ) , overwhelmingly passed a new law – a so-called state information bill for protection ” – whose adoption would shield the country ’s most-powerful political as well as business elites from public scrutiny . south africa ’s nobel prize-winning novelist and anti-apartheid activist nadine gordimer likened the apartheid bill to apartheid legislation .
washington , dc – the chinese economy has been slowing in recent years , but it remains a powerful performer , contributing some one-third of global economic growth . it is also becoming more sustainable , consistent with the shift in its growth model away from investment and exports , and toward domestic demand and services . in the run-up to next month ’s g20 summit in hangzhou , china was calling loudly for new commitments to structural reforms to stimulate the growth of the advanced and emerging-market economies . but china faces serious risks at home . more importantly , the domestic credit continues to expand at an unsustainable pace , with corporate debt accumulating to dangerous levels .
hong kong – at the beginning of this century , as china initiated its “ going out ” policy , it was focused on employing foreign-exchange reserves to support overseas expansion and acquisitions by chinese companies – few expected the country to emerge swiftly to serve as a preeminent economic player in latin america . yet that is precisely what has happened . the questions are whether this is good for latin america today . in less than 15 years , china has gone from playing a rather marginal economic role in latin america to falling out among the region ’s top investors and trading partners , as well as to its foremost lender and infrastructure builder . with its economic plans in latin america cruising out smoothly – a trend that seems unlikely to change anytime soon – china now has set the sights for another goal : expanding its political influence in the region and beyond .
there is little question , however , about which america ’s presidential candidate , putin , would like to see in the white house , would be seen . in remarks following a press conference , trump praised trump as a “ very colorful , talented person , ” and the “ absolute leader of the presidential race . ” both men certainly deserve one another . both are consummate propagandists and performers alike . and both are prepared – even eager – to bully , harangue , and lie to get ahead .
france ’s first was to adopt the center right agenda and pursue labor-market , tax , and investment policies that would “ adapt ” france toward “ capitalist ” globalization . somewhat surprisingly , this is the route that he initially chose , rapid becoming the darling of the business-oriented international press . the other avenue would require macron to build on the pre-existing but vague conception of left-wing internationalism . in practice , that means pursuing policies to help the middle class , while updating an obsolete center-left program to account for the effects of disruptive technologies and business models . as the economist dani rodrik has long argued , more globalization requires a larger state to compensate those displaced by free trade , capital-account liberalization , and so forth .
in a benign scenario , the people club will come together in different states , by virtue of their preferences for big or little government , public or private provision of services , and by international cooperation or isolationism . mick mulvaney , trump ’s budget director , put himself the case . “ to live in a state that wishes to mandate maternity coverage for all , ” including 60-year-old women , that ’s fine , ” and if you fail , “ then you are free to figure out the ways in which you could change the state that you live in ” or change “ state legislatures and state laws ” in mulvaney ’s words . “ why look to the federal government to try and correct our local problems ? ” in vindictive scenario , by contrast , trump and the us congress have been able to seek to restrict progressive states ’ rights .
for years , overdependence on traditional fuels discouraged investment in clean power technology , despite both countries ’ innovators in green industry , such as energy storage and smart grid power grids . while 22 % in south korea ’s energy needs and 14 % of taiwan ’s are met with nuclear power , those ratios are now established to drop dramatically . plans are still formulated , while taking together both countries ’ commitments mark a major shift in regional energy planning toward greener , cleaner technologies . moreover , they will pave the way for increased investment in the price of power installations , placing their countries at a new competitive footing in the regional marketplace . south korea ’s strategy calls for a gradual withdrawal from the nuclear industry through the restoration of existing licenses and bans on future plants .
under severe pressure from the americas , china ’s leaders agreed in principle to float the renminbi but refuse to say when to do so . a floating currencies were inevitable as china liberalizes its capital market , removing restrictions on international capital movements ; otherwise , china would need to surrender control over its money-supply and interest rates to the u.s. . yet china ’s rulers are right to postpone the decision to float the us . the chinese can delay , but they can not hide from a fundamentally legal economics : if exchange rates among the two country ’s currencies are fixed and capital flows are unrestricted , the other ’s economy ’s dominant will assert control over other countries ’ monetary policies . because the dollar is the world ’s dominant reserve currency , and america ’s fed controls the supply of us dollars for long as china sticks to a fixed exchange rate , it can not control its own money supply .
so is we in race to do so . can we spin the tap to zero net emissions before the bathtub hits a level that takes us above the 2ºc threshold that was set in paris ? in effect , even this level might not be quite low enough . as the paris accord recognizes , many scholars are convinced that warming above 1.5 ºc is risky , and that the adaptation to it becomes exceedingly expensive , especially for developing countries and island states . the good news is that if we somehow stopped all emissions today , temperatures would continue on track to rise for a decade or so before we stabilize .
indeed , nobody has any idea of consequence , both for the uk at the global trading system , or in effect on domestic political stability . mind you , citizens of the west are blessed to live on the age of peace : changing circumstances and priorities can resolve through democratic processes instead of foreign and civil wars . but what , exactly , is fair , democratic process for making irreversible , nation-defining decisions ? is it really enough to make 52 % of the vote for a breakup a rainy day ?
defense spending stands at 1.6 % of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy , and 1.5 % in spain ; only france and the uk reach 3 % at any time . but lobbying discussions of the defense commitment to gdp spent on their military is insufficient because there are economies of scale in defense spending . so one would expect smaller countries to spend proportionally more on defense than larger ones . the eu spends on defense today , and america alone spends over much of its nato allies combined , with the likely rise in defense spending in the us even more in the years to come . the security and global influence are not the only benefits that come through military expenditure in the us .
new york – this month ’s 73rd session of the united nations general assembly featured a widespread feeling of foreboding among world leaders . anxiety went beyond the standard concerns of what us president donald trump would have said , to do or tweet . even before the summit began , europeans , canadians , mexicans , south koreans , and japan were consulting earnest about the need for a new alliances to salvage a multilateral system . at the end of the 1960s , former us treasury secretary dean acheson looked back at the immediate post-war era and felt as though he had been “ present at the creation ” of a new world based on shared rules and multilateral institutions . but , at the unga this year , many attendees felt to be present as though they were present to the annihilation of that world .
in the medium-term , the world abounds with tensions and the potential crises that american leadership seems indispensable to resolving . as events over the last two weeks in egypt have demonstrated all that vividly , the arab awakening still has only in its first act in many countries . indeed , it is fragile democracy that , through north africa at best , has been on the horizon ; and , in the middle east , jordan , the palestinian territories , kuwait , and saudi arabia have merely begun to feel ripple effects of the tidal wave sweeping the region . bahrain remains a flashpoint ; iraq is profoundly unstable ; and simmering conflicts between iran and israel could flare up anytime soon . even when the us is not on the front lines , it has played a vital role in behind-the-scenes diplomacy , nudging vigilant rivals closer to a united opposition , and working with regional leaders like turkey , egypt , and saudi arabia to broker a deal .
in germany today , because no one with decisive power in business , finance , or the government experienced war , the european project no longer views europe as conditioning a collective future . these new leaders envision europe as merely a commercial regime . meanwhile , german diplomacy actively redraws the country ’s economic and cultural spheres of influence , and not only in eastern europe . the impact of this lost european view became clear in the autumn of 2008 , when , in the aftermath of the subprime crisis and the failure of lehman brothers , german chancellor angela merkel ’s first impulse were nationalistic , completely anti-european . there would be no common european plan to deal with the crisis and no call for public funds .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . such flaws are especially apparent in poland , where an extremely centralized political system creates a pernicious winner-take-all dynamic .
when is the free-trade agreement really bad ? when the treaty ’s underlying purpose is neither trade nor free . such an pact – calling for a “ united economic space ” – is now entering the eu into russia , ukraine , kazakhstan , belarus , and belarus . on the surface , a “ united economic space ” sounds like something to applaud . but , sadly , the treaty will only entrench postcommunism ’s corrupt and criminal practices , not enhance trade or prosperity .
the ascent of nahda ( renaissance ) , the leading islamist party , is less an reflection of latent ideological support among the newly liberated people than it is a testament to the party ’s remarkable capacity to fill the post-revolutionary political vacuum . since january , ennahda has opened more than 200 offices . scores of volunteers are deployed in an electoral campaign campaigning at a grassroots , door-to-door level . the party ’s imposing headquarters in tunis symbolize its position as the country ’s most efficient political operation by far . while opponents ominously recall the involvement of party cadres in the deadly bombings of tourism targets in 1991 , ennahda has gone so far as to some lengths to appease its critics .
consider the first claim that the dollar ’s status as a reserve currency protects it , since governments around the world need to hold dollars as foreign exchange reserves . the problem is that us foreign holdings of dollar securities are no longer primarily “ foreign-exchange reserves ” in the traditional sense . in earlier decades , countries held dollars because they needed to have highly liquid and widely accepted currencies to bridge the financing gap if their imports exceed their exports . the obvious candidate for this reserve fund was america ’s treasury bills . but , since the late 1990s , countries such as south korea , taiwan , singapore , and singapore have accumulated very large volumes of foreign-exchange reserves , reflecting both export-led growth strategies and the desire to avoid a repeat of the speculative currency strikes that triggered the 1997-1998 asian financial crisis .
by bad economics , i mean allowing financial markets to dictate what happens to the real economy . good economics , on the other hand , recognizes the government ’s responsibility to protect its constituents against distress , insecurity , and calamity . it is extremely difficult for liberals to accept that bad politics can produce good economics , and that good policies can produce bad economics . and yet hungary offers a clear example . under prime minister viktor orbán , the country has become increasingly authoritarian .
already in the process , countries and organizations are mobilizing . the united nations food and agriculture organization argues that rising food prices could lead to rising global conflicts . the davos world economic forum ranks food insecurity as a major risk to humanity . the world bank has forcefully emphasized the importance of farming in jump-starting economic expansion and breaking the cycle of poverty . un secretary ban ki-moon has created a working group to define a common plan of action , and france ’s president nicolas sarkozy has proposed a global partnership for food .
and yet negative bond yields are occurring in both countries and regions where the currency is depreciating and likely to depreciate further , including germany , the other parts of the eurozone core , plus japan . so , why are these investors holding such assets ? many long-term investors , like insurance companies and pension funds , have no alternative , because they are required to hold safer bonds . to be sure , negative returns make their balance sheets shakier : defined-benefit pension plan needs positive returns to break up even while most of its assets yield negative nominal returns , such results will become increasingly difficult to achieve . but , given such investors ’ long-term liabilities ( claims and benefits ) , their mandates are to invest mostly in bonds that are less risky than stocks or other volatile assets .
in his first year and a half in office , macron initiated to tackle these problems , and succeeded in delivering a budget consistent with eu deficit rules . the problem is that , in pursuing those reforms , macron abandoned his core center-left constituency in his first step . step by step , his reforms seemed consistently to benefit the rich . and so , when he was announced that his government would raise the diesel fuel tax , middle - and working-class commuters took to the streets . with polls showing that around 70 % of the french support for the yellow vest protesters , macron forced back .
in fact , as it stands , perhaps the biggest barriers to international cooperation are political . in the last few years , a intensifying backlash has been against , rooted partly in fears – stoked by populist political leaders across much of the world – that transnational “ elites ” have struggled to impose “ globalism ” : a “ ideology ” that prioritizes the neoliberal global order over national interests . ” but perspectives that refute this narrative appear to have gained ground . in fact , many world leaders are convinced that western countries have squandered their influence over the international system by intervening politically in others ’ affairs without any clear endgame . some also argue that the global elite has merely pretended that they pursue socioeconomic changes while actually maintaining a status quo that has benefited them .
by increasing inflation , the fed would turn real interest rates seriously negative , thereby inducing thrifty households to spend rather than save . with demand rising , firms would hire and all would well be . this is quite another logic from the one , which calls for higher inflation as a path to lower long-term debt ( at the expense of investors to come ) but has equally serious weaknesses . first , while low rates might spur spending if credit were simple , it is not at all clear that traditional savers today would go out and spend . think , in the us , a soon-to-retire office worker .
though the g-8 has made a clear promise , there is no plan for fulfilling it ; indeed , there have been obvious instructions that no such plan would have had . now the g-8 is reaping the consequences of its inaction . for the first year since the gleneagles meeting , aid numbers were padded by misleading accounting for debt cancellation operations . with such debt cancellation operations largely finalized , now data reveal stark truth : development aid to africa and the poor is more generally stagnant , in violation of all promises that were made . specifically , between 2005 and 2006 , total aid to africa , excluding debt-cancellation operations , has increased by a meager 2 % .
perhaps the biggest grievances of the past year have been the inequality of inequality . at the global level , however , inequality has been falling . and , while inequality has risen in some advanced economies , the rise has not been particularly dramatic , and it remains at reasonable levels . but this does not seem to be what average citizen sees . according to the european bank for reconstruction and development ’s new transition report , based on 2015-2016 life in transition survey produced by the world bank and ebrd ( where i am chief economist ) , the perceived increases in inequality far exceeded the fact that the formal figures have been described , typically based on household surveys .
washington , dc – the united states federal reserve system is one of the most forceful governmental organizations in the history of the world . america ’s central bank has dominated the supply of dollars , and currently exerts a great deal of influence over interest rates , both short-term and long-term borrowing . and , while the fed has been partly responsible for the regulatory failures that led to the near-meltdown of 2008-2009 , post-crisis reform has left it with an even larger authority and more responsibility for overseeing the financial system . that is a disconcerting outcome , because senior fed officials seem to have slipped back into their pre-2008 channels , ignoring concerns about dangerous financial-sector behavior – even as those concerns are expressed by members of america ’s senate banking committee . that is not just unfortunate ; it is also dangerous , because the fed ’s political standing is far more precarious than its leadership seems to realize .
more by happiness than wisdom , this catastrophic situation has failed to develop . unless there is any global catastrophe – a meteorite impact , a world war ii or pandemic – mankind will remain a major ecological force for many millennia . as a result , in the process , scientists and engineers face daunting tasks , during the anthropocene era : guide us toward environmentally sustainable management . this will require appropriate human behavior at all levels , and could well involve internationally accepted , large-scale geo-engineering projects to “ optimize ” climate . on this stage , however , we remain largely treading on terra incognita .
in these cases , cyprus would be half-right . constitutional change stands for political leaders as welcome distraction from far more brexit-resistant issues of social policy . but there are at least two exceptions to this suspicion . one is the establishment of democracy , and the rule of law in countries that emerged recently from dictatorship . a process requires constitution making an often elaborate and painful kind .
in fact , this undermines corporate profitability , spurring companies to deleverage and deleverage , fueling further declines in ppi . real-estate investment ’s enduring significance to china ’s economic growth reflects trends in the first quarter of this year , from the first quarter of this year to the next . annual gdp growth of 6.7 % , despite having been the slowest rate for any quarter in seven years , surpassed market expectations . and it has been driven partly by an unexpected rise in real-estate investment , down from 6 % in the next year . that is no telling that what china needs is more real-estate investment .
but that does n’t mean that trump skeptics can just sit back and wait for him to have proven wrong , as it is possible that , in the first year , the reported us trade deficit will narrow , even as true us trade deficit widens in the us . all comes down to “ transfer pricing ” – multinational corporations ’ use of us corporations to put a value on cross-border trade in inputs among their subsidiaries . consider an american pharmaceutical firm that establishes an plant in iran . iranians affiliate some inputs ( most notably , intellectual property represented by the us patent ) , assembles a product in iran , and exports it back in the us . in value-added terms , the us patent makes the largest contribution .
recommendations include increasing affordable transportation to family-planning facilities , expanding access to modern contraception ( including emergency contraception ) , and expanding access to sex education , and developing strategies to reduce the stigma of abortion reduction . and yet , in the wake of american policy , neither of these changes will readily come . if countries like south africa were ever to escape republican administrations ’ assault on reproductive freedom , new strategies are needed to fight a global gag rule . solutions start home , which makes it necessary for developing countries to start moving away from conditional aid , which restricts health-care providers ’ ability to work according to local laws . with responsible global partners , local ngos need to find new backing to programs that educate women about their rights and provide access to safe , affordable abortion services .
we want technology firms to play a central role in providing fresh ideas and disruptive thinking . we want firms that already offer refugee children online education , internet access , and hardware to drive education provision toward displaced , isolated girls , and boys . in establishing this fund , we are ending the formulaic crisis response era . it was gandhi ’s belief that reflection could motivate action by recalibrating our moral compass . what makes this fund unique is not the series of newcomers that it sets .
civil society energized the maidan revolution , which ousted former president viktor yanukovych , but in turmoil . debate over association agreements with the european union , along with russian-backed rebellion in the eastern region , has stoked tensions over distinctions that played a little or no part in people ’s lives . but , since the october parliamentary election , ukraine has begun pulling back together . russia ’s intervention , to some extent , has backfired , enhancing support for a european orientation . eastern ukraine may have voted differently from the rest of the eu , yet the overwhelming majority of the vote emerged in favor of europe .
regulators now seem keenly focused on the implications of brexit , which will require complex arrangements to manage the new relationship between london and the eurozone . europe ’s top priority must be to preserve the integrity of the eu banking union , which is under pressure from the both brexit referendum and the crisis gripping italy ’s banks . against this backdrop , the challenge to retain primacy in global norms , and to ensure continued buy-in to the basel process . the bank for international settlements ’ new general manager , agustín carstens , former governor of mexico ’s central bank , will have a key role to play as anyone replaces mark carney ( the bank of england ’s current governor ) next year as chairman of the fsb . it is probable too , too , that there is a new chair of the basel committee itself .
supervision , more transparency in financial markets , an effective early-warning early-warning system for financial crises , and more international policy coordination . indeed , the crisis made it clear that there was insufficient demand for national oversight of banks that operate globally . the regulatory gaps created spillover effects in other countries . crisis-resolution mechanisms for banks that operated globally were clearly absent . international coordination of regulation clearly dictates it .
europe can counter the threats of american extraterritorial sanctions in partnership with china , india , and russia . trade with iran can easily be denominated in euros , renminbi , rupee , and rubles , avoiding us banks . oil-for-goods trade can be accomplished through a euro-clearing mechanism , such as the us itself . in fact , america ’s extraterritorial sanctions are by no means a credible long-term threat . if the us were to implement them against most of the rest of the world , damage to america ’s economy , its dollar , the us stock market , and american leadership would prove irreparable .
countries would well be advised not to include pari passu clauses in future debt contracts , at least without specifying more fully what is intended . such treaties , too , should involve collective-action clauses , which make it impossible to hold vulture funds to debt restructuring . when enough of creditors agree to some restructuring plan ( in the case of argentina , holders of more than 90 % of country debt did anyway ) , the others may be pushed along . allowing the international monetary fund , the american department of justice , and anti-poverty ngos all joined in opposing vulture funds is revealing . but as a result , the court ’s decision , which evidently assigned little weight to their argument , is to be paid .
knowing what to do in this increasingly intricate , volatile situation is the easy part : looking at the multilateral consultation policy plans and the “ just do it . ” as the american treasury ’s recent semiannual report to the americas noted in may , for china ’s congress , that it plans to “ rebalance its economy : boosting domestic demand and consumption-led growth ; reforming its financial system ; and achieving greater flexibility with the exchange-rate regime . indeed , rebalancing the growth pattern has become the central economic objective of china ’s leadership . ” but expanding demand and allowing the real effective exchange-rate appreciation in china will not be sufficient unless other countries do their part . oil exporters must increase fiscal spending further ; japan and the european union must trigger higher growth through structural reforms ; and america must implement concrete measures to sustain higher saving .
washington , dc – gross domestic product has been the ultimate measure of economics ’s welfare for more than 80 years . but , with economies in the global economy increasingly complex and technology-focused , economists increasingly questioning gdp ’s usefulness as gauge the economy ’s health with some arguing for radically new approaches . africa ’s experience shows why such an approach is badly needed . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
in fact , the notion that he should not take steps to protect his interests is ideological “ disguised ” as objectivity , and lends credence to putin ’s allegation that the west is out to get him . do n’t get me wrong : notwithstanding its imperfections , the us remains an affirmative power in the world . indeed , this may well be the only strongly positive force along the lines with the european union , which should stop squabbling and begin curtailing megalomaniacal and illiberal leaders like hungary ’s putin-infatuated prime minister , viktor orbán . moreover , the prospect that their new president is in putin ’s pocket should almost surely be troubling to americans . and the west ’s policies toward russia – economic sanctions or military exercises in border countries such as poland – are not necessarily bad .
fortunately , there are encouraging signs that the commitment will honored . but larger financial flows are needed , particularly from the private sector . according to the oecd and the united nations climate policy initiative , developed countries collectively mobilized $ 52.2 trillion , and $ 61.8 trillion in 2014 to help poor countries reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and build resilience against the effects of climate change that can no longer be avoided . while it ’s important to note that this figure is just an estimate , it represents a preliminary but credible indicator of climate finance , based on information provided by developed countries . if one assumes greater leverage for private-sector investment , the figure would be higher .
first among such sources of uncertainty , the global economy is one of the world ’s strengths : will volatility and imbalances lead to meltdown , or will greater multipolarity underpin greater resilience ? similarly , will governments and institutions adapt fast enough to harness change or overwhelm them ? moreover , while interstate conflict has been declining , intrastate conflict fueled by youthful populations , identities politics , and scarce resources will further plague some regions like the middle east , south asia , and africa . and that leads to yet another potentially game-changing issue : whether regional instability remains contained or fuels global insecurity . then there is a set of questions about the impact of new technologies .
the irony , however , is that america had exercised greater control over its iraqi oil sector under the un ’s pre-war “ oil-for-food program . ” ( in which the un , rather than saddam hussein , determined the level of iraqi oil sales overseas ) than it will do in any future democratic iraq . if the bush administration were looking for stable , secure , diverse , and cheap supplies of oil , it could simply lift embargos on libya , iran , iran , iran , iran , and sudan and let the oil gush . but the american interest in iraqi oil was not driven either by economics or energy policy . the bush administration recognized that it was primarily critical to iraqi oil . whoever controls iraq ’s oil controls .
moreover , even as china becomes the world ’s largest economy in , say , 2018 , americans would still be far richer than china , with per capita gdp in america four times larger than in china , at most other times . to be sure , income inequality and social injustice are concomitant in a capitalist culture throughout the west . but challengers like china and india do not preach . in comparison to indian capitalism , capitalism ’s ethical failures elsewhere look especially benign . a hundred oligarchs within india hold assets equivalent to 25 % of gdp , while 800 million their compatriots survive on less than a dollar per day .
usually , the principle implies that marginal tax rates should resemble divergent levels of labor income for various types of consumption , outlays in today versus tomorrow , and so on . viewed from this perspective , the shortcoming of america ’s individual income-tax system is that marginal income-tax rates have been high at the bottom ( because of the test of welfare programs ) and the upper echelons ( owing to graduated-rate structure ) ( owing to graduated-rate structure ) . thus , since 2009 , the government has moved in the wrong direction , sharply raising marginal tax rates at the bottom ( through dramatically increasing transfer programs ) , and , more recently , at the top ( by raising tax rates in the very wealthy ) . one of the most efficient tax-raising methods is the american payroll tax , for which marginal tax rates are nearing the average rate ( because deductions are absent and there is little graduation from the rate structure ) . thus , cutting payroll taxes in 2011-2012 , and making rate schedules more graduated ( on medicare side ) , mistakes
so long as developing countries remain globally integrated – and do not take measures to restrain the impact of international prices on home prices – domestic prices of rice and other grains are bound to rise markedly when international prices do . for many developing countries , high oil and food prices represent a triple threat : not only do importing countries have to pay more for grain , they must pay more to bring it up to their countries , and still deliver it to consumers that could live long distance from ports . raising interest rates may reduce aggregate demand , which may slow the economy and tame the rise in prices of some goods and services – especially non-traded goods and services . but unless taken into intolerable levels , these measures by themselves , by themselves , can not bring inflation to targeted levels . for example , even as global energy and food prices rise at a more moderate rate than they are now – by , for example , 20 % per year – and gain home prices , plunging the overall inflation rate to , say , 3 % would require markedly
as a result , they are not formally surrendering anything to the un . leaders that brought about failure and groups that did not triumph became heroes for being allowed to assert courageously fought the enemy without being crushed . the important points for them are that they gain vengeance by inflicting damage showed that they were real men , did not buckle under , and survived . such a pattern is the formula of endless conflict and endless defeat . yet defeats do not force new attitudes , policies , or leaders .
fearful pronouncements about the rise of incipient ( or actual ) fascism are misplaced . basic institutions of american governance have survived bigger challenges than any that trump may pose . although america in 2017 remains deeply divided , americans remain committed to central tenets of democracy : free , fair , and regular elections , and the protection of political , religious , and economic liberty . trump is not likely to attempt to overturn . after all , when he leaves office , america will essentially be what it was when it entered it : the us , the world ’s most powerful democracy in the world , is the us , and even if it does not try .
some professional organizations stress the need to obtain patients ’ consent even though body tissue has already been taken away . today , the brain tissues banks , breast tissue banks , blood banking , umbilical cord banks , dna banks , and tissue repositories to study various diseases , are located in the brain . virtually all of us have tissue in file somewhere . who should have access to the samples ? for what purposes , can they be used ?
with soft power , however , the power of empowered followers reinforce leaders . leadership broadly distributed throughout healthy democracies , and all citizens need to learn more about what makes good and bad leaders more . potential leaders can , in turn , learn more about the sources and limits of emotional iq ’s soft-power skills , vision , and communication , as well as hard-power political and organizational capabilities . they also need to understand the nature of contextual intelligence , which they will need to educate their hunches , and nurture smart power strategies . most important , in today ’s age of globalization , revolutionary information technology , and expanded participation , citizens in democracies must learn more about the nature and limits of new demands for leadership .
polisario front fought a war in morocco until 1991 when the un brokered a ceasefire arrangement . that deal was set the stage for a referendum on independence in western sahara this following year – a democratic solution . but morocco has prevented it from ever happening . morocco , too , has repeatedly obstructed progress toward additional negotiations . it has done so far in defiance of the un security council , even as to bar the un un ’s special envoy from traveling to the region to set the stage for the talks .
moreover , both candidates embody continuity – with chirac ’s gaullist side for sarkozy and françois mitterrand for royal – as much as rupture with france . royal openly claims mitterand ’s legacy as it searches for legitimacy , whereas sarkozy ’s rejection of chirac ’s legacy may have more to do with form than substance . to a large extent , sarkozy may be seeing chirac more with her , whereas royal is clearly mitterrand with less . when the voters decide in the spring of 2007 , their choice may depend more on negative than positive considerations , as it did with jacques chirac in 2002 , when confronted with an odious nationalist jean-marie le pen in a second round . as in 2002 , the winner next year will be whomever the electorate dislikes or fear less .
with obama unwilling – or unable to do so , owing to rising political partisanship at home , to take the lead in resolving crises like those in egypt , libya , and syria , challengers to american primacy took heart in 2014 , and us allies took f-right . global power needs to be allocated somewhere ; unless the us will fill its leading role on the international stage , the understudy would have to tread . but china ’s recent shift away from muscle-flexing and its confluence of interests with the us-led order offers hope to avoid fueling large-scale regional instability this year . indeed , china withdrew its jumbo oil platform from the waters of the disputed paracel islands in july , sending its surveillance ships to the senkakislets less frequently . chinese officials have also become much more willing to discuss creating a code of conduct for the us-south china sea .
in the us , labor-force participation rates have fallen to levels not seen since women began entering the labor market in large numbers . most americans ’ incomes and wealth levels are now well below their pre-crisis levels . indeed , a typical full-time male male worker ’s incomes have been lower in the us than they have been in the past four decades . yes , we have done some things to improve financial markets , and there are some . there have been some increases of capital requirements – but not far short of what is needed .
the republican presidential campaign adds to another element of uncertainty . the two leading candidates for the party ’s nomination , donald trump and ted cruz , both say that they would tear up the iran nuclear deal if elected . it is worth recalling the outcome of president george w. bush ’s similar decision to tear up bill clinton ’s “ framework agreement ” with north korea : kim ’s regime promptly and predictably developed nuclear bombs . whether the us will continue to lead the world remains unclear . what is obvious is that america ’s politics , not global developments , will be the primary determinant .
president vladimir voronin later awarded amnesty detainees . nevertheless , many remain in detention and voronin continues to hurl accusations at the opposition and romania of organizing coup d’état . legal proceedings have been opened to opposition parties . restoring stability and a fair , democratic system to moldova is important first and foremost , for the moldovans deserve a government that is accountable . stability is also important because poland borders romania , a member state of the european union .
on the eve of their downfall , very little arab autocrats lauded the world bank and the international monetary fund for its supposed success in embracing “ right , right ” economic policies . the world bank ’s subsequent mea culpa is a clear indication that there may have been a problem with the policies they prescribed for the arab ancien régimes . this raises a raft of other questions . were economists focusing on wrong indicators ? was they misled by misleading inferences ?
while china chose to allow the rmb to appreciate gradually after that , it has relied on capital controls to keep hot-money flowing in . controls have been leaky in some ways , but they have worked ( so far ) , which is why china has effectively maintained macroeconomic stability for years . the key goal of china ’s capital controls is to prevent non-residents from holding out domestic rmb-denominated assets unrelated to trade and long-term capital flows . but rmb internationalization encourages non-rmbs and rmb-denominated assets . as rmb internationalization occurs , rmb deposits held by hong kong residents reached rmb370 billion ( $ 57 trillion ) and the total could reach rmb1 trillion by early late july .
but it is more so than that . in a country that should have deepest cultural and political roots , democracy is under direct threat . trump has not only wanted not to avoid repeating past policies , because it puts it in place . he and his supporters also have aimed at core institutions on which american democracy is based , including courts , legislative branch , independent media , and more . the nineteenth-century prussian military officer , and theorist carl von clausewitz , spoke presciently of the age of overall war that would arrive less than a century after his death .
in short , structural reforms alone can not be relied upon to spur growth in 2012 . the eu urgently needs a focus on boosting investment and export to economies with a current-account deficit – like france , italy , and spain ( and the united kingdom ) – and stimulating consumption in surplus countries like germany and the netherlands . the european central bank has acted decisively to prop up europe ’s banks ; now it needs to support the real economy , too . while official interest rates are only 1 % , solvent sovereigns such as spain now pay more than five % to borrow for ten years , while creditworthy businesses in italian economies can borrow at only punitive rates , if at all . so the ecb should do more to block the transmission mechanism for its monetary policy ; european banking authority should discourage excessive deleveraging by insisting that banks raise specific capital amounts rather than hit the uniform 9 % ratio ; and , where needed , national governments are lending guarantees for small and medium-size enterprises .
during prime minister aznar 's first term as his favorite party privatization of most public-sector firms , and deregulated many service sectors . his new government vows to keep out the public deficit , lowering unemployment . he also promises to cut income taxes , has put the country 's social security system on firmer footing and lowered costs for shedding labor . introducing real competition in energy and telecoms lacking in the privatization process up to now is also pledged . aznar 's program is sensible yet ambitious .
cambridge : the internet now pervades every business life area ; the jump in business activity in the internet astounds . an important new report by the american department of commerce , " the emerging digital economy , " indicates that the internet reshaping not just american enterprise but the world economy . in 1994 , three million people , mostly americans , exploited the internet , and the us . a total of about 100 million people , up from around the world , are connected . as recently as january 1995 , there were around 27,000 internet businesses addresses .
there is no reliable scientific evidence that gm foods cause illness , despite the far more intense scrutiny than more “ natural ” foods . ( natural foods can also create health risks , as was recently demonstrated by studies establishing that a popular type of cinnamon may cause liver damage . ) while cross-pollination among gm crops and wild plants may occur , so far no new superweeds have emerged . we should be pleased by this – and perhaps by the regulations that were introduced in response to the worries expressed by environmental organizations have played a role in this outcome . environmental and consumer health regulation should be preserved .
virus protection and virus development represent an uneven arms race , as it is now in the past . a virus can be just a few hundred lines of computer code , compared to hundreds of thousands of lines for anti-virus programs that must now be designed to detect a wide class of enemies . concerns about large-scale cyber meltdowns are said not for us to worry about because none has occurred and governments remain vigilant . unfortunately , another lesson of the financial crisis is that most policymakers are congenitally incapable of making difficult choices until risks materialize in reality . let us hope that we can , for the moment , be fortunate .
these migrant workers ’ taxes would help developed countries fund services for the elderly , and their remittances would help their home countries . this approach has enormous potential benefits to be gained by this approach . indeed , a modest 3 % increase in developed-country workers would give the country a larger economic boost than the elimination of every remaining trade barrier . moreover , each dollar invested into this initiative would generate nearly $ 50 in returns , making it an exceedingly effective use of scarce resources . these impressive figures emerged from a comprehensive analysis , conducted by a team of top economists tasked with my think tank , copenhagen consensus center , with assessing possible population-related objectives to identify the best global investment .
wellington – paracetamol ( known as acetaminophen in the united states ) is one of the most frequently used drugs around the world . it is the preferred drugs to relieving fever and pain , owing to its safety profile . yet ten years ago , a hypothesis was suggested that paracetamol ’s use may heighten the risks that asthma might be developed . it was suggested that a change from aspirin to paracetamol among children during the us during the 1980 ’s may have contributed to the increased prevalence of childhood asthma noted during this period . the substitution of paracetamol for aspirin , researchers proposed that the response was possibly leading to a heightened allergic immune response , thereby increasing susceptibility to childhood asthma and other allergic disorders . since then , an additional amount of epidemiological studies report an association between asthma and exposure to paracetamol in uterus , childhood , and adulthood . these studies have led to suggestion that paracetamol ’s use may represent the importance of risk
today , country is believed , to have some 60 working astronomers , more than half of all astronomers working in africa . “ south africa ’s jewel of african astronomy ” says charles mcgruder , a professor at the department of physics and astronomy at western kentucky university . in a country that is profoundly divided economically , “ what on earth benefit the poor and the downtrodden of deep space research ? ” asks physicist harold annegarn , a professor at johannesburg university . “ the answer , ” he says , is that “ partly because by support for a thriving top-level intellectual community , we can train our next generation of intellectuals . ” mcgruder , working closely with the african astronomers , agrees that a space program in the region is critical to raising careers in science and engineering in a part of the world where the most educated people still go to finance or governance .
because neither banks nor investors had enough of money to plough into networked mega-firms , mega-bank emerged in the form of the global cartel of banks and shadowy funds each with its own shareholders . unprecedented new debt was thus created to transfer value to the present in the hope of profiting sufficiently to repay the future . mega-finance , mega-equity , mega-pension funds , and mega-financial crises were a logical outcome . the crash of 1929 and 2008 , the unstoppable rise of the big tech market , and all other ingredients of today ’s discontent with capitalism , became inescapable . in such a system , calls for more gentler capitalism to be mere fads – especially in post-2008 realities that confirmed the total control over society by mega-firms and mega-banks .
a few years ago , forecasters were confident that global imbalances would reemerge once the us and europe passed the crisis . that now seems unlikely : neither the us nor china is returning to its pre-crisis growth rate nor the spending pattern . nor are the earlier trade balances in the us on the back to reemerge . america ’s trade position will be strengthened by the shale-gas revolution , which promises energy self-sufficiency , and by productivity growth that auger further re-shoring of manufacturing production . for their part , emerging markets have learned that export surpluses alone are no guarantee of rapid us growth .
both governments have cracked on nongovernmental organizations and targeted or co-opted the media . still , in what remains of hungary ’s free press , one can sometimes find credible messages alleging prime minister viktor orbán and his cronies pillaging eu funds to benefit themselves , their families and their business associates . in reality , orbán ’s government has been a subject of several investigations by the institute of european anti-fraud . despite such behavior , orbán was re-elected earlier this month , and his fidesz party , in alliance with the christian democrats ( spd ) , now holds a two-thirds parliamentary majority – enough to amend the constitution . during the election campaign , orbán ’s reign saturated the country in xenophobic , anti-semitic propaganda .
following these debates , american national institutes of medical research ( nih ) promulgated guidelines that allow the government to use stem-cell funding but , in their current form , prohibit ally-funded investigators from creating new stem-cell lines . that restriction requires that stem cell lines be obtained solely from privately-funded or commercial sources that follow the protocols mandated by the guidelines . i believe that limiting government funds to generate stem stem cells , though politically prudent , imposes significant scientific handicaps . what we know is that a variety of poorly understood factors cause embryonic stem-cell stem cells to lose capacity to differentiate into all possible cell types . this loss of differentiation capacity can be caused mainly by the type of stem cells in which stem cell lines derive the conditions that surround them in their own growth , and other variables for handling .
yet , far from accepting these contributions , the plan would largely have cut regulators out of the process . the plan , for example , would bar regulators from initiating a mega-bank bankruptcy , leaving it with discretion among the bank ’s own managers . in the nonfinancial sector , failing companies often wait too long before they are declaring bankruptcy , so lenders may have a step in to do some of the pressure , potentially even forcing a bankrupt firm . at the same time , while bank regulators have tools to pressure banks to do more similarly , their most effective is the power to start bankruptcy when it is best for the economy . taking down this tool might have severe adverse consequences .
copenhagen – policy rhetoric has shifted away from the need to respond to a “ generational challenge ” from climate change . investment in alternative energy-technologies such as solar and wind is no longer peddled on environmental grounds . instead , we are being told of the purported economic payoffs above all , the promise of “ green jobs . ” unfortunately , this does not measure up to economic realities . the copenhagen consensus center asked gürcan gülen , the senior energy economist at the center for energy economics , bureau of economic geology at texas university at austin , to assess “ science state ” in defining , measuring , and predicting “ green jobs ” creation .
it is nonetheless regrettable that the treaty 's 28 articles are very vague . it is absolutely essential that this text be coupled with a new method , adapted to the contemporary world where we live - a world where politics no longer happens in muffled debates of ministerial meetings or through convoluted communiqués . genuine engagement by civil society is the only way to stimulate two struggling governments and overcome conservatism . after all , we have entered an era , in which speed , even more than money , determines the course of events and where experimentation capacity across all sectors is essential to success . in today 's winner-takes-all economy , the bulk of the newly created wealth accrues to those who innovate the fastest .
somaliland and ethiopia , for example , are collaborating to build a gas-export pipeline from ethiopia ’s ogaden region , promise new jobs and people ’s incomes in one of the poorest and least developed parts of the world . though much is being done to help the us and africa alone , the horn of africa still can benefit from international support . but the international community needs to do just over food and medicines to famine victims and drought . the necessary , as it stands , we need growth-enhancing investments that will help to provide jobs for our peoples and to our products and resources for the world . this means focusing on promoting market economies as well as stable government , rather than subsidizing failure and failing states .
trento – the most significant result of the recent european parliament election is not that the conservatives and democrats have lost seats to liberals and greens , or that far-right nationalists have acquired fewer than anticipated . it is that citizens voted in much bigger numbers than anyone expected to do . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime ; rather , it does not augur all-out war .
we know that hitler had intend to destroy every last jewish man , woman and child . even though mass killings are not rare in history , hitler ’s extermination plan was , if not unique , certainly highly unusual . the laudable effort to prevent this from recurring however , however , had unfortunate consequences . for , in our zeal to teach lessons from history , we often learn wrong ones or distort history towards dubious ends . in a sense , the killings at srebrenica were also tainted by memories of world war ii .
democratic principles call the organizing society into such a way that both values can be realized to the greatest degree possible . but the path towards particularistic action , which does not undermine everyone ’s freedom and equality of all citizens , is narrow . that is intrinsic to democracy , and it is a duty to politicians to cope with the tensions that it is giving . and yet it is also citizens ’ duty to preserve the formal ; a political meaning of citizenship like state-interference broadens in order to ensure that everyone is well being done . this might hamper political liberty in the name of greater equality .
do such figures reflect alarming imbalances , or are they really the usual signs of a boom ? if america ’s growth rate in the coming decades remains what it has over the last thirty years , the answer is simple , and terrifying . stock market prices would be a lot too high . households would behave in an totally irresponsible manner . imbalances of magnitude would be unwarranted , indeed , unsustainable .
baverez ’s evidence of degeneration is not as convincing as he believes it is . he , for example , cites draining away industrial employment as the clearest evidence of france ’s decline . but deindustrialization is common to all advanced nations . indeed , france is better than most of its rich country ’s rivals and – unlike germany , the uk , or the us – retained the equal global market share in the industrial sector it had in the early 1970s . moreover , according to a better measure of comptetimore efficient measures , foreign investment , france does very well .
a second lesson that i learned is useful for the eu itself , one that finds itself in a world in which new powers emerge , and where all players from manila to algiers , from doha to libreville , must deal with the challenges of globalization and interdependence in everyday order . that lesson comes from the fact that europe has more cronies than it has enemies . these friends deserve respect and attention . if italy and the eu failed to grasp the need to work with non-european countries , making them feel that they were accountable and fully-fledged protagonists , efforts to establish the icc , and thus close up to declare a universal moratorium on capital punishment , would fail . i know that this is not quite new , but it is what i have in mind when i think about effective multilateralism .
the problem is that empathy for american workers is in tension with empathy for workers in mexico and china who would be worse off without jobs than their american counterparts . empathy is forcing the us kinder to people with whom the us empathize . that is good , but it also has darker downsides . trump has made his campaign speeches by using the tragic murder of kate steinle by an undocumented immigrant to stoke his anti-immigrant policies ’ support . he has not , of course , offered any similarly vivid portrayals of undocumented immigrants who have saved strangers ’ lives , even though such cases have been reported .
financial markets and global institutions , with the global reach of a global mandate , need a global macro-prudential regulator , not simply a loosely organized college of supervisors . or it could be that national policymakers do not trust the imf , given that it essentially missed its global financial crisis . if so , the fund needs a confidence win . that brings us to the imf ’s fourth role , namely using its bully pulpit to warn about the risks that large-country policies create . small countries are subject to market discipline , for any latvian says .
provided there is no downward pressure on money wages from increased competition for work , the automatic effect of technological innovation is to raise the standard of living . this is friedrich hayek ’s famous argument of any attempt by governments or central banks to stabilize the price level . in any technologically progressive economy , prices should fall except in some niche markets . businessmen do not need low inflation to expand production . they just need more sales to make the prospect more sales available .
in other words , while its population is slightly larger than that of china or india , its economy amounts to roughly half the size of china ’s , but larger than japan ’s , and more than doubled the size of india ’s . these divergences helps explain why a variety of new acronymic groupings since the n-11 ’s carved out , including mint ( mexico , indonesia , nigeria , turkey ) , and fog ( swapping in south korea for nigeria ) . i have failed to devise these groupings , but i have come together , having produced a bbc radio documentary on mint countries in 2014 . at any rate , they have been keeping pace with the earlier points i rose ; namely , that by 2010 , mexico , indonesia , south korea , and turkey , each account for more than 1 % of global gdp . eight years later , fog economies still have an opportunity to account for around 2-3 % of world gdp .
the brilliance of russia ’s innovation in information warfare was to combine existing technologies with a measure of deniability that remained just below the threshold of overt attack . america ’s intelligence agencies alerted president barack obama of the russian tactics , warning putin of adverse implications when the two met in september 2016 . but obama was reluctant to call russia public or take powerful actions for fear that russia would escalate by attacking election machinery or voting rolls , compromising hillary clinton ’s expected victory . following the election , obama went public , exiled russian spies and shuttered some diplomatic facilities ; but the weakness of america ’s reaction undercut any deterrent . and , because president donald trump treated the problem as a political call to the legitimacy of his victory , his administration also failed to take strong steps .
cambridge – this year ’s presidential election campaign in the united states is certainly unique . donald trump has rocked the way a campaign runs , how a nominee communicates with voters , and the republican party platform , with many of his positions deviating from gop tradition . but , on tax policy , trump has toed the party line – and that is , not a good thing . of course , any appraisal of trump ’s declared positions risks being rendered irrelevant within a few hours . he changes his positions with a more “ head-spinning frequency , ” repeatedly disavowing statements soon after making them possible .
this year alone , sources of discord with russia have multiplied and deepened . russia has withdraw from many nuclear agreements , most recently placing iskander missiles , that can transport medium-range nuclear devices , in kaliningrad near the polish border . moreover , the ukraine crisis is far from resolved : the minsk ceasefire treaties are not respected , and armed conflict might escalate at any time . and russia seems likely to intervene directly in the internal politics of western democracies , using leaks of sensitive documents and funding right-wing populists from marine le pen to donald trump to favor the kremlin . then there is russia ’s role in syria .
so it appears that the us is once again friends – or perhaps just resting before the dispute resumes . but the deeper question remains : why has trump repeatedly attacked america ’s oldest and most reliable ally ? why does he seem to despise the eu so deeply ? why should the us try to undermine europe , rather than seeking closer cooperation to safeguard its own economic and geopolitical interests ? trump ’s approach seems particularly striking given that china ’s rapid emergence as a strategic rival is america ’s principal national-security issue .
the report – a product of a few months of debate within the german foreign-policy and security community – identifies germany ’s current values and interests as a commitment to “ human dignity , freedom , democracy , the rule of law , as well as to an international order that is premised on universal norms . ” as gauck has proclaimed , germany ’s “ overriding strategic objective ” must be the “ preservation and continued adaptation of this order . to achieve that objective , germany will need to become a “ shaping power , ” a state with its capacity for trouble and resolution of conflicts affects all or part of the international community . the traditional determinants of states ’ power relative to other states – geography , demography , economic heft , and the military may , combined with the availability of resources and technological proficiency – remain important ; but they are often insufficient to confer genuine influence on international politics . shaping power builds relationships and invests in institutions that allow it to work well with others , and to create and mobilize “ like-minded coalitions and networks . ”
and , implicitly , he condemned gazprom ’s monopolistic policies by promising to help poland move toward diversification of its gas supplies , and that he has not been fully condemned to the european union . he has not utter a single negative word about the european union , germany , or france . with his performance , trump has managed to draw enthusiasm across the political spectrum , not just from pis-curated crowds , thanks in part to his own public greeting of opposition leader lech wałęsa , booed pis supporters , and remains a constant target for jarosław kaczyński , poland ’s unelected strongman leader . even radek sikorski , a former polish foreign minister , and outspoken critic of the pis government have concluded : “ i believe that trump ’s address is going very well . ” he has made strong allusions to poland ’s history and is very flattering to the us as poles . ”
given that all of this activity occurs in the offshore renminbi market , which is small on scale , and has just limited ties to mainland china ’s financial system – the consequence of china ’s hesitancy on financial liberalization and capital-account convertibility – the situation remains controllable . add to that china ’s other strengths – annual gdp above $ 10 trillion , a growth rate of at least four percentage points higher than the world average , an estimated three trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , a 40 % savings rate , and a massive trade surplus – and an exchange-rate crisis seems highly unlikely . but this does not mean risk . on the contrary , china has strong interest in curbing the volatility – and , given china ’s centrality to the global economy , so does the rest of the global world . the key will be to get markets and policymakers on the same page .
many polish bishops almost openly proclaim to their flock : you are supposedly listening , not thinking or arguing . belief is a thing of heart . if your behavior is good – ie , you do not drink , beat your wife , and , of course , give your money to the church – you are fine . even young men studying for priesthood receive very faint philosophical training , and it does purposefully . in a church that boasts saint thomas aquinas like “ know-nothingism . ”
just as in all democracies where the rule of law prevails , members of the specific profession , including the journalists , receive no form of immunity from such types of serious criminal charges . freedom of speech , and the press , is guaranteed by turkey ’s constitution and articles of law . for the last 13 years or so , the turkish government ’s main guarantor of freedom of expression , especially through its judicial reform , has proved to be the main guarantor of freedom of speech . moreover , it should be noted that more than 7,000 newspapers and magazines are being published in turkey with the total daily circulation of nearly five million copies . of the country ’s five most widely read newspapers , four favor the opposition over the government .
indeed , there are some signs that the authorities are just doing just that in the south china sea . nationalism could become the primary source of legitimacy for the ruling party , which can no longer point to the rising standard of living . the us and others will need to press back to ensure that china does n’t act in such a temptation . but these countries would be just as wise to signal to china that it is welcome to take its place among the world ’s leading countries if doing so responsibly and according to the rules set for all . but the bigger the policy choices will be china ’s .
in my opinion , bubbles are social epidemics , fostered by some interpersonal contagion . bubbles take shape when the contagion rate proceeds for the ideas that support a bubble . but contagion rates , in turn , depend on the patterns of thinking which are difficult to judge . big speculative bubbles are rare events , which are difficult to judge . ( little bubbles , say , individual stocks happen every time and do not qualify as the answer to the question . )
the century was just over rough on simplistic ideologies , both in the left and right . socialism had its day in court and was found to want . the great communist experiment was practically over ( saving several holdouts , like cuba and north korea ) . the ideology of the right , represented by the washington consensus of neo-liberal , market fundamentalism , was little more successful even if its failures often go unacknowledged . the past half-century showed that while development is possible , that it is not inevitable .
by picking up , and purchasing large voter data sets , campaigns can segment the electorate into strategic clusters using complex algorithms , and then deliver personalized online content to most susceptible voters . microtargeting has proved most effective not at winning over undecided voters , but at dissuading people from voting altogether . there is strong evidence to suggest that donald trump ’s microtargeting operation of the 2016 american presidential election played a decisive role in key states that he needed to win electoral college in his own . second , with intra-eu migration having increased , an estimated 15 million europeans residing on eu countries now reside in the country other than their own . like populists well knows , it is notoriously difficult to vote from abroad in eu elections , owing to difficulties registering in host countries , a paucity of polling stations , and overly complex absentee-voting processes .
simultaneously , the rest of the world may not be willing to build claims against china – at least not on scale required for a viable reserve currency . even if chinese authorities manage to achieve full convertibility and tradability for the renminbi , there is no guarantee that it would actually become a global reserve currency for the simple reason that reserve currencies are not easily fixed . true , in just three centuries of globalization , only three “ currencies ” have dominated : gold , the british pound , and the u.s. dollar . though the deutschemark , the swiss franc , and the japanese yen have all offered viable alternatives to the dollar since world war ii , often providing improved stores of value that are less prone to low inflation , none of which has made lasting inroads into the dollar ’s share of global foreign-exchange reserves . it is also perhaps no accident that global financial centers and reserve currencies have emerged largely in countries where the rule of law is well established , and where foreigners face potentially legal discrimination .
in considering which lessons of germany ’s turnaround should be applied to other eurozone countries , one needs to distinguish between what governments can do and what remains the responsibility of business , workers , and society at the large . the one area in which government clearly has public finance lies in public finance . in 2003 , germany ran fiscal deficits near 4 % of gdp – perhaps not high by today ’s standards , but higher than the eu average at that time . today , germany has an unbalanced budget , whereas the majority of other eurozone countries run deficits that were above germany ’s ten years ago . a turnaround in germany ’s government ’s public finances was due , mostly , to expenditure cuts .
and if we can no longer rely on laboratory experiments to test causality , we have to test it in the real world , using massive volumes of real-time data . this entails moving beyond the closed , and the lobbying of our ideas in society ; earlier , and more frequently than ever . to see how things work in reality , we need to construct living laboratories – that is , communities willing to try new ways of doing things ( to put it blunt , to operate as guinea ’s pigs ) . the example of such living lab is an “ open data town , ” which i launched with trento town in italy , along with telecom giant italia , telefónica , research university fondazione bruno kessler , the data-driven design institute , and local companies . what is important is that this living lab has the approval and informed consent of all involved ; they understand that they are participating in a gigantic experiment , whose goal is to create better lives .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . as the eu lacks the military or the central secret service , it has to use economic policies to advance its own geopolitical objectives . but the way that europe ’s political toolkit works in practice suggests that it is not bode well for exercising power abroad .
canberra – trade-offs are intrinsic to life . we all recognize this from our private budgets . to fix roof levels , we may have to accept a less extravagant summer holiday . when we pick cheaper wine , we may splurge dessert trade-offs . likewise , pervade environmental policy : cutting more of one pollutant , for example , leaves fewer resources to address other issues .
london – british prime minister theresa may ’s election in may for june 8 will transform the outlook for britain ’s politics , and that of its relationship with europe , but not necessarily with a vastly enhanced majority for may ’s conservative party may seem to imply . the scorched-earth defeat that conservative euroskeptics expect to inflict on britain ’s internationalist and progressive forces was symbolized by the daily mail headline on may ’s election announcement : “ crush the “ tweeteurs . ” ” but june ’s resounding victory could ultimately lead to an even more stunning reversal , such as napoleon ’s hubristic march on moscow after having demolished all opposition in western europe . britain ’s pro-european progressive forces could still snatch a victory of jaws to defeat for three related reasons . first , by bringing forward the british election , may effectively extended the deadline of britain ’s withdrawal from the european union from march 2019 until 2022 .
elsewhere , of course , this type of turmoil holds democratic safety valves . it is more than odd to argue that the rest of the world has to cope with a built-in advantage for chinese exporters , because its authoritarian political system can not cope with change . no wonder the impressive premier is thinking to favor some political loosening . from east to west , politics appears to be operating in a manner that , in an economic way , is to be diplomatically , suboptimal . then again , perhaps we are lucky that things are not worse .
princeton – europe ’s biggest unresolved issue is mobility . the process of integration was aimed at making it easier and more attractive for europeans to move from one country to another . according to this vision , the eu ’s inhabitants had the nation to lose and the continent to gain . but some recent election results indicate that they are more afraid of losing the nation . ever since the european single act of 1986 has removed the restrictions to the working force of other member countries , the continent has been a single labor market – at least in theory .
one option would be greater federalism . common political institutions , accountable for voters across the eurozone , would provide a democratic fiscal counterpart to the ecb , and help cage german power . but rising animosity within the member states , and the erosion of support for european integration in both creditor and debtor countries means that greater federalism is politically unfeasible – and potentially dangerous . the better option would be to move toward a more flexible eurozone , in which elected national representatives have more say . with no-bailout rule restored , governments would have more space to pursue countercyclical policies , responding to voters ’ changing priorities .
bogotá , lima , santiago – international economic coordination is as necessary as elusive for all . during the global financial crisis , the g20 became the primary forum to agree on core principles in areas like fiscal-policy response and the international monetary fund ’s role . by underscoring the imperative of avoiding trade protectionism and other beggar-thy-neighbor policies , it also placed some pressure on governments on what to do . in these respects , the g-20 was clearly a step forward . recently , however , as the g-20 attempted to align divergent national economic interests and economic-recovery strategies , it has been far less successful relative to its early meetings in washington and london in 2009 .
cambridge – back in august , the business roundtable , comprising chief executive officers of the americas ’ largest companies , was the business roundtable , with combined annual revenues of more than $ 7 trillion – updated its long-time statements regarding corporate purpose . it is not just shareholder shareholders ; ceos say ; their firms need to be committed to all stakeholders , including customers , staff , suppliers , community , and environmental environments . in fact , shareholders came in just the latest on ceos ’ new list . and , in his apparent exhilaration , the statement is reported to have said that he was feeling like thomas jefferson drafting the “ declaration of independence ” ( fjp ) . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for example , neurogenetics in the dentate gyrus , which has been suppressed by acute and chronic stress , is elevated by a wide range of antidepressants . still , one problem with many contemporary medications is that even treating , recurrence of major depression is very high – around 70-80 % . this suggests that physiological processes underlying depression – those that may also result in structural brain change – are not completely arrested , and thus the need for a new generation of anti-depressant medications is urgently needed . if so , new antidepressants would be required to target what appeared to be progressive neurodegenerative changes in the brain , which we infer are taking place because recurrence is so high in the face of currently available treatments . lithium , the mood stabilizer , and the neuroprotective agent , has properties we strive to do , though its toxicity make it less than ideal .
tiger parenting aims to get children to make the most of what skills they have , and it seems to lean to “ clever , ” side of “ clever or happy ” choices . this is also the view of betty liu , which blogged in chua ’s answer to chua ’s article : “ parents such as amy chua are the reason for asian-american men like me to be in therapy . ” stanley sue , a professor for psychology at the university of california , davis , has studied a suicide that is particularly common among asian-american women ( in other ethnic groups , more males commit suicide than females ) . he believes that family stress has a significant factor . chua would reply that reaching a high level of achievement brings great satisfaction , and that the only way through hard work is through hard work .
in some cases , they are individuals , like that of venezuela ’s president , hugo chávez ( and other latin american leaders ) , or italy ’s ex-prime minister silvio berlusconi . mostly , they enter the political scene from france , but manage to form a highly personalized grouping , like jörg haider and his austrian freedom party , jean-marie lepen , and his french nationalists , andrzej lepper and his polish peasant party , or prime minister robert fico , and his direction in slovakia . many other names could be added to this list . one counts that a surprising number of populist leaders have succeeded in getting themselves to power in recent years .
fewer and fewer people are bothering to marry marriage , and marriage is considered to be less and less lifelong . families are having fewer and fewer babies , and more and more children are born from wedlock . therefore , one of the “ unintended consequences ” of the bill may add welcome recruits to married ranks even if these recruits are of historically unusual forms . after much soul-searching , i have voted for the bill , even though without an acute feeling that i have been striking a blow to freedom . there is a clear status benefit to a minority ; no obvious harm goes to majority ; and the long-term consequences are ubiquitous .
ronald reagan was a master of the well chosen episode . setting the right example is another critical form of communication for leader . anticipating a skeptical public reaction when singapore raised government officials ’ salaries in 2007 , prime minister lee hsien loong announced forging the issue of himself up . in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis , some business executives voluntarily cut salaries as a means to communicate concern about their staff and the public ’s opinion . during the 2008 presidential election campaign , obama proved to be an talented communicator .
london – current antibiotics are becoming increasingly ineffective , not only in combating common illnesses like pneumonia and urinary tract infections , but also to treating a range of infections , such as tuberculosis and malaria , that are now now at risk of becoming incurable . with g-7 leaders committed to addressing “ antimicrobial resistance ” ( amr ) in a recent joint declaration , it ’s time for an even more more inclusive g-20 – and for china to chairs the group for the first time – to take the battle to the next level . failure to address amr will affect everyone , regardless of their nationality or their country ’s level of development . indeed , by 2050 , ten million people could die , owing to amr ; up from about 700,000 today , with the united states and china each housing of some one million sufferers . at that point , an estimated $ 100 trillion in global gdp will already be lost .
sydney – the appointment of five provincial-level chinese communist party chiefs in early december serves as a reminder that the ascension of the next generation of leaders of china ’s leadership will assume power in 2012 can be china ’s most important development in its politics since deng xiaoping ’s reign began in 1978 . the upcoming generation of leaders , at least in the world , will come first with little or no personal memory of the turmoil and hardship endured during mao zedong years ago . forgetting that history could doom china to repeat past mistakes ; but , for better or worse , it could also ease constraints and establish its leaders free . all five appointees were born after the founding of the people ’s republic in 1949 . two , hu chunhua and sun zhengcai , are only 46 years old in 1949 .
finally , there is the scenario of chaos . a cyber superbug , for example , destroys the networks on which our way of life has come to depend , leading to economic , demographic , and environmental collapses in the future . in that set of possible outcomes , one points out : the insecurity of europe ’s role in the future global system is at stake . to prevent inexorable decline , europe needs to reach out of clear choices on three fundamental issues . first , eu leaders must determine how the crisis will be addressed by the eurozone .
but bank deleveraging ( brought about by stiffer regulatory imperatives ) , together with negative interest rates , has caused financial institutions ’ equity prices to plummet , driving further pro-cyclical destruction of value through price deflation , rising illiquidity , and crowded exits . past experience taught china ’s true engineers that the only way to escape deflation is through painful structural reforms – not easy money and competitive devaluation . the question , then , is whether the american and other reserve-currency countries will share the burden of maintaining global currency stability through agreement resembling the 1985 plaza accord in which the top five economies agreed to depreciate the american dollar against the japanese yen and the german deutsche mark . if not , why would asia ’s net lenders , especially china , continue to fund speculation against themselves ? the us dollar is a safe haven , but savers need liquidity still lack an impartial lender of last resort .
and a good traffic deal – with new cars smuggled through tunnels under the “ philphi route ” that runs along the egyptian border . but real life also is traumatic and limited . we saw buildings – not only hamas headquarters – still in rubble . homes riddled with bullet holes are riddled . up to 8 hours per day , there has been no electricity .
many central bankers like the proverbial general who plans to fight the recent war are now in the offing . but , unlike the backward-looking army strategy , flawed monetary policies produce inevitable damage , rather than simply worrisome risks . despite having conquered inflation , central bankers continue to fight it , and , because it can avoid the most recent economic threat – global deflation . falling prices paralyzed japan ’s economy a decade or so . china and hong kong have seen prices plummet recently too .
even if american leaders now absents himself from the jcpoa , it has only two means of blocking the implementation of an agreement between iran and the rest of the world . the first would foment war . this is unambiguously on america ’s agenda , especially with the neoconservative doyen john bolton back in the white house as national security adviser . the world must steadfastly resist another ruinous american military adventure . extraterritorial sanctions are a second way that the us could kill the jcpoa .
presumably , it was in response to that impasse that china pressed ahead with the establishment of the aiib . the size of china ’s economy – and its resulting diplomatic weight – is a fact that it can be no longer wished away . a strategy of containment worked well for america and its allies during the cold war , but it can not apply today without flexibility and strategic common sense . critics of american policy note that even if america thwarted the effort to establish the aiib , china would continue to project power in asia , and around the rest of the world , one way or another . channeling that influence through the newly created international organization , they argue , will be more likely to temper raw power grabs .
tel aviv – us president-elect donald trump has said much about foreign affairs without actually claiming anything at all . his muddled statements offer little insight into what kind of foreign policy that he actually pursues , and there is little reason to believe that when his approach becomes clear , it is what the united states – or the world – needs . trump is a businessman , not statesman . he thinks in terms of instant gains and loss – a worldview exemplified in his declarations that the us must contribute more to its security alliances . at a time of evolving challenges and rising threats , adhering to this narrow-minded , isolationist approach , no one is unlikely to do any good .
in 2009 , business accounted for 75 % of r & d funding in japan , 73 % in south korea , 72 % in china , 67 % in germany , and 60 % in the us , whose companies account for the largest r & d investors in terms of absolute purchasing power , spend more than twice as many japanese firms as they do . but business investment as a share of gdp changed very little in the us over the past decade , while it rose rapidly in many other countries , including china , singapore , south korea , and israel . globally , multinational companies are the us ’s largest business-sector r & d funders in the us and other countries . multinational companies , for example , headquartered in the us or elsewhere , accounted for about 84 % of private-sector investment ( non-bank ) r & d in america in 2009 , about the same as ten years ago . and american multinationals continue to locate around 84 % of their research and development activities , often in innovations around research universities .
beijing – measured by the percentage of people living in its cities , china ’s urbanization rate currently stands at around 48 % , according to formal statistics . given that the city dwellers ’ share of dwellers was just 18 % just 30 years ago , that is remarkable progress . but it is still unsatisfactory , because most other countries in the world at a similar stage of development experienced faster urbanization than industrialization . china ’s urbanization lagged far behind that of industrialization , which now stands at around 70 % when measured by the percentage of the labor force , whose income comes mainly from non-farm activities . another striking difference between china and some other developing countries has been the fact that chinese cities , large and small , lack any sign of significant urban poverty or slums .
implementing democracy , with or without regime change , was the only alternative to chaos and the rise of fundamentalism . today , iraq may be on the verge of civil war between shiites and sunnis . iran under a new , more radical president is moving the bangladestibly toward possessing a nuclear capacity . a free electoral process brought hamas to power in palestine , and the unfortunate episode of the danish newspaper cartoons illustrated the almost combustible nature of relations between islam and the west . all of these developments pave the way for new interpretations .
this has made it easier for lula – especially to buck his socialist allies and distance himself from chávez – to have as much recently as march 2008 , backed chávez following colombia ’s brief incursion into ecuador , which killed farc commander raul reyes . calderón ’s uncompromising line on drug dealers in mexico , an unrelenting offensive that follows uribe ’s precedent to deal with the farc , also helped because economic growth has muted domestic opposition . the emerging uribe-lula-calderón troika has geo-strategic clout for a moment , because things have begun to change in cuba ever since fidel castro formally handed over his presidency to his brother , raúl . latin america is obsessed with this transition , and uribe , calderón , and lula has no intention of letting chávez lead the way . on a recent visit to islamabad last january , lula visited a string of prominent brazilian businessmen and signed trade and investment deals worth $ 1 billion , and the government signed the $ 3 billion of the colombian government .
before our eyes , tragedy is unfolding , one in which the players and their aims are obvious . what is not known is how many more behaves this sorry political spectacle will have , and thus when – and how – the end of it . the first act began in fall in 2013 , when then-president viktor yanukovych duped the european union and its leaders by refusing to sign a long-planned association agreement . instead , in exchange for a stockpiles of cash and cheap oil and natural gas , he chose to have ukraine entered a customs union with russia . russian president vladimir putin seemed to have achieved his political goal , namely bringing ukraine , which was drifting towards europe throughout the post-soviet period , firmly back into the kremlin ’s sphere of influence .
though the number of participants increased from the original 15 or 25 to the united states , most countries do not have a voice . but there is a greater question lurking behind the gge : can norms truly restrict state behavior ? most experts seem to agree that the global cyberspace treaty today would be politically impossible ( though it makes such proposals at the un ) . but , beyond formal treaties , normative constraints on states also involve codes of conduct , conventional state practices , and shared expectations for due behavior among a group ( creating common law ) . in scope , these constraints can vary from global to plurilateral .
monetary policy , of course , has redistributive effects as well . think of the very different effects of the interest rate on borrowers , versus on lenders . monetary policy , of course , is an even more awkward , indirect , and imprecise way of selecting winners and losers than of fiscal policy . independent central banks can occasionally be painful for politicians , but at least they can be used as scapegoats when necessary-a role whose political advantages outweigh the costs of losing control over useful tools . these considerations should guide the choice between what follows the european stability pact .
unlike the us , china did not suffer as a liquidity shortage and a credit crunch during the global financial crisis in the first half of the century . low interest rates and non-market interference have thus driven , rather than demand from firms , fueled explosive credit growth in the first half of 2009 , surpassing its full year target . had the commercial banks been allowed to base lending decisions solely on economic considerations , credit and money supply would have grown more slowly , limiting the risk of soaring bad-loan ratios , stalled enterprise reform , inflationary pressure , and the resurgence of asset bubbles as excess liquidity enters equity and real-estate markets . indeed , china ’s housing price has been skyrocketing in recent months . too generous in helping to revive real-estate demand , the government has been overwhelmed by the fear of falling asset prices on an economic upswing that was too cautious in dealing with bubbles when they reappeared .
now a constitutional reform supposedly aimed at “ promoting turkey 's eu membership ” would have further curb the military ’s role as guardian of the secular state and enhanced government control of the judiciary . erdogan ’s islamic revolution has also broadened into an educational system with introducing a significantly religious curriculum . to put turkey back on a strategic shift forward , new law recently made the arabic obligatory in schools . more symbolic , erdogan ’s vision blow will be difficult to imagine . erdogan believes , by exercising turkey ’s capacity for mediation , he will renege on the burden of his ottoman forbears as the “ guarantors of peace and security ” in the ma“ ma“ maaulq . ”
he remained skeptical about notions of irreversible progress . for the better , he was able to emerge from practical initiatives not from sunday speeches . european integration thus had to be shaped by real-world policies and institutions rather than decree . so he and giscard created the european council ( composed of heads of european governments ) , now an important player in the european union ’s institutional set-up . they pushed forward the idea of monetary integration that came a generation later fruition .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . for britain , prospect has suddenly become much clearer and better than at any time since june 2016 . while the likelihood that prime minister theresa may soon ousted may ’s government could create an impression of a constitutional crisis , the reality is that political conditions are certain to stabilize once the period for renegotiating the uk-eu relationship extends again from new , highly soft , april 12 deadline until the end of the year or beyond .
it no longer dreams of becoming europe ’s “ united states , ” and jacques delors ’ suggestion of “ the united nations of europe ” has left too ambivalent if not deliberately unambiguous , to be effective . after the irish “ no ” may well be the union ’s vision of salvation in nato as the “ coalition of the willing ” ? can the most determined pro-integration europeans leave the pack without being paralyzed by a coalition of the unwilling ? iran “ no ” , of course , is not the equivalent of an eu of what the afghan quagmire represents for nato . still , it also represents a major setback and challenges to the institutional , political , and even psychological nature of the eu .
what is called for is a dose of realism as well . the struggle against the islamic state is not a conventional war , but it is a matter of real legitimacy . we may be unable to eradicate or destroy it any time soon because it is as much a network and a notion as an organization and a de facto state that controls territory and resources . indeed , terrorism is and will continue to be one of the scourges of that era . the good news , though , is that the threat posed by the islamic state to the middle east and the rest of the world can be scaled back dramatically through sustained , concerted action .
failure that , the left will come to power and reverse years of reform and progress . but a currency board will also help to initiate financial intermediation of the benefit of small and medium-size firms starved of capital by experiencing recurrent crises and bad credit . small and medium-size firms need to become part of mexican capitalism . mexico ’s economy has had good years to do today ; not very tough enough to achieve given booming america ’s next door and great liquidity to global capital markets . mexico ’s own skillful achievement at rebuilding opec ( boosting the value of its oil exports ) contributed to good performance , as did its determination to hang on to and widen mr. illa ’s predecessor , president salinas .
it demands a sense of social responsibility that accompanies and cushions the painful process of modernization . people who remain suspended between a missing past and a future have not yet regained the need for assistance . such assistance will yield no immediate results , but awareness of the medium-term – which means readiness to confront it by delaying immediate gratification – is also a sign of the liberal order . fighting al qaeda is thus not a war of any kind . it is partly self-defense , partly an assertion of law 's rule in difficult circumstances , and partly a constructive effort to redress the causes of frustration .
groups like the syrian national council are loose associations of individuals and groups , many outside syria . these are groups criticizing the obama administration and the others for their failure to present the united front , formulate a credible agenda or be seen as a viable alternative to the current regime . yet those groups have limited sway over local opposition groups within syria , which are equally diverse and divided . it is among these groups that radical islamists have gained a foothold . fear of an additional islamist takeover comes as a second leading argument against overthrowing assad , but the longer it stays in power , the greater the gains made by islamists on the ground .
but this was not a case for over-regulating and over-reaching . on the contrary , 30 years in a financial deregulation , made possible by capturing the hearts and minds of regulators and politicians on both sides of the aisle , gave the narrow private-sector elite – mostly on wall street itself – almost all of the upside of the housing boom . the downside was shoved in the rest of society , particularly the relatively uneducated and underpaid , who are now losing their homes , their jobs , their hopes for their children , or the all over . these people did n’t trigger the crisis . but they pay for it .
the recent downturn in france ’s industrial output has generated large trade deficits , undermining the competitiveness of small , medium-size enterprises . with unemployment standing at around 11 % , with record-high 3.3 million us workers registered as jobless in october . simultaneously , politically , france is impeding its government ’s pursuit of tough reforms . french leaders have demonstrated an inability to communicate effectively or apply past experience when analyzing current threats . instead , they are resorting to diversionary tactics by engaging in overblown rhetorical battles about minor controversies .
mumbai – just as india gears up for its general election next month , it has some cause for celebration : extreme poverty is finally in retreat . in 2012 – two decades after the government launched a series of economic reforms aimed at opening up the economy – india ’s official poverty rate reached 22 % , less than half that rate in 1994 . but it is time to lift india ’s aspirations . escaping the abject destitution , while important milestone , is not much the same as achieving the standard of living and sense of economic security . to that end , much remains to be done .
as soon as march to war began , not much of the room had left for diplomacy . yet , far from making space for diplomacy , trump ’s adviser sebastian gorka recently reported that the press was “ thinking that secretary tillerson is discussing military matters is simply nonsensical . ” but why should n’t the america ’s top diplomat have significant influence over military matters ? unless that changes soon , us officials may , just as then-british prime minister david lloyd george wrote of world war i “ muddle through ” ( “ through ” ) into war yet again . south korean political leaders also have to avoid being swept by this intensifying war rhetoric .
alemán , too , is facing a rebellion , in his liberal constitutional party ( plc ) , led by former us treasury minister eduardo montealegre , a presidential hopeful popular in a liberal party party . if alemán blocks montealegre ’s candidacy in the plc , and pushes him to form another political party , ortega ’s chances of winning the presidency are sharply rising . business interests that finance political campaigns face a difficult dilemma : is ortega preferable to align with a plc dominated by a corrupt alemán or advocate new democratic power , and risk helping ortega win ? though the three-way race is pure speculation at this point , it is clear that it offers ortega the best of every electoral world . so tempting is ortega ’s likely help to rehabilitate ortega ’s arnoldo alemán , betting that freeing him will serve his political interests .
friedman and keynes both agreed that successful macroeconomic management was necessary – that a private economy in its own might well be subject to unbearable instability ­, and that strategic , powerful , but limited government economic interventions were indispensable for maintaining stability . but , while keynes did , the key was to keep the sum of government spending and private-sector investment stable , for friedman ’s keynes was to keep the money supply – the amount of purchasing power in readily spendable form in firms and households – stable . a relatively minor , technical difference , in effect , means . a difference in opinion that rested on various judgments about how the world works , which might ( and ultimately was ) be settled with empirical research , you might say . and you would be half right .
but speculators are thinking ahead , shifting out of commodities today to expectations about future higher interest rates in 2015 ; the result was to push ahead next year ’s price decline forward to this day . fourth , the channels , the exchange rate , has already been functioning . the prospect of us monetary tightening coincides with the moves by the european central bank and the bank of japan toward enhanced monetary monetary stimulus . the result has been the appreciation of the dollar against the euro and the yen . in the first half of this year , the euro is down to 8 % against the dollar and the yen , down 14 % .
i was also conscious that the un human rights council was making repeated condemnations of israel over the last two years , but with little attention to large-scale human-rights violations in other countries . this pattern of action and inaction by the council gave greater credence to those who believe that the un ’s supreme human rights authority is inherently anti-israel . i decided that i was not able to make that mission for these reasons . i am aware that goldstone , a dedicated and unimpeachable human rights lawyer and an advocate , shared similar concerns when he was initially approached . but he was able to work with the council ’s president to secure an agreement he felt confident that his mandate will permit the un to be interpreted in such a way as enabling his team to address the actions taken by both parties to the conflict .
in the early cold war , communism and the soviet union possessed considerable soft power . many communists led opposition against fascism in europe , and many believed that communism was a wave of future prosperity . soviet soft power , however , was undercut by stalin ’s exposure to stalin ’s crimes in 1956 , and by the repression in hungary in 1956 , czechoslovakia in 1968 , and poland in 1981 . though under communism , which aims to establish a class justice system , lenin ’s heirs maintained domestic power through a brutal security apparatus involving lethal purges , gulags , wide-ranging censorship , and ubiquitous informants . the net effect of these brutal measures was a widespread loss of faith .
coronado , california – most humans do not think of charles darwin as a psychologist . in fact , his work revolutionized the field . before darwin , philosophical speculation shaped our psychological understanding , so did the theory of life that it is possible to understand the field . but even great philosophers – plato , aristotle , hobbesian , hume , locke , kant , schopenhauer , nietzsche , and others – could describe only current patterns of mental events and behaviors ; they could not account for their causes . darwin provided a profound understanding that evolution influenced the shape of our brains as strongly as it has our bodies ’ shape .
indeed , evaluating the impact of any research project will be difficult . as marc kirschner , a professor at harvard medical school , has pointed out in a thoughtful editorial in journal science , “ one can be able to recognize good science as this happens , but significant science can be viewed only as rear-view mirror . ” even preeminent researchers may underestimate the importance of their findings at a time of receiving these findings . when salvador luria , ma university of microbiology professor , received the 1969 nobel prize on physiology or medicine , he made the point eloquently , sending a humorous cartoon to all who congratulated it on prizes . he depicted an elderly couple at the breakfast table .
and , having fully implemented ( he did in 2027 ) , it will raise taxes on a majority of americans in the middle ( second , third , and fourth quintiles ) . the american tax code was already regressive long before trump ’s presidency . indeed , the billionaire investor warren buffett , one of the world ’s wealthiest men , famously complained that he was wrong to pay a lower tax rate than his secretary was . new legislation makes america ’s tax system even more regressive . it now is widely recognized that rising inequality is a key economic problem in the united states , with those at the top capturing almost every quarter of gdp gains over the last quarter-century .
a critical question now confronts policymakers is whether gig workers should be classified as independent contractors , or as workers of a platform company with which they have employment contracts and for whose customers they provide services . california , a state with more than two million independent contractors , has tried to settle that question with a new law , california assembly bill 5 , which codifies legal criteria for determining how to categorize workers . applying the three-part “ abc test ” testing that the many states are already using to determine whether a worker is eligible for unemployment insurance , ab5 makes it much harder for companies to classify their workers as independent contractors rather than employees . to win political support for ab5 passage , legislators exempted multiple kinds of independent contractors – such as doctors , dentists , and real-estate agents – on the grounds that they set their own compensation rates to communicate directly with their customers and earn at least twice the minimum wage . but ab5 covers even more than 400,000 workers , who drive for platform companies such as ride-sharing services
making matters even worse , the modi government has invoked section 7 of the rbi act , enabling it to issue directions that are directly to the central bank governor on matters of public interest . the modi administration ’s willingness to go along such lengths suggests that more than interest rates are at stake . in particular , the government is unhappy with rbi measures to clean up india ’s banks , many of which are burdened by large-scale non-performing assets , and are blocking risks from the construction process in other parts of the financial system . these steps are squeezing state-owned banks ’ ability to lend to politically connected clients . to be sure , government ministers can not come out of the right .
as any democratic politician , disappointed expectations may well be the toughest electoral opponent for all . just ask former french president nicolas sarkozy , of course , that he is not the only one to win the support of french president nicolas sarkozy . abe , of course , has not faced with the kind of sky-high expectations that sarkozy and , for that matter , us president barack obama did . nor is that abe ’s 2012 campaign lacked ambition ; he has set out a bold economic-reform agenda and pledged to boost japanese global influence . but , after two decades of leaders , who – except junichiro koizumi – promised little and achieved less , japanese voters had little reason to expect abe to follow through on his pledges .
those individuals who carry at least one copy the gene variant that does not permit the body to metabolize plavix have a 300 % higher risk that clotting a stent . this variation of the genome is exceptionally common , with 30 % of individuals of european ancestry and more than 50 % of asian ancestry . in many such patients , doubling the dose of plavix , checking the platelet function with point-of-care trials to assure suppression can override the lack of a response . there are alternative drugs , such as prasugrel and ticagrelor , which can be used instead of plavix to bypass that problem . the story of interferon , given a single year for patients from the hepatitis c virus , is particularly striking .
after all , war , and in colombia and elsewhere often unites nations while peace divides them . beyond the borders of the colombian armed conflict , the consequences of a genuine end would be felt . if chávez ’s venezuela has become a narco-state in which regime acolytes are drug lords , this reflects their privileged relations with the farc . consequences would also be felt in mexico , where drug cartels tearing up the country . west africa , too , would be affected , becoming the main transit point on south american medicines headed to europe for the last few years .
at the heart of the budget is the realization that cutting poverty demands both rapid economic growth and targeted investments that aim to the poorest in the poor . rapid economic growth is to be built on the private sector , including foreign direct investment . thus , the budget supports critical areas of market-oriented reform and growth promotion , including supply-side measures to the financial sector , to promote exports , and liberalize foreign direct investment . the key , however , is that the budget does not simply rely on “ trickle-down ” economics to raise standards of living . the second pillar of poverty-reduction efforts is targeted investment to the poor , particularly for the rural poor .
indeed , exaggerating the threat of islamist terrorism while downplaying the threat of right-wing populism , could well play into russian president vladimir putin ’s arm directly . the struggle to prioritize threats is not exclusive to the west . countries are attempting to figure out who should be contained in the middle east , but they are not the main among them . among the frontrunners are the islamic state ( isis ) , iran , and israel . to israel ( and saudi arabia ) , there is an obvious iran .
cambridge – us treasury secretary steven mnuchin is hemmed in on any issue . domestically , he is trapped between the promises he has made ( like mnuchin ’s rule , for example , that taxes will not be cut for the rich ) , the actions of us president donald trump ( whose tax plan includes cuts for the rich ) , and simple arithmetic ( which makes the administration ’s conflicting pledges impossible to fulfill ) . but even on the international scene , where america ’s treasury secretaries typically enjoy more latitude and esteem , mnuchin is likely to have a hard time time in office . after all , the trump administration has made it clear that it intends not to fulfill the global leadership commitments overseen by mnuchin ’s predecessors . given trump ’s belief that international negotiations are merely a forum to make unilateral demands , how could mnuchin – who , like his boss , lacks government experience – persuade other countries that adherence to common rules and norms such as open trade is in everybody ’s interest ?
cambridge – how was one worth assessing a deal reached in paris this month at the united nations climate change conference ? no sooner was the deal announced on december 12 than the debate erupted . some avid environmentalists were disappointed to say that the agreement had not committed firm to limiting global warming to 1.5 º celsius above pre-industrial levels by 2050 . but such a commitment would not have been credible . what emerged in paris was , indeed , better , because the negotiators were able to agree on practical steps in the right direction .
muslim professionals , fearing for their safety , began moving into ghettos . muslim charitable organizations , often financed by saudi arabia and other arab countries , began to move to areas of social life where the state failed to dismally , especially education . as a result , for the first time , thousands of muslim boys enrolled in school . sadly , they were educated in religious seminaries espousing a deeply intolerant , fundamentalist brand of islam . with discrimination soon cutting across class lines , rising numbers of indian muslims began to look for ties with muslims elsewhere in the world .
today , the private sector employ more of the workforce of china than state-owned enterprises ( soes ) . with a fraction of soes ’ resources , private firms employ much of the proletariat , produce goods demanded by proletarian consumers and , because of their superior performance , protect those proletarian savers ’ interests by actually paying back on their bank loans . why most pundits miss out on protesting workers not in zhejiang provinces and guangdong , but in the northeast ’s socialist bastions is an enigma . workers do not protest menial jobs in capitalistic wenzhou , but against no jobs in the socialist shenyang . the government can not pay unemployed workers their pensions , because socialism has bankrupted its finances .
poorer or smaller countries can hardly dream of winning the european championship as steaua ( romania ) , red star ( serbia ) , or nottingham forest ( now languishing in the english third division ) once did . but , while we can see inequality and exclusion in club-level football , the opposite is true for competitions between national teams . the average winning margin among the top eight world football national teams has steadily decreased , from over two goals in the 1950 ’s to about 1.5 goals in the 1960 ’s , 1970 ’s , and 1980 ’s , and just 0.88 goals in world cup 2002 . the same is true for any game played at the final tournament , not just those among the top eight national teams . the decrease in margin of winning is all the more impressive because the world cup has grown from 16 to 32 national teams – many of them new and rather inexperienced .
in fact , the us budget presupposes the best of all worlds , rather than the blue chip , where interest rates remain low but the gdp growth of an ambles , along at around 2 % . with real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates remaining near record lows , a marked rise in long-term growth , as administration forecasts would become historically anomalous . in the omb document , real interest rates on $ three-month treasuries are expected to stay below 1 % over the decade . furthermore , in that projection , the term premium disappears almost entirely . at present , ten-year us treasuries offer over three times the yield on three-month us treasuries ( ten-year ) treasuries .
but that antagonism reflected the personalization of politics achieved by berlusconi , as did an institutional feature he abolished the political system . one of his government ’s recent acts was to replace the majoritarian electoral system introduced in 1993 , with proportional rule . a new electoral system changes incentives by politicians and could induce the return of coalitions and unstable governments . this outcome would be accelerated if , as is likely , berlusconi himself has been to distance himself from politics in his upcoming electoral term . under new electoral rules , seats are being allotted to parties in share to the votes , but a special provision that induces parties to forge pre-electoral deals : a preelectoral coalition that wins the most votes receives a seat premium that ensures a comfortable majority in the chamber of deputies ( the lower house ) .
and it has had some success – to the detriment of economic growth . though the current 7 % rate is comfortable , it is far below the double-digit rates that prevailed before 2008 . given the need for further economic restructuring – and , given long-standing demographic trends , to lower the labor supply – pre-2008 growth rate is unlikely to pick up again . that is fine with li , who recognizes that structural transformation and industrial upgrading – rather than an unsustainable credit-led growth model – are the key to achieving high-income status . but there is a more to assess wen ’s stimulus than the growth/reform trade-off .
the challenge for climate action demands much deeper public-private cooperation to boost green investment . we need to ensure that infrastructure is built to cope with the increased effects of climate change , and to develop explicit global standards for disclosing climate risks that investment projects pose . how will cities cope with increased flooding risk , for example , and how will agricultural land be kept productively like droughts grow more severe ? big and small investors alike should be aware of exactly how their money could be affected with changing climate patterns . here , public investment institutions like the european investment bank can assist in adaptation in many ways .
" over half of this battle is taking place on the media battlefield [ for ] we are in the media battle in the race on [ muslims ’ hearts and minds ] . ” speaker was not a certain public-relations executive , but osama bin laden ’s chief lieutenant , ayman al-zawahiri . terrorists skillfully adapted to fight wars in today ’s media age , but , for most , america and other democracies ’ governments did not . consider this that violent extremists hold their own “ media relations ” committees aimed at manipulating elite opinion . they project and designs headline-grabbing attacks using every means of communication to intimidate and subvert the collective will of freedom .
exemplary and punitive damages , of course , have discouraged behavior toward society in statute books . but philippine courts have refused to resort to the exploitation of such damage awards , as a tool for controlling behavior , particularly of businessmen . recent attempts by filipino lawyers to prosecute civil-rights claims for environmental tort and human rights abuses before american courts prove just how desperate filipino claimants seek redress against those who have been negligently or with impunity . all of this explains why sulpicio lines , the star princess princess , remain in commercial operations despite its many lapses . simply put , philippine courts have not made it expensive to keep seaworthy vessels sufficiently expensive .
the american congress is considering legislation that permits the trump administration to impose sanctions on european firms that take a role in project even as such firms are actually contrforced to see work through . and according to gerhard schröder , former german chancellor angela merkel , who is now chairs at the pipeline project , us ambassador to germany , has acted more like an “ occupation officer . ” all told , the trump administration ’s disruptive behavior has left the french and german governments furious . but , beyond fueling anger , trump ’s attacks on other countries ’ sovereignty are adding momentum to a new push for european political unification . it is no secret that europe is in the midst of an internal economic crisis – the consequence of the saddling southern european countries with high inflation prior to the 2008 financial crash , which severely diminished their competitiveness within the euro system .
everything has abolished controls on their shared borders and adopted a common visas policy for non-member citizens . it is certainly handy to treat the flight from zurich to oslo as a home travel with no passport controls to contend with departure and arrival . and it is doubtless convenient to drive from berlin to barcelona without having to wait in line at each border border crosses . indeed , that convenience is probably why just two eu countries ( ireland and the united kingdom ) have chosen outside the schengen agreement . but the refugee crisis has exposed the flipside of the schengen agreements – namely , the difficulty of monitoring national and eu territory without border checks .
europeans have become dependent on such corporations , all of which are based in china or america . and yet europe has focused more on enforcing shared values within the tech sector – namely , by strengthening the regulation of data privacy – than on developing a long-term strategy to become competitive . defining such a strategy could help europe to identify areas for mutual accommodation . a third area with potential for strategic cooperation is development assistance and investment , both in the global poorest and most fragile states . such cooperation is essential to combating terrorism , human trafficking , and migration .
simply adding liquidity at the same time that current austerity policies will not reignite the spanish economy . so , too , in the us , smaller banks that largely finance small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) have all but forgotten . the federal government – under both president george w. bush and barack obama – has allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to prop up mega-banks , and , while enabling hundreds of these crucially important smaller lenders , failing . but lending would have been inhibited even as banks become healthier . after all , small businesses rely on credit for credit , and the value of the real economy – the main form of collateral – continues to be down by one-third since its pre-crisis level .
the world learned that the lesson after the 1973 arab-israel war was a war of the united states . arab oil-exporting countries embargoed oil sales to the us and the netherlands to punish them for support from israel . but the destined oil for the us and the netherlands was shifted to other countries like japan , while oil destined for other countries found its way to the us and the netherlands . oil is a fungible commodity , and markets have clear at the common price . when a dust settled , it turned out that american , dutch , and other importers all suffered roughly the same shortfall , and paid the same damaging high price .
the world has been horrified by graphic images of the latest crackdown by myanmar ’s military junta . but the bullets and clubs unleashed on buddhist monks have been working . monks have retreated , and eerie normalcy has returned to yangon ( rangoon ) , myanmar ’s principal city , and its former capital . that crackdown continues beneath dark obscurity . when the sunni sets in myanmar , fear rises .
the underlying issue is whether europe ’s monetary union needs more integration to manage crises like greece ’s , or whether it can maintain the current approach , founded on national responsibility and sanctions to those that are violating the rules . germany ’s finance minister , wolfgang schäuble , has proposed that those sanctions should include expulsion from the eurozone – something that was never envisaged in the 1992 maastricht treaty . nor has , of course , been envisaged by greece to confront its current economic trauma . admittedly , the country ’s economic performance after the oil shock of the early 1970s was poor , marked by slow gdp growth , high inflation and unemployment , massive fiscal deficits , mounting debt , declining currency , and inadequate infrastructure . indeed , until the mid-1990s , the government ’s lack of macroeconomic discipline and its tendency to succumb to populist demands and vested interests were responsible for many of the country ’s economic weakness .
these include flush toilets , automobiles , electrical power , long-distance communications , a modern information-processing process , and so forth . again , it would have been quite unbriously expensive – or simply impossible – to achieve similar capabilities in the earlier era of history . in the late roman empire , only affluent aristocrat could have purchased a nomenclator – the slave tasked with memorizing names and faces , reminding aristocrat of them when social occasions demanded it . today , having the basic smartphone is superior to having a dozen entourage or even thousands , the nomenclator-like assistants . in thinking about the future of growth , and the opportunities that continued growth open for all human beings , we should reflect on how far we come .
insofar as this is true , the united states will not be replaced as the dominant power unless and until it abdicates that role . that may sound a simple matter , but it will have far-reaching consequences for the coming century 's international order . vital interests guiding chinese policy are internal modernization ; ruling regime political stability and survival ; and the country 's unity ( which includes taiwan ) . these interests are not likely to change long enough . as a result , as a result , china will become the largely inward-looking superpower , which – precisely for that reason – will follow its foreign-policy interests entirely unsentimental manner .
the government pursued fiscal austerity , but not enough , to make up for the vagaries of the market . the global financial crisis that followed east asia ’s crisis set off a series of major exchange-rate adjustments . the dollar , to which argentina ’s peso was tied , increased sharply in value . meanwhile , argentina ’s argentina ’s neighbor and mercosur trading partner , brazil , saw its currency depreciated – some say it became vastly undervalued . wages and prices plummeted , but not enough to allow argentina to compete effectively , especially given that many of the agricultural goods that constitute argentina ’s natural comparative advantages face high obstacles , in entering rich countries ’ markets .
when such debt-fueled bubbles bursts , its effects are transmitted directly to the real economy through household-sector balance sheets , with the fall in consumption contributing to the decline in employment and private investment . it is far harder to find circuit breakers for this dynamic than to say , that caused by balance-sheet distress in the us financial sector . yet , by appearing unwilling to learn the lesson from either episode , china has learned the lessons . not only have they not succeeded in mitigating the risks , underscored in the 2007 meltdown ; in fact , new retail investors introduce into the market ; they have exacerbated them , by allowing , and even encouraging , those investors to accumulate leverage through margin purchases . making matters worse , when the current stock-market correction began in early june , chinese regulators relax margin-buying restrictions , while encouraging state-owned enterprises and asset managers to purchase more stocks .
nevertheless , i doubt that it has been at hand . seventy years ago , the us was emphasizing its fallacy : john maynard keynes . when shocks in the system emerge , agents do not know what will come next . faced with this uncertainty , they do not readsimply their spending ; instead , they refrain from spending until the clear , sends the economy into tailspin . it comes as a shock , rather than adjustment , that spreads throughout the system .
the financial sector has imposed huge externalities on the rest of society . america 's financially polluted world with toxic mortgages and , in line with a well-established “ polluter paying ” principle , taxes should be imposed on it . besides , well-designed taxes on the financial sector might help alleviate the problems posed by excessive leverage and too-big-to-fail banks . taxes on speculative activity might prompt banks to shift greater attention into performing their key societal role in providing credit . in the longer term , most economists agree that governments , particularly in the advanced industrial countries with aging populations , should be concerned with the sustainability of their policies .
but public reaction to them , together with the recent spike in oil prices , may well account for good measure for the changing behavior of market psychology . attitudes toward risk change over time , and events like ahmadinejad ’s and peres ’ remarks may precipitate such change . so while these things happen in ways that are difficult to quantify , it is perhaps that analysts should heed ahmadinejad ’s words as having done carefully to those of bernanke in an attempt to understand the direction of global stock markets . indeed , economists might not be tempted to focus on the public mindset and how it interacts with changing prices , the world ’s news stories , and speculative dynamics . after all , doing so implies the less predictable effects of economic events ( and the less omniscient economists do ) than they like to imagine .
new york – in their efforts to pass a bailout plan for the american financial system , bush administration officials invoked the specter of the great depression of the 1930 ’s . but , for most asians , the economics armageddon is far more recent . the asian financial crisis of a decade ago brought banks , corporations , and governments to the knees . the bonfire sparked thailand ’s baht ’s collapse in the summer of 1997 . contagion soon spread across east asia , with ripple effects on serial currency devaluations reaching as far as russia and brazil .
of course , plato ’s purpose in a dialogue is not defining piety : if socrates knows about a better define than the unacceptable ones offered by euthyphro , he fails to unveil it . rather , plato ’s point is to show that euthyphro is ignorant of his own ignorance about piety , and that euthyphro ’s aim thus ca n’t really know that prosecuting his father is in fact the right thing to do . the knowledge that emerges from this kind of self-examination is crucial in all decision-making . one should know that the moral character of any action is contemplating . and to know that one needs to be equally well aware of what one does not know as of which one does not .
one billion people worldwide lack access to clean water and more than two billion lack adequate sanitation , and the world ’s poorest people have not access to clean water . furthermore , water scarcity means food scarcity . after all , the agricultural sector accounts for 70 % of global freshwater consumption ; with water in short supply , farmers are less able to feed the world ’s population . this year , china experienced its worst drought in a half-century , affecting millions of acres of farmland and causing power shortages to persist . in north africa , the encroaching desert has displaced many people , exacerbating tensions among farmers and herders .
brazil ’s deregulation of agriculture and encouragement of r & d has enabled brazilian agriculture research corporation to pioneer more than 9,000 technology projects , including the design of tropical soybean strain that brazil ’s climate can thrive . efficiency soared , marketing brazil ’s crop yields on par with those of the developed economies . the era of “ easy ” gdp growth driven by the massive army of young workers is ending . emerging economies must confront the resulting growth challenge head-on by pursuing sweeping policies , incentives , and established practices to boost productivity . recognizing this imperative is the first step .
since the g-20 meetings in cannes last november , for example , europe has been increasing its firewalls by € 200 billion ( $ 252 billion ) , restructured greek debt , taken steps to strengthen its banking and banking regulations , established rules for fiscal discipline , and implemented a range of labor – and product-market reforms . but the magnitude of the challenges confronting europe implies an urgent need for far more resolute reforms . confident that europe can act together to meet these challenges , we will continue to support such efforts , because europe ’s stability and growth matter for us all . second , we urgently need a clear message from the g-20 that every of its members are delivering policies for strong , sustainable , and balanced growth . to be meaningful , this message must be backed up by action : g-20 members need to show that their policies are clearly channeled toward restoring economic growth and creating jobs , and that they will be responsible for meeting their commitments at full time .
they must work with bureaucracies that are naturally disinclined to have their agendas prioritized lest they conclude anything less than number one . whenever we prioritize , we do not merely say where we should do more ( which is good ) and where we should not step up our effort ( which is considered cynical ) . but not talking about priorities makes the need to prioritize the transition . instead , choices become merely less clear , less democratic , and less efficient . refusal to prioritize , deal mainly with the most publicized problems is flawed .
the point is not to get lost in endless comparisons or arcane mathematics , but to underscore that it is possible – and , indeed , necessary – to have a meaningful debate about inequality , based on concrete figures with the goal of setting clear targets . if there is a choice in the right target , the debate needs to be better informed . as it stands , surveys show that people tend to believe that inequality is lower than it actually is , but still higher than what level they would consider ideal . that is true in most countries – including in the us , where inequality is among the world ’s highest – though there are a few countries , like norway , where people have a more realistic view . correcting these misperceptions will change people ’s opinions of redistributive policies .
those sanctions have crippled iran ’s economy similarly . similarly , denying any bank that does business with russia ’s bank or company access to america ’s financial system would create the kind of economic chaos last saw in russia immediately after communism ’s fall . ordinary russians should be made to understand that allowing putin to take office – whose primary claim to leadership is that he ended the penury of its first post-soviet years – to continue his imperialist aggression will cost them dearly . third , obama should emphasize to china their stake in eurasian stability . putin might regard the soviet union ’s disintegration as a tragedy , but for china it was the greatest geostrategic gift imaginable .
against this backdrop , it is not surprising that the financial sector ’s pay skyrocketed . the city of london , lower manhattan , and a few other centers became money-making machines that made investment bankers , hedge-fund managers , and private equity folk immoderately rich . university leaders like me have spent much of our time persuading them to recycle a portion of their gains in old schools . things have been different in the last two years . many financial firms have shrunk their balance sheets dramatically , with some gone entirely out of business .
indeed , the policy has emboldened pro-russian politicians who love nothing more than to see the americans kicked out of kyrgyzstan . horse-trading around the base has been intense . in february ’s meeting , america ’s ambassador to kyrgyzstan asked her chinese counterpart about reports that china offered $ 3 billion in payments to kyrgyzstan if the kyrgyz shut down american bases . the two diplomats were conversing in russia . “ visibly flustered , ” ( the chinese ambassadors have temporarily lost his ability to speak russia and start spluttering within the chinese to the silent aide diligently accepting the notes right behind him , ” according to confidential us diplomatic cable , obtained by web site wise.org .
but , ultimately , the best way to address them and avoid a resurgence is by ensuring that economic opportunities are available to the who are determined to try . social assistance with none of the hope for individual improvement is bad enough . it is time for france to start questioning its economic model . in a recent statement about burning suburbs , chirac proclaimed that “ all of the lessons will be to be drawn out of this crisis when time comes to and order were restored , as well as by much courage and lucidity . ” but these lessons imply reforms that are more far-reaching than chirac is ever likely to envisage .
we believe that they are quicker than we in acquiring and processing knowledge , because they have been cultivated with tools and techniques that are lacking at the age of their time . we entrust them with drivers in the direction of our country to new levels of growth and development , which is precisely why we have now nominated a cabinet minister in their age and created a special youth council . we have also learned from hundreds of thousands of dead and millions of refugees in our region that sectarian , ideological , cultural , and religious bigotry only fuel the fires of rage . we can not , and will not , allow this in our own country . we need to study , teach , and practice tolerance – and to instill in our children , both through education and by a sense of practice .
we know that ultra-low real interest rates generate massive credit expansion . in countries with higher price growth than in germany , but with the same borrowing costs , this can produce no anything but overheating , greater inflation , and even lower real interest rates . to stem this flood of credit-induced demand with fiscal policy on the one hand is not impossible , and it is absurd to try . how do you tighten fiscal policy to push up more than 100 % of gdp in credit-induced spending power in just three years , as occurred in ireland in 2004-2007 – and in a democracy sporting a fiscal surplus , as ireland ’s is ? to ask politicians in a democracy with large surpluses to raise taxes or to cut benefits or public investment through the enormous magnitude needed to stave off disaster strikes is to touch on reality .
but the bottom line is that constitutional change can only come with unanimous agreement , with a few member governments starting with the uk resisting any overtly federalist agenda . in the past , no question , france ( under president mitterrand ) , along with germany ( under chancellor helmut kohl ) , would regularly press the case for closer integration despite british reluctance . today , however , france and germany seem to be less united on a common european strategy ; indeed , their commitment to european integration looks less forceful . as a result , the french government is reluctant to force a confrontation with the british if there is any chance of softer compromise in the future . the problem is that this conspiracy of avoidance may not work , and fischer ’s significance is that he is the first government minister in office to say so in public even if he pretends to say it in personal capacity .
enthusiasts describe it as a new mark of modern industrial policy that can help push brazil beyond its traditional role as a commodity exporter . critics call it the wrong efforts to create only more distortions and retard growth . in my view , the intellectual case for activist policies – as made , for example , by dani rodrik and ricardo hausmann of harvard – has been strong . markets for innovation and new ideas are working poorly , and governments can help to address such market failures . but rodrik and hausmann also show it that getting such policies right implies exacting demands .
those among native populations at their lowest levels of incomes and education will invariably be worse off if they are to compete with a large number of young male immigrants . to be sure , gender imbalances are not the only driver of anti-immigrant sentiment , let alone populism on a more broadly . but evolutionary psychology , which stresses competitive competition for females , can add another dimension to our understanding of these phenomena , while helping us to predict when , and where civil strife may erupt . there is little that can be done to alter gender imbalances . yet , while the problem can not be “ solved , ” understanding it might help to limit harm , not least by enabling leaders to avoid policies that are either not helpful or exacerbate tensions further .
new haven – codependency never ends well in personal relationships . judging by the united states ’ ever-escalating trade war , the same is true of economic relationships . while i published a 2014 book in codependency on the us-china economic relationship , i would be the first to concede , it is stretch to generalize insights from human psychology to assess national economies ’ behavior . but striking the similarities are , and prognosis all the more compelling , because the world ’s two largest economy sink into a dangerous quagmire . in its most fundamental terms , codependency occurs on one of the extremes of relations dynamics – whereby two partners draw more from each other than from their own inner strengths .
but how is this identity defined ? this is the point at which many begin to use the language that defines europe by distinction , indeed by the us -- europe as an anti-america . throughout the cold war , what was then the soviet union provided the raison d’être of europe ; in the age of globalization , it is america 's . comparing and contrasting the two sides of the atlantic has a long pedigree . european corporate and american commerce , european profundity , and american materialism -- these are ancient and tired themes .
without raising national saving – highly unlikely under the current american budget trajectory – trade will simply be shifted away from china toward america ’s other trading partners . with this trade diversion likely to migrate to higher-cost platforms around the world , american consumers will hit the functional equivalent of the tax hike . ironically , trump has summoned lighthizer to the us , the veteran in japan ’s 1980s trade war , to lead the charge against china . unfortunately , lighthizer looks like clueless about the macro argument today as he was back then . in both episodes , the us was in denial , bordering on delusion .
hollande ’s government and prime minister jean-marc ayrault has strong majorities at all levels of executive and legislative power , giving italy a rare opportunity to act . if it can renew europe ’s model at its home , it will be able to project success in much more widely , particularly in southern europe , in turn reinforcing confidence and faith in the eu , especially among the young generation . the french center-left must lead in the conceiving vision for a europe in which solidarity and equity reinforce long-term economic strength . finally , along with the united kingdom among european countries , france retains more global role than germany so far has acquired . whereas the un security council has become outdated in its structure , it still plays a crucial legitimizing role ; and france , not germany , is a member .
deep reform – focused on quality and performance rather than enrollment and diplomas – is needed to transform the learning process , unleash the productivity growth that the young labor force requires . the third challenge , instrumental in meeting the first two , will be to reinforce regional arab solidarity . many outsiders underestimate or purposefully minimize the arab world ’s “ arab ” “ arab ” “ arab ” “ . ” but the revolutions of 2011 showed that a strong sense of identity , a common language , and a much shared history bind arabs together , despite vast natural-resource disparities , political circumstances , and average per capita incomes . how other can one account for the current revolt in tunisia , in particular , has led to popular revolts from north africa to the arabian peninsula ?
who has the more flexible job ? with a boss or a company that better supports reconciling work and family obligations ? attitudes about male caregiving are starting to shift . only a third of millennial men ’s career believe in traditional gender roles . america ’s largest tech companies are beginning to compete for talent by offering paternity leave .
muted wage growth boosts their competitiveness , and underutilized labor and capital are redeployed . how fast that will happen depends partly on private-sector flexibility and dynamism . but it also depends on government ’s ability and willingness to provide bridging function for the shortfall in aggregate demand , and on the pursuit of reform and investment that boost long-term growth prospects . unless public-sector deleveraging is the complete growth policies – and not – why is there so much attention to fiscal austerity and so little action ( as opposed to lip service ) on growth and employment ? several possibilities – rather than mutually exclusive – come to the mind .
by contrast , when the personal situations of a wide range of individual americans are examined through european eyes , extreme individualism – representing the key part of american optimism – translates into an unacceptably large social scandal . “ cities of tents fill with the victims of the economic crisis , ” read one headline a month ago on the front page of a massachusetts american newspaper . journalists report tragic stories among middle-class americans losing their jobs and homes , potentially putting lives at risk without any social protection . who , if you lose , is the health insurance policy that has been coming with your job ? it ’s wrong to assume , as some ultra-loose marketers do , that the absence of a social protection makes you stronger .
warsaw : recently poland experienced the characteristic -- and typically unfinished -- political debate . it focused on whether " free " educational attainment should make the constitutional right work . a free , or because its postcommunist advocates prefer to call this a " not paid " education , it means education in schools and state-owned universities ( but not in private schools ) . only by raising the issue to a level of constitutional right , say postcommunists , can guarantee free and equal access to education be maintained . because their domination in parliament , postcommunists ' intransigence on this point forced other political parties participating in drafting poland 's new constitution to kowtow themselves to their positions .
at the same time , governments must clarify the responsibilities of national water agencies and improve water-related institutions ’ water-related capacity at all levels to institute large-scale unconventional-water programs . best practices should be made clear , innovations designated and tested , and knowledge and experience shared . at the same time , the private sector has the role to play in shifting toward unconventional sources of water – a role that is needed to extend beyond current efforts to tap desalinated water and urban greywater and wastewater . finally , local institutions , nongovernmental organizations , and local communities must be mobilized – through public campaigns showcasing the benefits of harnessing their potential to unconventional water resources . sustainable development targets 6 calls on universal access to clean water and sanitation ; they must be called upon .
as a result , targeting china has enormous political appeal . so , what can be made of the may 19 agreement ? beyond a tit-for-tat truce , there are few real advantages . us negotiators have been fixated on targeted cuts of around $ 200 billion in the bilateral trade imbalance over a two-year timeframe . given the scale of america ’s multilateral problem , that is largely meaningless , especially given the massive and ill-timed cuts in tax rates and federal expenditure , which increase america ’s enacted in the last six months .
the unprecedented economic expansion that has lifted millions out of poverty has been compounded by widening income disparity , as have severe environmental damage . as a result , asia now has two faces : a prosperous and growing middle class , and those who have yet to reap the benefits of rapid economic development in the region – and whose health and well-being adversely affects acute problems like air and water pollution . in short , the key challenges facing asia today are to sustain economic growth – at the lower but still enviable , rates – and improving the quality of its people . asia , for its part , needs strong , inclusive , green , knowledge-led growth , which implies the need to rebalance the sources of economic dynamism to emphasize domestic , regional , and south-south asia ’s “ south-south ” demand . economic relations with the west would not be diluted by this shift .
berkeley – a central insight into macroeconomics is a fact familiar with john stuart mill of the first third of the nineteenth century : there can be a large supply gap and demand for fairly many of all currently produced goods and services and types of labor if there is an equally large excess demand for financial assets . and that fundamental fact portends a great difficulty . a normal supply gap and demand for a subset of currently produced commodities is not a serious problem , because it is balanced by excess demand for other currently produced commodities . as the industries suffering from inadequate demand shed workers , industries that benefit from surpluses demand hire them . the economy rapidly rebalances itself , and thus returns to full employment – and does so with the configuration of employment and production that is better adapted to current consumer preferences .
indeed , initially , russian liberals welcomed budanov 's case as an indication that the country could address accusations that war crimes in chechnya were perpetrated . last month , however , the military prosecutor accepted colonel budanov 's argument that he was temporarily insane when he killed the girl ; so acquitted budanov on charges of murder . ( the charges of rape , for some unclear reason , have already been dropped . ) the prosecution then began speaking out as the chechen sniper family , from snipers . outraged , defense minister sergei ivanov dismissed a prosecutor who seems prepared to ababate the patriotic " hero " onto all remaining charges .
once a team gets into place , its members will need to figure out how to make trump ’s plans for an economy that has – by necessity , not choice – been overly reliant on unconventional monetary policies . the plan must recognize that during that protracted period of monetary expansion , both financial markets and resource-allocation have been distorted , exacerbated wealth inequality . the good news is that the incoming administration can draw on measures formulated during obama ’s tenure , but that gained little traction because of an highly polarized and dysfunctional congressional politics that characterized a majority of obama ’s eight years in office . measures such as infrastructure investment , tax reform , and job creation address imperatives such as infrastructure . but , of course , the us does not exist within a vacuum .
washington , dc – just over 100 years ago , the united states ushered the world in rethinking how big business worked – and when such firms ’ power should be constrained . in retrospect , breakthrough legislation – not just for the us , but also internationally – was the sherman antitrust act of 1890 . the dodd-frank financial-reform bill about the passage of the american senate has done something similar – and long overdue – for the banking sector . prior to 1890 , big business was widely viewed as more efficient , generally more modern than small entrepreneurship . most people saw the consolidation of smaller firms into fewer , large firms as stabilizing developments that rewarded achievement , and allowed more productive investment .
tokyo – when was the last time you sat down and wrote a letter ? i do not mean email or text news ; nor would i count a dictated message to a machine or personal assistant . no , in the case of donald trump , i mean an old-fashioned “ dear donald ” or dear “ hillary ” letter . the reason that i ask is that , every week after serving as president of the united states , 65,000 people did write such letters , it was n’t the most important thing that obama was asked . according to a recent feature in guardian , a white house staff team to select the ten letters a day to pass alongside a president who would then react to them personally that evening .
perhaps they tell pollsters they were prepared to pay higher taxes for better provision of public services and a more compassionate attitude towards the poor . but they ultimately would do precisely what they did in each previous four elections - the votes of a party that proclaimed “ each man for himself ” - vote on a party that declared “ every man for himself . today this pseudo-marxist theory for economic determinism has been refuted once and for all . in 1992 , john major ran for re-election amid the economic slump of the 1930 ’s , a vicious monetary squeeze , and the aftermath of rapid inflation . economic determinists predicted that he had not stood a chance , either .
transactional leadership is more effective in stable and predictable environments , whereas an inspirational style is more likely to emerge in periods of rapid and discontinuous social and political change . the transformational goals and inspirational style of leader like mahatma gandhi in india , or nelson mandela in south africa , may dramatically influence outcomes in fluid political contexts , particularly in developing countries with weakly structured institutional constraints . american foreign-policy formation , by contrast , is severely constrained by institutions like the us congress , the courts , and the us constitution . we would thus expect less transformational leadership to be expected to be the first step . but , even the american constitution ’s ambiguous focus on the powers of congress and the president ’s administration in foreign policy is ambiguous .
berlin – it has been 30 years since the united nations environment and agriculture organization launched the tropical forest action plan , the first global intergovernmental initiative to halt forest loss . since then , deforestation has continued unabated , and the latest international effort to stop it – an initiative that is known to reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation ( redd + ) – looks no more likely to be effective . far from protecting the world ’s forests , the most notable outcome of those agreements has gone , ironically , to manufacture the reams of the expensive consultancy reporting . redd + has been created as part of the united nations framework convention on climate change , and the agreement that it will govern its implementation is expected to complete during the un conference on climate change in paris . but , if world leaders are serious about halting forest losses , they should instead abandon redd + and replace it with a mechanism to address the underlying drivers of large-scale deforestation .
donald payne , the leading member of the united states house foreign affairs committee , and ana gomes , the european union member states from portugal and head of the eu ’s observation team in 2005 elections , has sought to bind non-humanitarian support more closely to ethiopia ’s press freedom and other human-rights violations . britain and some other european governments have responded to an post-election crackdown by temporarily withholding aid . but ethiopia represents a dilemma for anyone concerned about human rights and democracy . cutting off aid could have calamitous humanitarian consequences for the nation ’s 80 million people as well . it could also destabilize a fragile region , sparking fresh wars with neighboring somalia and eritrea .
to keep people working longer , a healthy long-term solution is crucial . that is why , in the us , the health-care industry must play a meaningful role in the effort to address the challenges of population aging . old age must be viewed not just as an inevitable stage of life , but as an opportunity for health-care companies and systems to help people thrive . to this end , health-care companies should shift their research-and-development efforts towards conditions prevalent among the older patients , including chronic diseases such as diabetes , heart disease , glaucoma , rheumatoid arthritis , and cancer . such efforts are also vitally important to find ways to stem the more effectively the deterioration of people ’s productivity and independence , by preserving their physical strength , mental acuity , and senses like hearing and vision .
the second great transition-funding opportunity is in blending funding or collaborative schemes that raise private capital for public goods . these initiatives bring together a wide array of public and private stakeholders , including multilateral organizations , to finance projects with deep environmental and social impacts . moreover , a blended approach helps scale up and de-risk projects , as well as optimize their funding . the tropical landscapes finance facility – developed in indonesia in cooperation with the un environment program – is a good example . the initiative combines private , public , and philanthropic funds to maximize environmental and social benefits .
emerging-market currencies were initially tied to this distress only when foreign investors began pulling out of their money . then panic spread to borrowing markets , money markets , and the currency markets , highlighting the vulnerabilities in many developing countries ’s financial systems and corporate sectors , that experienced credit booms and borrowed short and into foreign currencies . countries with large current-account deficits or large fiscal deficits and large short-term foreign-currency liabilities have been the most fragile . but even better-performing ones – such as brazil , russia , india , and china – now are at risk of a hard landing . many emerging markets are now at risk of severe financial crises ; in many cases , they may have been at risk .
and if there were a renewed referendum , british voters probably would have to decide between an orderly brexit and left in the eu , because nobody dare to offer the hard brexit as an alternate . until recently , a reversal of british voters ’s 2016 decision to leave the eu seemed unlikely . but bercow and eu interventions have opened up the new game altogether , dramatically increasing the chance that brexit might n’t happen . that would foil financial-market speculators who had bet on a withdrawal , and it is good news for both the uk and the eu . almost three years ago , british voters did n’t really know what they did when they decided a narrow majority to leave the eu .
beijing – forty years ago this month , china ’s leaders laid the country on the path to reform that produced history ’s most dramatic economic transformation . by 1976 , mao zedong had been killed by two years earlier , and the newly rehabilitated deng xiaoping succeeded in stamping his vision for economic development and modernization on the third plenum of the eleventh central committee , held in december 1978 . in the four decades since , china transformed itself into an economic powerhouse , portending an equally momentous makeover in the global economy and geopolitics . with china ’s reforms beginning in agriculture , where the crushing burden of state controls were relaxed . through a dual-track pricing mechanism , farmers were given market-setting incentives .
jerusalem – in the wake of misguided american policies , the threat of another military confrontation hangs like a dark cloud across the middle east . the united states ’ enemies have been strengthened , and iran – despite being branded as a member of the so-called “ axis of evil ” – has been catapulted for regional hegemony . iran could never achieve this on its own , certainly not in such short order . hitherto latent rivalry between iran and israel has thus been transformed into an open struggle for dominance in the middle east . the result has been some surprising , if not bizarre , alliances : iran , syria , hezbollah , hamas , and america ’s shia-dominated iraq are facing israel , saudi arabia , and much of the other sunni arab states – all of it feeling existentially threatened by iran ’s ascendance .
fascination with liberal freedom came in poland and elsewhere at a strange moment . old social structures were destroyed , socialist customs and habits vanished overnight , former norms and unwritten rules were abandoned . in poland 's postcommunist social revolution ( less often noted than in poland ) , families and communities were undermined and ( at least in poland ) the church was too engaged in politics to help itself . in the right years , people were left to withstand change gales . to be free but alone , especially as habits of interdependency become ingrained .
crisis must also not become an excuse to create new institutional formats , which compromise the delicate balance between various eu institutions , the balance that – through the appropriate adjustments – has proven to be the test of time . of course , the crisis highlight the need to strengthen eu institutions and instruments for joint action and coordination . we need final , and complete ratification of the lisbon treaty to have institutionally and internationally stronger europeans we need . nor should today ’s uncertainties become a pretext to call into question the need to continue and complete the eu ’s enlargement process . expanding the eu ’s space for freedom and democracy , peace , stability , and prosperity , especially across south-eastern europe , are in every european citizen ’s interest .
a commonly cited example of outgoing administrations ’ purported economic management has been their sugar-pricing policies . powerful sugarcane cooperatives , led by prominent upa supporters , ostensibly drove the government to fix extravagant prices and write off its sugar-price sugar farmers ’ bad debts , leading to overproduction . instead of eliminating such a system , as was expected , modi ’s government augmented its sugar-export subsidies to support higher output , raised sugar imports to discourage foreign competition , and increased sugar-based sugar-based ethanol that must be blended with gasoline . his motivation is not hard to discern : his bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) , hopes that , such concessions will help it to cede control to maharashtra , india ’s leading sugar-producing nation , from upa at the upcoming state assembly election . that aim explains just another policy reversal , as does the upa .
berlin – the german social democrats ’ ( spd ) existential crisis can no longer be treated in the way a typical party crisis . the party captured only 9.7 % of the vote in bavaria ’s regional election this month , trailing both the populist alternative für deutschland ( afd ) and the greens in national opinion polls . with another important regional election fast approaching in hesse , polls indicate that the spd will still lose more support , though not nearly the same as that of bavaria . the spd and the christian democratic union/christian social union ( cdu/csu ) have stood as the twin pillars of german politics since world war ii ’s end . yet with the spd declining , germany is moving from a de facto two-party system to one within the multiparty system in which neither unified party plays a dominant role .
while russia alone will not freeze accounts , president putin ’s meaning was clear : it would be better for all parties if that money were brought home and invested in the national economy . achieving this end would have to be achieved , russia must create a secure and attractive investment climate . most important , if we are to reverse capital flight , the government must persuade individual savers that it can deposit money safely and withdraw it on demand . how can the government expect to mobilize domestic investment in the same way that ordinary russians hold their savings – $ 50 billion according to most estimates – at home ? russia ’s people need to be convinced of political stability – that nobody will suggest nationalization , for example , as happened repeatedly during the eight months that i have been prime minister .
without gorbachev and his singular courage , the stream of events across europe during the fall of 1989 would have been unthinkable . for with gorbachev ’s ascendance , more and more people in east germany took heart to stop being afraid of their repressive regime . realizing that the realities of east germany were not fixed in stone after all ; to achieve change , which many brave dissidents and proponents of civil liberties imprisoned behind a wall demanded for so long . their commitment to the injustice of the communist regime is for me one of the best chapters in german history . opening hungary ’s borders , which fall and seek refuge by eastern germans at the german embassies in prague and warsaw , has already shaken the communist and stasi rule to its foundation .
as a result , some of them – though relatively speaking not many – commit long – and often unsafe journeys to the developed world . and yet , when they arrive at the doorstep of the rich world , a welcome they receive has become increasingly mixed as manufactured panic over the supposedly massive influxes of “ dangerous ” outsiders closes the space for a humane , pragmatic response . responsibility-sharing – the foundation in the modern international system for refugees protection – is being replaced by responsibility-shifting , typically onto countries that are least capable of dealing . now is time to re-boot a global effort to safeguard refugees , as well as to protect the refugees . what is needed is a comprehensive strategy with the global reach , reflecting the sweeping vision that inspires and engages governments , the aid community , businesses , development institutions ( gpe ) , civil society , faith groups , academia , sports and arts .
munich – the euro crisis has passed through six phases so far . it is worth recalling them , because they reveal how policymakers stumbled along , trying to put fires without keeping sight where their chosen paths are guiding them . markets currently remain calm , but that is the only starting point of the seventh phase of the crisis , during which europe becomes mired in debt . so far , the sequence has been as follows : one seventh phase of the crisis is enhanced moral hazard , stemming from debt run-up .
between 1985 and 2005 , boomsters had made often-predicted predictions that exaggerated the chances of big positive changes in both financial markets ( such as the dow jones industrial average of 36,000 ) and global politics ( such as tranquility in the middle east and dynamic growth in sub-saharan africa ) . they assigned probabilities of 65 % to rosy scenarios that materialized at only about 15 % of the time . in the same period , doomsters performed even more poorly , exaggerating the chance of negative change in all the same places that boomsters accentuated the positive , plus a few more ( i still await canada ’s impending disintegration , nigeria , india , indonesia , south africa , belgium , and sudan ) . in doing so , they assigned probabilities of 70 % to dismal scenarios , which materialized only 12 % of the time . second , once again , as the skeptics warned , over-claimers rarely pay sanctions for being wrong .
the economic challenges of brexit would have been overwhelming . the main economic argument for brexit – that britain ’s huge trade deficit is an obscure weapon for the eu would lose more than britain from the breakdown in its trade relationship – flatly misfits . britain would have to negotiate access to the european single market for its service industries , whereas eu manufacturers would automatically enjoy virtually unlimited rights to sell whatever they want in britain under world trade organization rules . margaret thatcher was the first to realize britain ’s specialization in services – not just finance , but also law , accountation , media , architecture , pharmaceutical research , and such forth – makes membership in the eu one critical market . it makes little economic difference to germany , france , or italy , whether britain is the eu ’s member – or simply in the wto itself .
answering them will require a debate that transcends issues like the separation of powers and judicial independence and elucidates the appropriate relationship between politics and religion . for that to happen , understanding the historic backdrop of the current crisis is crucial . when turkey became a democracy in 1950 , its previous system by secular kemalist elites attempted to harness military power and the bureaucracy in an effort to take control of elected governments . in fact , with the turkish army explicitly backing a civilian government ’s functioning in the 1960s , 1971 , 1980 , and 1997 , each time in the name of defending secularism . in response , various religious groups , including gülen ’s movement , encouraged their followers to take positions in both the bureaucracy and the army .
berlin – during the protracted night , negotiations over greece on july 12-13 were something fundamental to the european union ’s fractured . europeans have been living in a different sort of eu since then . what changed that night was germany that europeans have known since world war ii ’s end . on the surface , the brexit negotiations have been about averting a greek exit from the eurozone ( or a “ grexit ” ) , with dire consequences that follow for greece and europe ’s monetary union . at a deeper level , however , what was at stake has been the role of the european union of its most populous and economically powerful country .
yet the rise of arab military coalitions raises serious concerns , not least because of arab military interventions – unlike those pursued by the west in places such as bosnia , kosovo ( and even libya ) – does not contain any promising precedent . such interventions were typically aimed at empowering proxy political power over their military and political rivals rather than averting humanitarian disaster , or institutionalizing un peacekeeping conflict-resolution mechanisms in the wake of war . egypt ’s military intervention in yemen in the 1960s is a case in point . in late 1965 , egyptian president gamel abdel nasser sent 70,000 soldiers in yemen to support a republican coup against the royalist powers . despite using banned chemical weapons against yemeni guerillas from 1963 to 1967 – first to the intra-arab conflict – egypt has failed to achieve its objectives .
the reform process was led by oecd countries and opened up to developing countries only after this initial package was unveiled . today , 125 countries participate , forming a group called the “ inclusive framework . ” beps was undoubtedly an important step toward tackling some of the egregious tax-avoidance strategies used by multinational companies . it initiated , for example , country-by-country sharing among tax authorities on these companies ’ profits and tax payments . unfortunately , this norm will apply only to very large transnational corporations .
and even eliminating accelerated depreciation would not broaden the tax base sufficient to fund a rate cut to 28 % . likewise , while limiting the deductibility of net interest for corporations as so many others in the developed world , would broaden the tax base and discourage excessive reliance on debt financing , this would increase the fiscal burden on major investments in physical capital , which are often debt-financed . reducing the tax preferences of non-us corporate business actors ( such as partnerships ) that pass their income through to individual individual returns would also broaden corporate-income tax bases . pass-through companies now account for more than 80 % of net business earnings ( by far the top share in developed countries ) . several of these entities are very large and profitable , enjoy the same legal gains as corporations .
israel ’s disengagement plan presents the evacuation of gaza settlements as an end to 37 years of occupation . but , at the same time , israel insists that gaza will not possess any attributes of sovereignty , and will continue to govern existing arrangements , covering most aspects of the security and civil administration . that means continuing to enter gaza at the time and maintaining control over border crossings , airspace , and territorial waters . and will the israeli military withdraw from israel ’s land strip along palestinian-egyptian border . these conditions rule out any possibility to forging an security plan that would gain support from all factions , including hamas .
nearly 60 years later , american agricultural employment peaked at 53 % of total employment . in fact , today it stands at less than 3 % . in fact , since the 1980 ’s , most countries have experienced huge declines in agricultural employment , with the most poor experiencing a decline in agricultural employment . in somalia , like portugal , malaysia , turkey , and indonesia , the share of farm employment has declined by more than 20 % . to others , like greece , italy , bulgaria , hungary , estonia , poland , the philippines , and sri lanka , the decline has exceeded 10 % .
islamabad – as pakistan gears up to its parliamentary election on february 18 , many observers hope that a vote would usher in an era of stability and calm by lending popular legitimacy to government . but sometimes democracy is best served by the refusal to participate . the upcoming general election , under the illicit provisional constitutional order of the judiciary ( pco ) , has implemented following president pervez musharraf ’s emergency on november 3 , is a case in point . to be sure , contesting the elections would provide my party with a tremendous opportunity to take matters to the people . in fact , my party ’s support has been mounting with opinion polls now indicating that it is the second favorite in the frontier province ( pdp ) – and gaining ground in any other province .
and it is good news that the official sector pays more attention to joblessness – a very good thing . yet , sadly , this shift will not resolve the problem that eats away at any society ’s social fabric . like bernanke and others , it is as if it is thought – and as much as bickering politicians seek to dump policy responsibilities on others – central banks do not have the proper tools to deal with the component of the unemployment crisis that results from under-investment in education , training , and physical capital . likewise , they can not correct debt overhangs , repair broken home funding , or address the challenges of medium-term fiscal-reform on their own . the best that central banks can do is to buy time , if at a time of rising costs , for other policymaking entities to get their act together .
indeed , china ’s dam builders targeting most of the international rivers that flow beyond chinese land . most of china ’s internationally shared water resources are located on the tibetan plateau , which it annexed in the early 1950s . unsurprisingly , the plateau is the new hub of chinese dam building . indeed , china ’s 13th five-year plan , released this year , calls for a new wave of dam projects in the plateau . moreover , china recently cut back the brahmaputra river ’s tributary flow , the lifeline of bangladesh and northern india to build the dam , as part of the major hydroelectric project in tibet .
washington , dc – ten years after lehman brothers ’ failure , we know that multilateral action was crucial in preventing an even worse global recession from becoming a full-fledged one . back then , it was the global financial system that was tottering . nowadays , the global trading system that is in jeopardy is the global system . in the last 70 years , multilateralism has served the world well . much to its credit , the united states eschewed retribution and reparations after world war ii .
schools were multiplying as attendance surged , and the country grew apart , too . other public services were improving as well , with parents believing that their children would lead more prosperous lives than they and previous generations had . this was certainly true of my parents , who sacrificed many to raise their nine-children . not satisfied when , in the 1970s , their older sons became communists , strongly opposing hafez al-assad ’s brutal regime , president bashar al-assad ’s regime . but this was hardly farfetched transitions in a city-state where people assumed new identities – such as nasserist , baathist , islamist , or communist – downplaying their regional and tribal origins .
this results in high turnover , owing to overwork , and increased need for health-care workers to fill sorely needed positions . gcc policymakers have been right to focus on increasing access and quality health care subsidies . but the equitable allocation of health-care services across native and migrant populations is often a thorny policy issue . and now policymakers must also devote more attention to health-care workers alone , ensuring that they are properly educated and trained for challenges waiting for the region . training programs in gcc national health systems today are failing to focus almost enough on innovation or systems to improve effectiveness and effectiveness .
if the army collapses , this is algeria [ and ] france , which collapses . ” the crucial moment came with de gaulle , in military uniform , going on television to demonstrate his mastery over the new medium . “ well , my dear and old country , ” here we are once again confronting a heavy test , ” he said . insisting that self-determination was the only way ahead , he called on the army to reject even passive association with the insurrection and instructed it to re-establish public order . if the state bowed before the challenge it faces , “ france would be no more than a poor , broken toy floating on the ocean of uncertainty , ” he warned .
just when the world has reached an emerging consensus that ahmadinejad was just an instrument of supreme leader ayatollah khamenei , ahmadinejad has appointed the vice president against khamenei ’s wishes ( though he later tracted that appointment ) as a president . what we do know with certainty is that the regime is being divided . such divisions will allow new forces to emerge in iranian society . so all means should be found to achieve an agreement that reaches iran ’s society at all levels . iranian students should be encouraged to visit and study in asian universities to discover how confident young chinese and indian students are about the future – potentially well , in many ways , causing them to reflect on why young iranians do not share that optimism .
how can one be assessed by the contribution of light infantry against providing critical enablers , such as helicopters or air-to-air refueling tankers ? over what time do you make your calculations ? common financing , with every member paying a share in response to their gdp , is one tool to make greater equitable burden-sharing possible . traditionally , nato applied the “ cost ” policy lie where they fall ” : each member picked up all the costs of operating contribution that it had made to alliance operations , the us . during the last few years , nato ’s funding policies were updated to enable the common finance to be used as an incentive to provide certain theater-level capabilities , like medical facilities , handling airports , and supplies , or intelligence .
furthermore , one could argue that easy money alone has been instrumental in an unexpectedly potent disinflationary force seen in recent years . owing to easy financing and regulatory forbearance , aggregate supply has risen like “ zombie ” companies have proliferated . meanwhile , aggregate demand has been constrained by debt headwinds – but another consequence of easy monetary conditions . in view of these conditions , continuing to insist on monetary easing seems especially ill advised . with so many potential dangers on the horizon , central bankers should at least consider rethinking the fundamental assumptions underlying their policies .
so , amid an unidentified array of options , the least bad looks as cooperation with the americas . yet cooperation with the us may not gain much from the al-sauds , because saudi relations with america are strained to the breaking point . ever since the terrorist attacks on new york and washington last year , the regime – once central to america ’s strategic interests in the region – was made to feel unsashed , which drops powerful hints that alternative to saudi military bases can be found in the region , even saudi oil . although the saudis were not included in president bush ’s “ axis of evil , ” some american policymakers are now viewing the country as a “ kernel of evil . ” al-qaeda ’s terrorist network is seen to be caused directly by fundamentalist wahhabi teachings , constitute an integral portion of the saudi regime ’s .
cambridge : how victims remember trauma is the most controversial issue facing psychology and psychiatry today . many clinical trauma theorists seem to believe that fighting , rape and the rest of us with seemingly engraved minds , never to be forgotten . others disagree , arguing that the mind can protect itself by banishing memories of trauma from awareness , making sacrifices harder to remember their most horrific experiences , until it is safe to do so many years later . while acknowledging that trauma often is all too memorable , these specific clinical trauma theorists assert that a condition known as traumatic dissociative amnesia “ leaves an overbearing minority of victim unable to recall their trauma , precisely because it was so overwhelmingly terrifying . however , such clinical trauma theorists fail to argue that “ repressed ” or “ dissociate ” memories of horrific events are either inert or benign .
in calcutta , when some younger kid came along and insisted on joining the game my friend , let the new kid play in , but only after whispering into each other ’s ears the words , elé belé belé belé . elé belé is the player who believes he is participating but , indeed , in truth , simply passes through motions . everybody knew that a target that scored by his was not a true goal . as a child , mastering elé belé ’s cruelé belé vicious art was important . when a new kid arrived , accompanied by doting mother , we could convey to one another with only a glance that kid would be an elé belé belé .
the financial times stock exchange of all-world index rose to almost 22 % by 2017 – its best performance since the post-crisis rebound of 2009 . as the growth pessimism of recent years fades , some warnings that have been made in recent years seemed outdated . northwestern university ’s robert gordon , for example , argued that america ’s economy was bound to slow , because today ’s technological innovations would not boost growth to what was previously happening . harvard ’s lawrence h. summers has had much consideration for his argument that , as the world risked sliding toward “ secular stagnation , ” because the interest rates needed to bring desired investment to the line with desired savings were below zero . yet , while the zero lower bound no longer seems to be a binding constraint , there are potential causes of concern , one concerning debt levels .
in fact , china has been damming most international rivers that flow from tibet , whose fragile ecosystem is already under threat from global warming . the only rivers on which not hydro-engineering works have taken place so far are the indus , whose basin falls mostly in india and pakistan , and the salafis , which flows into burma and thailand . but local authorities in yunnan province are also considering damming the salween in the quake-prone upstream region . india ’s government has been pressing china for transparency and greater hydrological data-sharing , and commitment not to redirect any river ’s natural flow to the natural flow of any river or to reduce cross-border water flows . even the united nations joint expert-level mechanism – established in 2007 merely by “ interaction and cooperation ” on hydrological data – has proven little value .
perhaps , but most students view monetary policy easing as a textbook policy for pulling the us economy out of a zero-interest-rate “ liquidity trap , ” thereby preventing the onset of sustained deflation , thereby exacerbating debt burdens . as for china ’s renminbi , the us continues to support an extremely political exchange-rate regime . eventually , it will have to reflate china ’s rapid growth in order to translate into a significant rise in its currency ’s value , its domestic price level , or that both . but , in 2011 , it is likely that a majority of the equilibration will take place through inflation . last but not least , currency chaos has the safest bet of all , with a sharp and unpredictable swings in floating exchange rates all over the world .
without such cooperation , china ’s ambitions would be constrained only by domestic factors such as faltering economies , rising social discontent , worsening environmental crisis , or vicious politics . which countries should take the lead in constraining china ’s revisionist ambitions ? with the us distracted by other strategic challenges – not to mention its domestic presidential campaign – asia ’s other powers – notably , an economically surging india and a more politically assertive japan – are the best candidates to work . india and japan are longstanding stakeholders in the us-led global order , emphasizing in their own international relations values that america espouses , such as the need to maintain a stable balance of power , respect the territorial and maritime status quo , and preserve the freedom of navigation . moreover , they have demonstrated their shared yearning to uphold the existing asia-pacific order .
the developed nations also should fulfill their commitments , under the convention , in order to provide financial backing and technology transfer to enable developing countries to address climate change in a way that is effectively . in addition , the adequate mechanisms and institutional arrangements that are needed should be established to help adaptation , financial support , and technology transfer . developing countries will then , in a context of sustainable development and measurable , reportable , and verifiable support for financing , technology , and capacity-building – take nationally appropriate mitigation actions . the global financial crisis has undoubtedly exacerbated the climate-change challenge . but , because the challenges of climate change are more far-reaching and severe , the world must not waver in its determination and commitment to addressing it .
florence – earlier this month , jim yong kim abruptly resigned from his post as world bank president , leaving a pillar of the international financial order without leadership or direction . kim will join a private equity firm where he believes that he can “ make the most powerful impact on major global issues such as climate change . ” following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources in a middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , yet it does not augur all-out war .
the “ abenomics ” version of zero-interest-rate government bonds that will not be repaid would be the purchase of zero-interest-rate government bonds either because they are perpetual bonds or because they are rolled over every time they mature . that is arguably , what the bank of japan is doing today . boj governor haruhiko kuroda has said , directly underwriting budget deficits is not an option . he has nonetheless initiated a policy of replacing the boj ’s government bond with sheet once it mature , while steadily increasing the volume of government debt on its central bank books . this comes after years of declarations by distinguished economists , including berkeley ’s brad delong and former us federal reserve chair ben bernanke , that helicopter money is offering a way to overcome deflation ( with which japan has already been fighting for decades ) .
starting in the summer of 2015 , he embracing extremist rhetoric appealing to nativism , islamophobia , and anger at gop elites . media outlets provided as much as $ 2 trillion of free coverage , helping him grab and hold leading in polls and primaries . trump ’s core supporters are wrongly thought to have been displaced and economically insecure blue-collar workers . in fact , his voters ’ annual average income , at approximately $ 72,000 , exceeds america ’s median of just $ 56,000 . his supporters resemble the tea partiers : overwhelmingly older , male , middle-class , and white .
once viewed as disgusting , the group of people shifts attention from them in terms of moral individuals . they become soulless bodies and the moral circle closes in to exclude them . our reactions to soulless bodies are well illustrated in a story told descartes after the death . descartes , it became known that descartes had illegitimate daughter , france , who died when he was five years old . according to narrative , descartes was struck so hard by sorsorrow that he created an automaton , a mechanical doll built to emerge identical with his dead daughter .
but the istanbul terrorist attacks are unlikely to produce nervous reactions in hampering democratic rights . if al-qaeda were behind the attacks , it grossly miscalculated . prime minister recep tayyip erdogan ’s reaction summed up turkish sentiment : “ these bombs aim to destroy and maintain peace and stability in our country . we do n’t change course , either . if those bombings are intended to send a message , i sweep it down to crush it under my feet . ”
khamenei ’s invocation of law nonetheless echoes the demands of the many conservative-pragmatists who lean toward mousavi that the position is not to challenge khamenei ’s authority directly . mousavi must pursue his legal campaign carefully , without compromising the trust that he has gained from iranians ’ majority . he must oppose his two principal demands : nullifying the election , and establishing an impartial committee to govern the cabinet ’s violations of electoral law . should mousavi persuade khamenei to reconsider his position , the supreme leader ’s hold on power will be shaken . if khamenei holds fast , mousavi can not gain for his presidency , but would continue to represent iranians ’ hopes that they differ dramatically with their government .
there is , too , something even more important than one ’s reputation . a political leader has greater opportunities than almost anyone to help people , and that yanukovych ’s top priority should have been . but even if yanukovych thought primarily to his own interests , his quest for personal enrichment was irrational . just imagine that he had quit asking himself what would make him happier . imagine , with this question in mind , comparing the alternative of lavish lifestyles ( with a private zoo and pirate-ship restaurant ) with his living comfortably on a substantial salary to which his right while knowing that he was governing with integrity and doing his best to improve the livelihoods of ukraine ’s citizens .
indeed , north korea has been far less forthcoming on its stated intentions . whether it attempts to involve the rest of the world remains to be seen in an even constructive and sustained manner , or whether dprk officials and diplomats merely place the right face forward to divert international attention from their country ’s reputation as a nuclear weapons-monger and human-rights violator . indeed , a visit to incheon comes within mixed messages . two days before the north korean delegation arrived , the committee on a peaceful reunification of korea ( prk ) , which is officially part of the korean workers ’ party , denounced the “ south korean puppet force for serious breaches of north-south joint declarations and pushes north-south ties into its worst disaster . ” on the day of incheon ’s visit , north korea ’s state news agency went through bellicose and derogatory language toward south korea and the us : “ lurking behind this is an ulterior design of america to [ d more ze] alously south koreans puppet forces into escalating confrontation with the d
when an idea both intuitively true and in reality false is often because it is true on one level , but not on the level at which it is being applied . yes , humans tend to specialize . everyone benefits from each of us to become good at a different level and exchanging our knowhow with others . it is not efficient at dentist and lawyer . but specialization at the individual level does actually lead to diversification at a higher level .
gene-drive organisms are meant to spread indefinitely , with mosquitos , especially females , able to surf air currents at relatively high alplatitudes ( 40-290 meters ( 131-951 feet ) to deal with winds to blow them hundreds of kilometers . this implies that consent will have to be secured far beyond the release point.subscribe nowh4 { text-align : center ; } for the sake of limited time only to acquire unlimited access toon point ; the local people have not been involved ; the “ limb archive , ” plus our annual global malaria project , for just $ 75 . subscribeyet subscribeyet , in the village of nasso , not near bana , authorities told us that , despite meeting with target malaria , they still had questions and concerns regarding the potential adverse consequences of mosquito release . civil-society groups operating in and around burkina faso have also been fully targets of malaria ’s lack of consent to target consent , which eschews the word consent , but regularly uses “ engagement ”
many more simply became discouraged and drop out of the labor force entirely : not in school rather than in work and not to look for work . they protest little , but many end up in prison . now , the world ’s labor markets are interconnected . in countries as diverse as egypt and the u.s. , young people have a role to be in competing with young chinese and indians for jobs . china ’s low-paid , reasonably productive manufacturing workers , and high-quality infrastructure ( roads , power , ports , and communications ) have set the competitiveness standard globally .
article 7 of the lisbon treaty provides for the suspension of rogue eu member states ’ voting rights . but , because this “ nuclear option ” demands unanimous votes by all of the eu ’s member states , everyone knows that it will never be used . in reality , article 7 is such ineffective deterrent that it serves rule-breakers ’ interests , by guaranteeing that they will not be punished . orbán has been scamming the eu for years and encouraging other populists to pursue their own authoritarian goals – and , with the eu funding to boot . but the weakening of the rule of law is not merely a domestic matter in hungary or poland .
in iraq , bush again pursued a unilateralist agenda saying that there was an incontrovertible evidence of the link to al qaeda , and that saddam possesses weapons of mass destruction . indeed , even before the invasion , it was overwhelming evidence for bush that he was lying . detection techniques made it obvious that iraq had no nuclear weapons , as chief un inspector hans blix pointed out . it can be that bush read such messages , but that they were beyond his comprehcomprehension . it is also possible that he did not believe what he read .
all these groups are propelling a nihilistic rage , born of hostility to non-sunnis and rejection of modernity . unfortunately , as sri lanka bombings and other attacks in asia show , isis ’s defeat in syria and iraq has merely intensified the challenge of terrorism , owing to battle-hardened combat fighters with an operational training to stage savage attacks now returning home . the presence of such returnees in sri lanka explains how obscure , locally managed groups had been able to engage in sophisticated , near-simultaneous strikes on three churches and three hotels using military-grade explosive attacks . returnees are present in many of asia as well , from the philippines and indonesia to the maldives and uzbekistan . like osama bin laden , along with other al-qaeda leaders who cut their us-backed teeth against the soviet occupation of afghanistan , this new generation of jihadist veterans could haunt asia ’s security , the middle east , and the west for years to come .
denver – angelina jolie ’s new film , “ in bloodstained and honey lands , ” is about ethnic tensions that have generated the bloodiest conflict in europe since world war ii . the film already won two awards , and is an emerging box-office success , attesting for the enduring interest – and , perhaps mystery – that the balkans hold for international audiences who were as horrified as confused with the events of the 1990s . for those of us who lived and operated in the region during that turbulent decade , post-yugoslav wars remain fresh wounds . as jolie ’s film so ably shows , neither the international community nor local leaders made a concerted effort to avoid bloodshed . one exceptions – perhaps the only exception – have kiro gligorov , macedonia ’s president , who died in his sleep of new year ’s day in the age of 94 .
evidence is falling foreign investment , and this contributes to the economy ’s disappointing level of investment overall . moreover , this trend is accentuating the challenges of weak productivity growth . there are signs , too , that uk-based companies have begun to trigger their brexit contingency plans after an extended waiting period , planning , and more waiting . in addition to shifting investment away from the uk , firms will also begin relocating jobs . and this process will most likely accelerate , even though british prime minister theresa may manages to get her proposed exit deal via parliament .
he advocates local decision-making whenever possible and efficient , but he is also supporting domestic and european-level decision-making where this is appropriate ; the key is that process should be flexible , and enable citizen participation . he recognizes that sharing sovereignty will make europeans more influential , thereby empowering their citizens . and he views globalization in the same way as a good thing ; but he understands that it must be managed through durable , efficient international agreements and institutions . opinion polls are currently bouncing wildly , owing to fillon ’s scandal and a surge in hamon support among left-wing voters outside of the socialist party . but if macron qualifies in the second round , he poses a bigger threat to le pen than the outright left-wing candidate would .
europe is the realist response to globalization and its challenges . it was initiated in creating “ solidarités de fait accompli , ” promoting political stability , and consolidating the democracy and european social model . having made those goals possible , europeans are now keen to make a positive contribution to world trends . that is not nostalgia for past glory . an unprecedented degree of solidarity now exists across europe , as was evident in the collective mourning and outpouring of sympathy toward spain ; we must build on this huge potential to create a sense of global solidarity .
for starters , there is his answer to queen elizabeth ii ’s now-famous question : “ why did nobody be seeing it coming ? ” krugman ’s mercurial response is that the new keynesians looked the way . theirs was , in theory , not a failure . ” they had “ overlooked ” crucial institutional changes in the financial system . while this was regrettable , it raised no “ deep conceptual question ” – that is , it was not calling for them to rethink his theory .
the same can not be said for kaczyński ński.another major difference is that eastern europeans tend to hold more materialist attitudes than westerners who have moved beyond concern about physical security to embrace what sociologist ronald inglehart calls post-materialist values . one aspect of this difference is that east european societies are more vulnerable to attacks on abstract liberal institutions , such as freedom from speech and justice independence.this should be all too surprising . after all , liberalism in eastern europe has western import . despite trump and the brexit phenomena , the us – and the uk – have deeply embedded cultures of political and social liberalism . in eastern europe , civic societies are not just weaker ; they have also focused more on areas like charity , religion , and leisure , rather than political issues.moreover , in the vastly different political landscape of europe ’s post-communist states , the left remains either highly weak or completely absent from the mainstream of the political community .
but that is a great “ if . ” as for the eurozone , we seem to have been too optimistic , despite being predicted by a decline in potential growth to around 1.5 % . nowadays , most forecasters put the region ’s growth potential at about 1 % . unless germany can shift to a more domestic-demand-driven growth model , that projection will probably turn out to be correct . yet while most press coverage has focused on germany ’s falling output and manufacturing sector , the country ’s service sector remains strong .
the size of such transfers , on the other hand , would depend on the eu ’s financial policies at the time of admission , the outcome of the accession negotiations and the economic developments in turkey . in any case , the eu ’s practice of “ capping ” its budget would avoid an explosion in the financial costs implied by turkey ’s admission . immigration should not be a cause for undue concern , either . human mobility is limited , and turkey ’s workers ’ would probably be allowed to move freely within the eu only after a long transition period , perhaps not before 2025 . given turkey ’s expected upswing in the economy , and its declining birthrate , experts predict a figure of around 2.7 million migrants by that point .
more than most people realize , gospels treat recalcitrant jews – those refused to accept jesus as their messiah – as perpetrators of crimes that are living on a daily basis . anti-semites often cite passage in matthew , in which a jewish mob cheers for chunks for christ ’s execution and voluntarily accepts permanent guilt : “ his bloodletting is upon us and our children . ” matthew then attributes to the jewish establishment to jews to a recurrent lie explaining the resurrection and disappearance of jesus ’s body : “ his disciples came at night and stole him while our slept . ” later evangelist john concludes that because jews deny their christian messiah they need to be “ sons of the devil ” that we must . simply as whites attribute exceptional sexual powers to blacks , the christian west ’s instinct is to treat jews as masters of extraordinary force – which include the power to kill deities and control world finance .
but with too much macho , too much politics and provincialism , reform never occurred . so the idea that " it makes countries different , " that global finance rules were not subject , proved utter nonsense . by the time the crisis came , thailand seemed like all others who turned desperation toward the imf . thailand 's decision last may to cut interest rates made it a safe gamble to bet against the bhat , opening salvo in the crisis . encouraged by the illusion of strong reserve position , the thai central bank took up the speculators -- and has lost .
not least was it because of the protest movements that france now has made concessions on both these counts . but how can such concessions , given duress , be secured ? that is a task for which non-governmental organizations and protest movements are not well equipped : they can raise public conscience , but can not formally commit governments . only other governments can do that . so the push to nail down the concessions extracted by the protests has hit governments , the hour to come .
compounding the challenge is growing cohort of informed elites in russia . as the top russian propagandist dmitry kiselev acknowledged recently , “ higher learning within the humanities ( and social sciences ) breeds social unrest . ” not surprisingly , he has complained that “ too many ” russians are studying these subjects . most russians will not become well-informed overnight . but , as the scheme is forced to dedicate more resources to silencing informed figures , the majority will suffer economically .
london – officials at the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) have long insisted that “ china will not weaponize the renminbi . ” and yet , implicit in their promise not to manipulate the currency for strategic ends , their ability to do this if they are so desirable is their ability . china ’s monetary policy has come the fore now , with american president donald trump imposing import tariffs on a range of chinese goods . many wondering whether china would respond to trump ’s trade war by threatening a currency war . if it does , the world should invoke its bluff .
beyond contributing to the size and productivity of the workforce , immigrants often complement native-born workers ’ skills , helping them to earn more in the long run . my professional focus is on economics ; so i stressed the role of the growth that it has played . but that obviously is not the only factor behind the rise of populist nationalism . having changed culturally , perhaps even more so , matters . in the us , for example , foreign-born share of the population has climbed to just 5 percentage points , from around 14 % today to about 14 % today .
that shift – in turn , clears the way for generational leadership change – and , more important , the shift of post-oslo politics . the plo ’s old guard – men like yasser arafat and abbas , who led the liberation organization from exile to return home in oslo accords – dominated the palestinian political landscape up to now . after they depart the scenes , palestinian leader born under occupation , and spent time spent in israeli prisons , most likely will fill the vacuum . the most prominent such figure is marwan barghouti , leader of the student movement at birzeit university in the 1980 ’s , and one of the leading organizers of the initial intifada , has resulting in his deportation of israel in the late 1980 ’s . in 2002 , he was arrested and charged with a long prison term on charges that he led a second intifada that started two years earlier to dictate some of his military assaults .
these are key ingredients in nationalist stew that today seem appealing to russians . judging by putin ’s most recent address to parliament , his regime is acutely aware of the dangers posed by populist nationalists . it is likely that the regime will attempt to counter this eruption of nationalism while maintaining its robust statist rhetoric . but , to defeat a far right , putin ’s regime will be forced by force to take its stand on more or less liberal ideological grounds . this will not be easy for a regime based on the twin pillars of bureaucracy and security apparatus .
in taiwan , tsai is equally committed in this respect . last year , responding to public opposition in june to a 2011 fukushima meltdown , tsai vowed to make taiwan nuclear-free by 2025 . nowadays , coal and natural gas provide more than two-thirds of the country ’s electricity needs , with renewables accounting at just 5 % . tsai has called for a share of renewables to rise to 20 % over the next three years , with capacity coming mainly from solar and offshore wind . that new load would easily replace the country ’s six nuclear reactors .
as production of these fuels grows , we would require policies , programs , and capacities to ensure that they are used sustainably , without distorting food markets , or compromising food security , which always would be the first priority . the pioneers of biofuels would probably be surprised by how little they contribute today to overall global fuel supplies . rudolf diesel ’s first engine , designed in the late 1800s , ran on fuel derived from peanut petroleum . henry ford once scouted florida in the hope of purchasing tracts of land to plant sugarcane , convinced the united states that it would not tolerate pollution from burning fossil fuels or dependency on the implicit in importing oil to produce gasoline . in recent decades alone , biofuels have regained its initial appeal , owing to efforts to secure affordable energy , generate income , and alleviate the dependency of which ford warned .
many british people believed in the “ free trade empire . ” others fanned the flames of anglo-german antagonism , have carved protectionist germany as a barbarian society surviving on horse sausages , and dog-meat ; lloyd george , future prime minister , told audiences that he was more afraid of german sausage than he was of the german navy . one reason that freer trade defeated protectionism in britain a century ago was that its supporters appealed to the emotions and identities of the people , not just their rational interest in more wealth and cheap diet . liberals and radicals organized traveling shows , color posters , and political entertainment . in towns , displays in shop windows illustrated the costs of tariffs to ordinary consumers .
inordinately lax regulatory environments have proved lethal , encouraging northern european banks to pad their balance sheets with southern european governments and bank bonds . when the bubble burst , it left in its wake woefully expensive economies losing competitiveness . europeans should now use calm on the storm fronts to rethink european currencies from the ground up . efforts to create europe the equivalent of the dollar and impose a fiscal union on the top , notwithstanding the lack of a common european state , are bound to default . it will transform member countries into debtors and creditors , stoking even more animosity .
indeed , the latter now stand at over 15 % of gdp . hits chinese exports are likely to take as the result of the region 's currency depreciations , but they are unlikely to feel immediately . rivals asian economies will have to be stabilized before they can push their exports aggressively . moreover , inflation in some asean countries may rise with floating exchange rates . because of this , the price competitiveness of their exports may be lessened , too .
moreover , there are real disagreements within america 's bureaucracy as it comes to assessing the threat that al qaeda in mali represents to america 's interests . it is not so far from above that it has operational and symbolic significance . operationally it is limited to isr and does not involve ground troops . symbolically , it means backing the initial and significant effort undertaken by others . for the european union , this situation is worrying on two counts .
the private sector had large foreign assets , whereas the government had about the same amount of foreign liabilities . even so , argentina went bankrupt because rich argentines spirited their assets off the country and thus outside of the government as a whole while poorer argentines refused to pay the taxes needed to satisfy the claims of foreign creditors . by contrast , with the country 's foreign assets held not by households , but by institutions such as pension funds , they can identify and taxed . this is most of the case in europe . this analysis suggests that the “ excessive [ current-account ] imbalances procedure that is to be introduced under the ongoing reform of european governance goes in the right direction .
disappointed in their political leaders , algerians ’ unity stemmed in large part from their shared love of soccer . the stars of barcelona , real madrid , chile , and milan , are household names . but exposure to foreign television stations means that many disillusioned algerians are looking toward escape to italy , france , or germany as their only hope for employment , and a decent life . will the coming months bring genuine change toward algeria ? will the will to implement social and economic reforms aimed at securing an equitable distribution of the country ’s oil and gasoline wealth ?
lower interest rates worked , but not so much because they boosted investment , but because they led households to refinance their mortgages , fueled a housing price bubble . in short , as greenspan departs , he leaves behind the american economy burdened by high household and government debt and fragile balance sheets – a legacy that is already contributing to global financial instability . it remains to be seen as a lack of clarity what led greenspan to support tax cuts . was this massive economic misjudgment , or were he currying favor with the bush administration ? the most likely explanation is a combination of the two , for both he and bush pursued the same “ starve the beast ” political strategy , which calls for tax cuts to reduce revenues , thereby forcing the public-sector to downsized the public sector .
ethiopia hardly is the only recent example of how conflict over land rights can set the stage for political and humanitarian crises . competition for arable land contributed to the rwandan genocide in 1994 . an historic drought may have created conditions for syria ’s civil war . and food insecurity stemming from land mismanagement has become an important driver of migrants ’ migration into europe . land-related issues will continue to undermine global stability , especially if the climate effects exacerbate existing problems .
because they lead far more carbon-intensive lifestyles than everyone else , they would contribute far more per capita to their carbon dividend . more , to the bottom , they would pay far more to the point than they get back , while the poorest 60 % of americans get back in the us would do even more than they put them in . in short , a carbon dividend would distribute money from predominantly wealthy high polluters to predominantly low - and middle-income polluters , all , while reducing their co2 emissions . on its own , it would represent a smart step in its own right direction – one that does not invite the “ yellow vest ” response . but do n’t let anyone tell you a silver bullet .
a further lesson for sarkozy ’s from germany is that an enlightened corporate state needs the support of political leadership as well as accommodating trade unions . german chancellor angela merkel makes no difference to the speeches of attacking a strong euro and european central bank ’s price-stability mandate . on the contrary , she supports an independent ecb , and has let germany ’s business unions and companies know that they will have to live with a strong currency and an anti-inflationary monetary policy . this does not mean that merkel is a free-market capitalist – there is very little evidence that she is . rather , she simply understands that for an economy in need of a competitive , bad-mouthing that the euro and the ecb send missignals .
because of its geopolitical weight , germany ’s perspective nowadays is synonymous with that of the european union . and the eu ’s outlook is not that of a hegemon ; rather , it is concerned with the rule of law , integration , and peaceful reconciliation of member states ’ interests . germany ’s location alone makes nationalism the wrong idea ; and besides , its most fundamental political and economic interests depend on a powerful , successful eu – particularly with trump ’s age . germany is in the same boat as all other europeans with regard to its security . just as there can be no french security without germany , there can be no german security without poland .
the same can be seen in antidepressants . there is no argument that ect can cause short-term memory losses . but critics have found it hard to show memory or other cognitive problems that endure beyond three months . nor can enduring autobiographical memory disturbances and the inability to remember lists be readily attributed to ect because ect rarely receives its own attention . indeed , very few of those receiving ect also receive benzodiazepines , which do not cause significant autobiographical memory problems when given their own , antipsychotic drugs , cause trouble lists of biases or telephone numbers , and other comparable problems .
if they were , there would be no need for an indigenous bankruptcy law spells out issues like precedence and fair treatment . but no government has found cacs adequate to resolve homegrown restructuring . so why should we think they suffice in the far more complicated world of sovereign-debt restructurings ? cacs , in particular , suffer from the “ aggregation ” problem . if a cac demanded , say , 75 % of each bond class ’s holders , the vultures could buy 26 % of just one bond class and block the entire restructuring .
rather , it should strengthen the case for open dialogue and tough negotiation – precisely what was long missing in western policy toward ukraine ’s crisis and toward the entire post-soviet eurasian region . we arrived at precisely this point , because both russia and the west spent over a decade seeking unilateral advantage and eschewing negotiated compromises . holding talks into the current atmosphere of mistrust , mutual recrimination , and fearmongering would require substantial investment in political capital for a permanent period . moving beyond current adversarial approaches to finding common ground will take time . a quick agreement will be impossible .
but it also represents the global gold standard in a range of fields , including technology , defense , and research and development . contrary to china ’s statist legacy , american historic experiences instilled citizens and leaders in their commitment to freedom in their citizens , including free markets and local autonomy . america ’s federal government ’s size and power grew only slowly until the 1930s , when the new deal – which included federal programs , public works projects , and financial reform and regulations – was implemented in response to the great depression . america ’s federal government expanded again during and after wwii , reflecting the country ’s new global hegemony , and the prosperity of its middle class ( created in no small part by a new deal to promote unionization and home ownership ) . the administration assumed a bigger role in areas ranging from defense and foreign policy to health care and welfare .
the precise number of european fighters who received training from isis and returned home is still unknown . abdelhamid abaaoud , who led the november 2015 paris attacks , asserted that he was , in europe , one of the 90 isis-trained terrorists . isis allegedly trained 400-600 fighters for “ outside operations ” involving urban guerilla warfare , improvised explosive equipment ( ieds ) , surveillance , counter-security , and forgery . isis has so far hit france and turkey hardest . france has suffered more than 230 deaths and some 700 injuries , while turkey has endured more than 220 deaths and some 900 injuries .
to account for learning crises in many developing countries , governments and development agencies should look for greater opportunities to form strategic partnerships with non-state providers . in bangladesh , for example , schools run by brac employ female teachers ( who are pivotal in increasing girls ’ enrollment ) and outperform government-run schools on learning outcomes . fortunately , the afghan government has begun to open its doors to innovative ngo models like brac ’s community-based education program . but a shortage of qualified female teachers makes scaling up such efforts more difficult . women account for only one-third of all afghan teachers in primary and secondary schools , partly owing to extraordinarily low female literacy rates .
these economic shocks have exposed each country ’s huge sectarian-based political cost . and protesters , driven by economic grievances , have been emboldened by improved security conditions , owing to the defeat of the islamic state and the wind-down of syria ’s war . in all four of these countries , the severity of economic mismanagement reflects the long-standing use of state spending to fund their regime ’s allies and clients rather than the benefit of the whole population . through cronyism , these regimes have controlled each country ’s private sector not only to extract and distribute rents to their clients , but also to block the emergence of autonomous entities that might fund opposition movements . as a result , capital and skills have been misallocated , the business climate has deteriorated , and competition , innovation , and growth have suffered as well .
but the reduced flexibility in response to economic shocks will surely test it . at present , it is boldly emphasizing a disparate , even discordant , fiscal reaction now embraced by european union governments . this raises the old question of whether a currency union can work without fiscal union , or at least stronger and binding fiscal rules ( maastricht deficit liabilities are too easily violated ) . to this , we will have to add coordinated fiscal regulation and bailout policies , as deposits flow rapidly across frontiers in response to national guarantees and insurance in the euro zone . will the euro 's second decade succeed ?
today , language barriers prevent many immigrant parents from helping their children homework because texts are only in english . but imagine a world in which textbooks accommodate many learning styles and translated into myriad languages . today , pluto remains on the planet list in science textbooks , and who knows how long it will take for it to be removed . but imagine a world where textbooks are continually updated and corrected in a legion of contributors . such a world was just a decade ago dream ; today , textbooks are being adapted to a global problem .
if only they could take place in china . one powerful school of thought emerged almost as soon as the killing began in 1989 is that the more radical student leaders were reckless . it should make clear to them , that the violent crackdown was inevitable . by provoking the regime , students derailed any chance of slow political reform that their more moderate elders had carefully set up in train . indeed , so proponents of this school often add , china has not so far been ready for democracy .
delivery problems abound in war zones , but not everywhere . yet international donors are dragging their feet both on meeting existing commitments and making new ones . and all aid around the world wo n’t stop the kill . it is too late now for non-military tools of coercion to have far effect , though security council threats from the international criminal court to the prosecution of atrocity crimes – including any use , say , chemical weapons – must remain on the table . yet what the military-response options still strongly favored by many policymakers and pundits ?
for example , when trump appeals to the reduction of us military engagement in the middle east , he simply echoes obama . yet by reneging on the iran nuclear deal , trump has made war in the region more likely in the region . and , by going out of its way in alleviate north korea ’s international isolation , while getting almost nothing in return , trump has reinforced china ’s position in east asia . trump ’s global trade war , by slapping tariffs on america ’s closest allies , is just as self-defeating . by slapping tariffs on america ’s closest allies , he is practically driving it into the arms of china .
each country could create a council that represents public bodies ( transportation , public works , customs ) , and major users ( exporters and logistics firms ) that must work together to identify ways to reduce logistics costs . communications between users and government services are vitally important to achieve any real improvement . it is just as vitally important , even though for committees to develop along like lines in each country ’s provincial areas . merchandise need not pass the capital , as it does in most of latin american and caribbean countries with associated cost hikes . regions then can be transformed into engine of growth .
the fdp ’s ideas have broad support in germany , and between german economists ( and a number of other european economists ) . and they are consistent with positions adopted by the german ministry of finance under the previous government . but policies that might work in a perfect world of efficient , resilient financial markets could be dangerous if applied in highly imperfect real-world markets . as we saw a decade ago , financial institutions operating in an environment of uncertainty can become fragile and collapse , imposing high costs on societies . the idea of a temporary euro exit is particularly ill-advised .
will it return to robust growth , or will we have an anemic recovery à la japan in the 1990s ? right now , i cast my vote for the latter , especially given that the massive legacy of debt is likely to dampen enthusiasm for the large stimulus that is required . without a sufficiently large enough stimulus ( in excess of 2 % of gdp ) , we will have a vicious negative spiral : weak economies will mean more bankruptcies , which push stock prices down and interest rates up , undermine consumer trust , and weaken us banks . consumption and investment will be cut back further . many wall street financiers , who received their gobs of cash , are returning to their fiscal religion of low deficits .
prague – global free trade provides the greatest opportunity for improving human welfare over the next decade and a half . it has already helped lift more than one billion people out of poverty over the last quarter-century . lowering trade barriers even more could double the average incomes in the world ’s poorest parts of the world over the coming 15 years . yes , it has come at the cost of freer trade that must be addressed better ; but the costs vastly outweigh the benefits . yet , in rich countries today , mood has turned against free trade .
muslims in sub-saharan africa , however , like most muslims all over the world , exhibit “ us versus them ” mentality . when muslims form a minority , they tended to co-exist peacefully with other religions ; but where their populations are substantial ( as in nigeria ) they tend to assert themselves . whatever ethnic , other divisions at stake , “ us versus them ” sentiment has played a big role in fomenting religious conflict in nigeria . nevertheless , nigeria ( and perhaps zanzibar ) remains an exception in islamic assertiveness in sub-saharan africa , which is why the vision for an active “ islamic world , ” which includes only some relatively limited segment of sub-saharan african muslims . whether or not they have like them , most sub-saharan african muslims are represented by states that are mostly secular , christian , or dominated by other religions .
indeed , piketty argues that our “ obsession with growth ” merely “ serves as an excuse to do nothing about the health side , education , or redistribution . ” and it is an obsession rooted very much in the present . ” we forget that for centuries , growth was essentially zero . “ by 30 years , one percentage point real growth means doubling your economy ’s gdp . ” piketty sees that as grounds for saying “ some optimistic . ”
for good reason , many europeans are sensitive to issues of human rights in hong kong , xinjiang , and elsewhere . europeans are rightly worried about economic issues as well . as the european commission warned earlier this year ( under its prior leadership ) , china is being “ the economic competitor to pursue technological leadership and a systemic rival promoting alternative governance models . ” this language represents a sharp departure from this last year of previous eu official communiqués . the next year will be critical , too .
though the democrats have often been criticized for trump ’s approach , they are not proposing further trade liberalization . a final issue to consider when assessing america ’s presidential candidates is which each would nominate as the american federal reserve ’s next chair . trump – who has repeatedly criticized current fed chair jerome powell for pursuing overly little monetary-policy easing – would probably pick a dovish candidate . a left-leaning democrat might do the same , owing to the left ’s fascination with the risky ideas that support massive amounts of fed-funded debt . center-left leftists – biden , amy klobuchar , pete buttigieg – might reappoint powell who did a good job , or choose a moderate democratic economist such as former fed vice chair alan blinder or former treasury secretary larry summers .
boston – for example , the globe ran an article on the man – identify only by his first name , danny – whom brothers carjacked three days after the attack . danny argued that the brothers ’ only word conversations that he understood were “ manhattan , ” and that terrorists were asking for him if his car could leave the state – say , to get to the new york city in the first way . the world ’s one-source report proved nothing – and has not been verifiable by other reporters or citizens – but has suggested much , leading to a spate of equally unverifiable reports targeted by the new york times . other recent “ terror ” – related reporting has been as flimsy . at charles savage ’s recent account for guantánamo ’s “ uprising , ” new york times dimly reproduced the “ arsenal ” that gitmo officials showed reporters in a video still .
at the same time , there has been no evenly distributed benefits from these gains , and sub-saharan africa has viewed far less progress than other areas . a second study , funded by ifad and recently released by the international food policy research institute , examines the global downturn starting in 2012 , in the context of rural populations . it finds that as a result of the downturn , 38 million more people will remain in extreme poverty in 2030 than likely would otherwise have had , with middle-income households in particular at risk . this poses a severe challenge for the sdgs to end poverty “ in all of its forms everywhere ” and strengthen the case for policies and investment that specifically target rural areas where poverty-reduction measures take more , and they will have greater impact . rural areas ’ progress so far reveals their prospective potential .
such policies could then quite subjugated to claims on the gold standard and free capital mobility . but after the political franchise was enlarged , the working class became organized , and mass politics became the norm , domestic economic objectives began to compete ( and overwhelm ) external rules and constraints . britain ’s short-lived return to gold in the interwar period is the classic case . the attempt to reconstitute the pre-world war i model of globalization collapsed in 1931 , when domestic politics forced the british government to choose a domestic reflation over the gold standard . the architects of the bretton woods regime kept that lesson in mind when it redesigned the world ’s monetary system in 1944 .
washington , dc - over 60 % of all employed women in sub-saharan africa work in their agriculture . yet the region ’s women farmers often reap meager harvests , not because of inclement weather or poor soil quality , but because their gender – or , more precisely , because of a dense web of laws , policies , and programs , and customs that put them at significant disadvantage . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
beyond the need to alleviate the human misery that fills television screens and front pages of papers , the imperative is not to miss the significant medium-term opportunities that migration provides . while pockets of high unemployment are in europe today , the ratio of workers into elderly people in the longer term is likely to decline considerably . and , already , labor-market flexibility has been undermined by structural inertia , including hardship in retooling and retraining workers , particularly the long-unemployed . as the german government and some corporate leaders , including daimler-benz , have already recognized , an open-minded approach to refugee absorption and integration may help mitigate some of europe ’s protracted structural challenges . after all , a significant proportion of incoming refugee populations are said to be educated , motivated , and committed to building a better future in their new households .
for example , if an independent worker drives one hour for uber , walks a rover dog , each platform would contribute a level playing field toward her or her benefit . this would allow independent workers to accumulate and handle their benefits , and ultimately acquire a safety net like that of a full-time contracted employee . with digital commerce estimated to benefit at least 80 million young africans by 2030 , opportunities for gig workers will expand . and if access on a range of valued benefits , from health insurance to pensions , is made conditional on registering their businesses and paying taxes , they will have a powerful reason to formulate their work . digitization could enable the formal sector to offer a spectrum of employee benefits and employee responsibilities .
for starters , they must take action to safeguard livelihoods in the rural environment , ensure animal welfare , and improve education , knowledge transfers , and entrepreneurship training for farmers and farming workers . british policymakers must also move beyond ad hoc responses to natural and man-made disaster , by building more effective and reliable conservation systems . for starters , they could facilitate provision of affordable agricultural insurance , or create some type of mutual-assistance scheme . implementing ( and funding ) such initiatives will require sustained political will . in addition , the uk must ensure that its agricultural sector can take new technologies to its advantage .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the heart of a great , risky experiment . key interest rates have remained near zero for the next six years now . financial markets are awash in liquidity , and they are not only in the us , which is not yet at least a half . crisis management of the us has generated major market distortions , with some segments of the performance of the segments no longer quite “ coveninable ” by fundamental economic data . the unintended implications of that policy are increasingly visible – and will increasingly become tangible with america ’s federal reserve ’s exit from post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policies .
it is easy to forget that years before , telephones had n’t buttons or cordial – you had to pick up handsets , asking an operator to get connections . telephone dial did not appear until 1919 , in which the first set of self-designated “ user interscientists ” was first identified at western electric , when the most intuitive form , if anything , should be . when improving computer interface is taken , form is key . we saw hints at the apple iphone ’s new paradigm that allows gestural finger motions , but in the intelligence community , concept visualization can be so radical that most ordinary users might barely recognize what it was . designs come from cognitive science , arts , even science fiction .
but that is not yet the whole story , either . as plato is telling us , prometheus ’s name means “ foresight , ” because he has always been looking forward , unlike his carefree brother , epimetheus , whose named means “ hindsight . ” as the two more rational and justifiably paranoid , prometheus tried to warn his brother not to accept zeus ’s dangerous gift . but epimetheus were charmed by pandora and heedlessly welcomed her . it was only later that he was emerging to realize her appalling error .
chances , indeed , are that they will do this again , and the other way will be . indeed , downplaying the gravity of the latest crisis is easy : one can argue that the immediate cause of the breakdown , when explored closely , is not really all that serious . the crux of the problem is that the draft constitution would give the entire eu a new , much easier method for taking majority voting in the council of ministers . under the method adopted at this month ’s nice summit three years ago , each member country has some of the voters weighted according to the population ; but little countries protect proportionally more votes than the big ones . the current system is known to be qualified majority voting .
rome – the prices of many staple foods expanded dramatically during 2007-2008 , creating a food crisis for many poor and developing countries alike . for example , international prices of maize , rice , and wheat reached their highest levels in 30 years , generating policy and economic instability – and leading to food riots – in many countries . several factors contributed to the crisis , including soaring world oil prices , high demand for crops from bio-fuels , falling global stockpiles of food commodities , and lower cereal production . robust economic growth and expansionary monetary policies were further bolstered by the trend , owing to protectionist measures such as export-led restrictions . while these factors undoubtedly have placed upward pressure on food prices , they can not explain the steep hikes alone .
the similarities to the islamic state ’s views are glaring . in a video produced after the battle for mosul dam in august , the group invited a “ end of sykes-picot , ” declaring the need to redraw the western-imposed political map of the middle east . erdoğan ’s ambition to re-establish turkey ’s primacy in the sunni world drives him into collude with this call to the western-devised regional order . indeed , turkey has offered logistical support to the islamic state , despite allowing its murderous members to massacre thousands of civilian kurds and yazidis in the syrian town of kobani on turkey ’s doorstep . this highlights another issue on which both turkey and the islamic state converge : the kurds .
so far , he has refrained from claiming outright that these markets act at the behest of “ world jewry ” ( architects , many turkish islamists believe , of the 1908 young turk revolution , and the secular republic that arose after world war i ) . but his core supporters hear the dog whistle behind his condemnations of the forces of finance – forces that now appear to be demanding higher interest rates . but perhaps no current leader is more susceptible to misbegotten science and half-baked conspiracy theories than america ’s president and wannabe ’s authoritarian , donald trump . it should never be forgotten that trump wormed his way into us politics , by promoting the racist “ birther ” argument that claimed that then-president barack obama was not born in the us and thus did n’t qualify for a offices he held . since entering the white house , lunacy has only grown .
at the same time , we are doing everything possible to make ukraine attractive to foreign investors . in the energy sector , we are privatizing state-owned energy distributors . to ensure total transparency of bid for the tender process , and eliminate the problems experienced in the past , western advisers are assisting us . for our intention is to attract large western energy firms with experience on the field as strategic investors . indeed , ten leading international energy companies , indeed , will participate in the privatization of the first group of firms .
even so , china 's " state-capitalist " economic model , now mimicked elsewhere in the region , is markedly different from china 's policy choices . japan , korea , and singapore , of course , had similar policy models in the past ( albeit later they adapted them in line for gdp growth ) . now these countries , however , are once again espousing forms of state capitalism and a return to industrial policy ( encouraged , as was by a 2008 global financial meltdown , giving a new rationale for the return to government intervention ) . in japan , postal services that were privatized are to be re-nationalized . japan 's air lines , nearly bankrupt , were rescued by government bailouts .
without the ecb ’s commitment since 2012 to prevent sovereign-debt yields from soaring , a persistent risk would be at risk for the rest of the eurozone – and , indeed , of the european union ’s entire edifice – of sovereign-debt defaults . but at least europe has also benefited from falling commodity prices . by contrast , many emerging economies , highly dependent on commodity export earnings , have been stressed by the commodity-price reset , sluggish growth in advanced economies , and slower growth in china . capital flight would materially complement their plight – in some cases disastrously so . since the 2008 financial crisis , the world has become accustomed to such linkages and spillovers .
let the world recall that gaza ’s crisis is a manmade disaster . and let the world take note that conditions are worse today than at any given time since the occupation began . seventy-9 % of gaza ’s households live in extreme poverty ; eight out of ten depend on food assistance . nearly half the labor force is unemployed ; local industry has collapsed . water and wastewater systems are failing ; trash is up in streets .
new york – the european union needs to accept responsibility to lack a common asylum policy , transformed this year ’s growing influx of refugees from a manageable issue to yet another political crisis . every member state has been selfishly focused on one ’s own interests , often acting against the interests of others . this precipitated panic among asylum-seekers , the general public , and the authorities responsible for the rule of law and order . asylum-seekers were the leading victims , the european union . the eu needs a comprehensive plan to respond to the crisis , one that reasserts effective governance across the flows of asylum-seekers in order to assume the safety , orderly fashion , and , at an pace that reflects the capacity of europe to absorb it .
economists would concede that xi ’s campaign has also conveniently removed the many of his potential rivals . but they would argue that his strengthened position now enables him to replace the credit-financed credit-fueled growth model with something more sustainable . whether they are right to see this remains , of course . notwithstanding xi ’s success in consolidating power and broadening his hold indefinitely , there is reason to doubt that he would be willing to gamble in another economic model if sustainability proves incompatible with sustaining a rapid growth model . this is where technologists come , by offering new ways to correct or avoid potential mistakes .
america ’s economist martin feldstein wrote in 1997 that monetary union would create conflict within europe . at that time , he derided , viewing himself as europe ’s entrenched adversary . unfortunately , his insight was rightly correct : european countries today are loggerheads not despite their common currency , but because of it . history suggests that international disputes over debt and transfers pose serious risks . in the 1920 ’s and 1930 ’s , representatives of european states devoted countless meetings to resolving them ( at a time mainly german reparations ) .
whereas the main distinction in nineteen eighty-four is among rulers and ruled , in brave new world , humans are divided into diverse social orders defined by divergent tastes and lifestyles . the same could be said of china today , where the gaps between rich and poor , urban and rural populations , and between coastal and inland culture are so great that it is much tougher than before people from varied walks of life feel that they share common plights and goals . of course , no single novel provides a perfect lens through which to view any society . sometimes , such as when violence was recently used to quell south chinese peasant farmers protesting official land grabs , the ccp still shows its willingness to take advantage of “ boot-on-the-face ” political order . still , there have been more moments recently , which favors huxley ’s vision of political order over that of orwell .
similar trends are being observed in many european countries in the same way , particularly in southern europe . this suggests that progressive politicians , envisage the active role of government , in reshaping economic opportunity , are facing uphill battle in winning the electorate . the fear of losing that battle can explain timidity in the left ’s response . yet the lesson of recent studies is that beliefs about what the government can , and should not , are immutable . they are susceptible to persuasion , experience , and changing circumstances .
copenhagen – in one of his first public policy statements as the american president-elect , barack obama shifted attention toward climate change , making the two priorities explicit , and clearly stated both facts on which those priorities rest . unfortunately , both are weak or even wrong . obama ’s policy outline was presented via video video to california governor arnold schwarzenegger ’s governorbiting summit on global warming , again manifested in poznan , poland , to the leaders assembled to flesh out a worldwide warming roadmap . judging by obama , “ few challenges facing america and the world are more urgent than tackling climate change . ” such a declaration is now commonplace for most of the world ’s political leaders , even as it neglects to address the question of how much we can do to help america and the world through climate-change policies versus any of the other policies .
before forming an overseas empire – first in north america and the caribbean , subsequently to india and southeast asia , english built the land empire – by expanding from the south of the british isles to northwestern . thus , while the “ outer empire ” allowed to convergence with the uk ’s divergent national identities around shared british identity , the “ inner empire ” was decidedly english . still , for centuries , the british empire generated wealth , supplied raw material , creating globe-spanning professional opportunities for all inhabitants of the british isles . its “ civilizing ” mission created a sense of collective meaning , as was the narrative of uninterrupted democratic and economic advances in the region . but fusion of identities has always been incomplete , not at least in ireland , where the fallout from independence still reverberates in a century later through the uncertainty generated by the northern irish “ backstop . ”
freedom of expression and other fundamental rights , for their part , are not elitist luxuries , as authoritarians claim . they are indispensable to safeguarding free societies , but they remain indispensable . moreover , a concerted anti-corruption campaign could serve as a unifying force in countries with deep political divisions . whereas majoritarian government can ride roughshod over minority interests , corrupt regimes steal from all . that is why it has spurred corruption in the past year , from bucharest to brasilia for mass protests in recent years .
in trump ’s geopolitical and economic views , one should judge against this background of disenchantment , not with an ideal moral or economic standard . in other words , trumpism could be the solution to the crisis of liberalism , not a portent of its disintegration . viewed in this way , trump ’s isolationism is a populist way of saying that it needs the us to withdraw from the commitments it does not have the strength or the will to honor . the promise to work with russia to end savage conflict in syria is sensible , despite the fact that it implies a victory for bashar al-assad ’s regime . disengaging peacefully from the exposed global responsibilities of the us , trump ’s biggest challenge will be .
madrid – back in 1996 , binyamin netanyahu won a general election by mobilizing big constituencies against then-prime minister shimon peres ’s supposedly intent to “ divide jerusalem . ” nearly two decades later , netanyahu remains committed to old , vacuous slogans about a “ united jerusalem ” – a conviction that might yet unravel the israeli-palestinian peace process . as us secretary of state john kerry prepares to present a framework agreement for a conclusive round of israeli-palestinian peace negotiations , netanyahu ’s hardline position on jerusalem is simply a non-starter . in a last-minute ditch effort to improve the proposal ’s chances of success , us president barack obama – who largely avoided taking on a proactive part in the peace process during his second term – met with netanyahu at the white house to urge him to moderate his position . but changing netanyahu ’s mind will not be easy – not least because of the domestic political pressure that he is facing .
new haven – late summer marked the beginning of another season of futile policymaking by the world ’s two leading central banks – america ’s federal reserve and the bank of japan . the fed did nothing that is precisely the problem . and the alchemists at the boj unveiled yet another feeble unconventional policy gambit . both the fed and the boj are pursuing strategies that are woefully disconnected from the economies they are tasked with managing . moreover , their latest actions reinforce a deepening commitment to the increasingly insidious transmission mechanism between monetary policy , financial markets , and asset-dependent economies .
today , in the strategic environment marked by terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , russia has become an extremely much part of the solution . unless the prague summit presents any grand new initiative , it is simply because we have already embarked on a new nato-russia relationship last may at our special summit in rome . new nato-russia council resolution in rome offers us an effective and flexible mechanism for joint analysis ; common decisions and even joint action . much of the last six months has been achieved to transform the roma ’ political message into practical cooperation . it was henry kissinger who argued after the terrorist attacks of new york and washington of 2001 that tragedy could turn to opportunity .
to the outside world , suleimani was mastermind of regime terrorist activities outside the iran , and his puppet master of proxies throughout the region rather than least hezbollah in lebanon . yet , to iranians , he was a more complicated figure . while regime hardliners regarded him as a hero , many iranians who lost loved ones in peaceful demonstrations , or object to regime strikes on iranian dissidents in the diaspora , perceived him differently . over the last few years , however , the regime has been pressing a clever public-relations campaign to depict suleimani as napoleon – or catherine ashton himself as a caesa-like poet . and , as one of the few islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) commanders , not tainted with allegations of corruption , he mooted as a likely presidential nominee in the next election , in which case he was a leading contender .
yet he has also wants to boost the economy with € 50 billion ( $ 55 billion ) in stimulus package and extend the welfare state . to square the circle , macron needs growth , relying on supply-side reforms to deliver that . he plans to cut his corporate-tax rate from 33 % to 25 % , and eliminate financial capital investment from a wealth tax . a vocal critic of protectionism will push the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement ( nafta ) , as well as the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states . his endorsement of an el khomri law making it easier to fire workers , and his opposition for a 35-hour week , indicates his desire to raise french labor markets ’ “ flexibility . ”
prague : many americans seem overwhelmed by feeling that , because the soviet empire collapsed , the dangers of war can be crossed off a list of potential risks , too . america , they argue , should pay attention to its own challenges , and should not engage in a world where its attempts to make good are rewarded by ingratitude . isolationism has a long tradition in america ; it returns to fits and differing forms . never in the modern world have isolationism been able to protect america from the danger ; instead , it delays engagement when the global health organization ablaze its its its own . in the end , america pays 1,000 times more for its initial lack of interest than it would pay it to become engaged in the onset of a crisis or , better yet , even before .
here , too , creative solutions can be found . using the asset-backed security model , we have recently joined with the un green climate fund , and china to structure the $ 450 million “ green bond ” facility , an facility that is the world ’s largest . this will make it possible to fund pension funds and insurance companies indirectly essential equipment upgrades in mom-and-pop stores and workshops , from tijuana to titilla del fuego . there are many other areas where those pledged to fight climate change can follow the us example . traffic-clogged cities need improved public transportation , financing the prevalence of bus swift transit ( brt ) systems is a proven path to reduce congestion , emissions , and commuting costs .
at once , eurobonds , the china-led green partnership ( spd ) , and unity within europe , could make all the difference . such an alliance would also enable a new foreign policy for europe , one that fosters peace and sustainable development , underpinned by new security arrangements that are not so heavily dependent on the american people . europe , a magnet for hundreds of millions of would-be economic migrants , could , and i believe it will regain control of its borders , enable it to step up and enforce the necessary limits on migration . the political terms of a grand new grand coalition government would have seemed obvious . the spd should hold ministerial leadership to economic and financial policy , while the cdu/csu holds the chancellorship .
fortunately , that is precisely what abe intends to do . in any case , the success of monetary policy is difficult to deny . as the deflation gap narrows , however , the overall impact of monetary policy will be weakened because it increasingly influences a more expansionary effect on prices than on output . that is why it is time for japanese leaders to shift their focus from demand-focused first and second arrows into supply-side “ third arrow ” – the new growth strategy . when there is enough excess supply in the economy , encouraging supply-side productivity is practically useless without efforts to spur demand .
race has always been a provocative topic when the needs of science and statistics intersect with politics . now that the debate is once again heating up in france because the planned introduction of “ ethnic statistics ” has generated a fierce dispute that touches the very heart of french republicanism . according to a law dating back to the french revolution , and again confirmed in the 1978 french government ’s , french government officials are forbidden to collect information about citizen or racial origins , whether real or alleged when conducting a census or any other effort to rally statistical information on the population . there are two main reasons for this . the first is the republican principle enshrined in the constitution that recognizes only citizens , and that accepts none of the distinction among them as a result of origin , race , or religion .
nobody prefers to live in a society where bribes must be paid in order to secure basic public services like health care and schooling . eliminating corruption will be possible only with an efficient combination of smart prevention strategies and robust law enforcement , underpinned by the conviction that greed can be unlearned , accountability can be taught , and impunity can end up . prevention should begin with education aimed at raising citizens ’ expectations for their leaders . in politics and business , integrity and accountability must be the rule , not the exception . knowledge-sharing across countries could illuminate the most effective strategies toward achieving such an goal .
ministers are being forced to resign in these countries for petty infractions that would appear trivial in other countries . convincing american , russian , nigerian , or chinese citizens that corruption may , indeed , be controlled , seem to be a futile task . but the goal is certainly worth embracing as evidence becomes overwhelming : impunity is not only morally noxious ; it is also economically costly and deeply corrosive to well-being . recent studies have shown that once “ generalized trust ” is high in society , economic performance improves , and life satisfaction has been higher . in other ways , commercial agreements are more easily reached and effectively implemented .
in the same way , as they were put it , the fed could be constrained by a “ use of fiscal adrenaline ” just when it needs most . “ restock up an emergency arsenal ” there is an urgent need to occur , especially when there is relatively little scope to relax monetary policy . the fed began a process of normalizing monetary policy , but it has not completed the job , with president donald trump doing what it can to avoid by heckling on the sidelines . three musketeers remain positive on some elements of its post-crisis program . bank capital has been greatly strengthened , and transparency of derivatives markets materially strengthened .
human rights need not take a back seat to doing business with china . as a case in point , many western observers thought that norway ’s trade relationship with china would be undermined when dissident liu xiaobo was invited to obtain the nobel peace prize , in oslo in december 2010 . china complained loudly , refusing to permit liu to pick up the prize , and even threatened norway with financial consequences . the same month , however , one of china ’s largest oil companies concluded the drilling contract with norway ’s statoil , clearly signaling that diplomatic tensions would not stop business . so western diplomats negotiating with china should call lower-level officials ’ bluff , and target a signal-noise ratio bearing in mind that ultimately decisions are taken quietly at the higher level by pragmatic leaders who are actually susceptible to pressure .
that implies a shift in focus from speculative and proprietary trading toward lending and job creation – which implies financial-sector regulation and anti-trust and corporate-governance laws combined with adequate enforcement to ensure that markets do n’t become rigged casinos . globalization has made all countries more interdependent , to turn requiring greater global cooperation to occur . one might hope that america will display more leadership in reforming the global financial system by advocating stronger international regulation , the global reserve system , and better ways to restructure sovereign debt ; in tackling global warming ; and in democratizing the international economic institutions ; and in providing assistance to poorer countries . americans should hope for all , though not sanguine , for much . & more likely , america will muddle through – here another bit program for struggling students and homeowners ; the end of bush ’s tax cuts for millionaires ; but no wholesale tax reform ; serious cutbacks in defense spending ; or major progress on global warming . with the euro crisis likely to continue unabated , america ’s continuing malaise does not bode well for global growth .
that issue , of course , is utterly outside of israel ’s control . the ongoing struggle in the muslim world between sunnis and shi’a recalls the struggle between protestants and catholics in seventeenth-century europe . little wonder , then , that the saudis , jordanians , egyptians , and the gulf states alike are working for opposition to iran ’s hegemonic ambitions in the region . nevertheless , the stakes are far greater than in the seventeenth century , because iran represents the threat that combines a fanatic religion with a determination to acquire a nuclear weapon . indeed , iran is the only country that openly declares its desire to destroy another united nations member .
the strategic significance of the dramatic heights , overlooking most of palestine ’s northern israeli region galilee in recent months , is obvious . because syria , bereft of soviet support , is less a threat to israel , jerusalem may be more flexible than it did before when the golan was a glacis defending israel not only against syria , but against a bloc seemingly extending all the way to vladivostok . so , despite today ’s interruptions of the talks , a context for negotiations exists , together with the political will on both sides . the agendas for both parties are different , however : while syria focuses on the symbolic significance of the return of the golan heights , israel wants specific , entrenched assurance regarding the security of its northeastern borders , as well as an end to syrian-supported hizbullah incursions from lebanon – a country virtually a syrian protectorate . for israel ’s quid pro quo of return to the golan is no piece of paper with the usual phrases about peace and coexistence .
in the fall of 1989 , east germans rallied together their fellow citizens in the protests which brought down the berlin wall , a german military officer . but , during the same year in china , protesters in beijing crushed troops from inner mongolia who did n't understand mandarin , and had little sympathy for big-city dwellers . while army units or riot squads ( omon ) stationed in moscow are too disgruntled in the recent police and military reforms to participate in a bloody clampdown , special-operations forces from provinces staffed with chechen war veterans could cherish the excitement of sticking it to moscow fat cats . likewise , army officers from poorer regions are more grateful for a salary hike that putin ’s united russia party , with much fanfare , shortly prior to the recent duma elections , has announced . but , whereas some segments of the security apparatus might support an initial crackdown , violent repression would be difficult to sustain .
but not proceeding would also have been a disaster . the 1992 crisis proved unstable in the existing system . not moving forward to the euro would have laid europe for even more disruptive crises , and it has now been a step forward . that is why europe ’s leaders have pursued the ambitious steps they have done so . not proceeding now with bank recapitalization and government bond purchases would similarly result in catastrophic disaster .
to be sure , the american claims that , too , all of democracy knows all . but its cognitive dissonance – criticizing the egyptian regime while continuing to supply it with military hardware – may serve only to undermine bilateral relations , just as america ’s approach to musharraf ’s regime thoroughly eroded us-pakistani ties . moreover , the consequences of such foreign-policy waffling extend far beyond the middle east . back in november 2009 , when obama visited japan for the first time as president , he stressed that he is from hawaii and proud to be “ america ’s first pacific president . ” two years later , then-secretary of state hillary clinton published “ the american pacific century , ” which signaled a shift in america ’s global strategy .
mr. bush ’s international credibility , they should emphasize , suffers not through avoidance of war yet gains further through control of iraq ’s hitherto covert military effort . in order to give additional credence to praise , they should leave no doubt that if war became the only option for which america would confront . but they should also emphasize that war is not the only one , and certainly not the automatic “ serious implication ” to follow through on iraq failures . of course , some of america ’s allies are better suited than others to get these points across the audience across the atlantic , on the other side of the atlantic . alas , by its conduct in chancellor schroeder ’s campaign for re-election last september , germany maneuvered itself off having any authority over the matter .
africa ’s smallholder families – already burdened by soil degradation , climate change , and resource competition fueled by surging populations – face the challenge of an even more challenging bureaucratic hurdle : no paper that shows that the land they call home is theirs . their ability to control their farms next season is uncertain , with farmers ’ planning horizons dwindling . rather than invest , in terraced fields , planting trees , and buying high-quality fertilizer , africa ’s farmers are seeking to maximize short-term earnings . this is particularly true of female farmers who face a further thicket of discriminatory land laws and customs on their land . studies show that there is no way to reduce poverty , improve nutrition , and achieve other key development goals , without strengthening rights for land , especially for women .
i think germany will be better off in a decade beneath more neo-liberal policies . but this does not seem to be what the german electorate wants , and this makes the complexion of german politics the four years from now incalculable . combined with all this , northern european discontent with central bankers with the ecb and europe is in particular . it is not that the end of the european monetary union is on the agenda ; it is only that people have begun to start thinking about potential low-probability futures at which the end of the emu might be placed on the agenda . it is that enough to shake asset prices worldwide .
of course , its organizers are loath to describe it as the sunni party . rather , they are described as a domestic party that invites people of all orientations of participation . that vision holds great appeal among those who want to see less sectarian-based form of politics in iraq . but , within iraq , very few people – sunni or shia – are not seen by iraqis as a party dedicated to restoring sunni leadership . the results of the march 2010 general election gave iraqiyya 91 parliamentary seats , two more than the second-place finisher , maliki ’s state of the law coalition .
but many are “ zombie banks , ” with too many branches , too few deposits and funding costs far beyond their more successful peers . in fact , according to the international monetary fund , some one-third of europe ’s banking sector , representing assets worth $ 8.5 trillion , remains weak and incapable of generating sustainable profits . all of this creates major downside risks for the eu economy , and ultimately for the entire european political experiment . restoring stability in the european banking system by imf estimates will require at least one-third of the bank of europe to close or merge . for deutsche bank , market speculators already seem to expect some merger , such as with the bank of europe , another german institution .
they should take particular care to prevent real-estate bubbles because the real economy represents a huge fraction of total wealth and a key source of collateral in finance . but the powerful rise in low quality leveraged loans should also give rise to concern . none of this will be easy for governments , regulators , or central banks . monetary tightening may slow growth temporarily ; preventing the growth of bubbles is notoriously difficult ; and the kinds of structural reforms needed to secure a debt-fueled shift hardly seem popular . to be sure , today ’s febrile political environment will not simplify matters .
so it may be a good idea for the eu to prepare a mechanism that spells out how debt can be trimmed . many economists have argued this case on the basis of arithmetic calculation . but the european central bank , especially by the members of the ecb ’s governing council , has elegantly defined the case against debt reduction – a case that is politically significant and profoundly moral . indeed , the principles of not reneging on government debt are profoundly intertwined with the development of legal security , representative government , and modern democracy . in the wake of the glorious revolution of 1688 , when britain revolted against a spendthrift stuart dynasty , the british government adopted a new approach to debt reduction .
in fact , some conservative republicans have objected to the next appointment , marvin goodfriend of carnegie mellon university , for daring to suggest that the fed may need a new approach to monetary policy ( with negative interest rates ) to confront another very deep recession or financial crisis . and , although , someday , the fed would almost surely embrace this advice ( i have also made public on the issue ) , goodfriend ’s nomination barely survived the american senate banking committee . but by and large , the senate has been considering trump what it wants , and many republicans would have embraced a disrupter – for example , a disciple of ron “ end the fed ” paul – or another conservative preaching a return to preworld war i gold standard . unfortunately , the battle for fed independence is far from over . trump may just be keeping his powder dry until a real conflicts erupt .
yet india continues to face many challenges : nearly 300 million people living in poverty , the spreading naxalite insurgency , the danger of terrorist attacks ala mumbai , and sprawling urban slums . in addition , how will singh balance the trade-off between pro-market versus pro-poor policies ? how will singh manage rising middle class expectations of improved infrastructure , expanded access to health care and education , uninterrupted electricity and water supplies , and more efficient transport facilities ? these problems will not be solved overnight , either . but the rising conviction that tomorrow can be better will keep india ’s polity stable .
empirically , few firms get this right : america 's national public radio and bbc have been hacked by the us navy , while mcdonald 's and burger king recently had their twitter accounts compromised . the proliferation of security lapses means that people shrug their shoulders more than to cast their first stone at an earlier company that is breached . finally , the ap is unlikely to face financial sanctions for this mistake . a lawsuit for losses stemming from a hoaxed tweet would confront almost insurmountable obstacles . because few mechanisms can prevent hoaxed tweets from proliferation , and given the high-profile reaction that success hackers can expect , twitter will remain a vehicle of malicious hoaxes , even as technological barriers force attacks into more demanding activities .
detection means determining whether an extreme event is part of normal weather fluctuations , or a symptom of deeper , long-term change . attribution means the ability to assign the likely causes of an event to human activities or to other factors . new science of detection and attribution sharpenes our knowledge – and also give us an even larger reason for concern . several studies of the past year have shown that scientists can indeed detect long-term climate change in the rising frequency of extreme events – such as heat waves , heavy rains , severe droughts , and intense storms . by applying cutting-edge climate models , scientists not only detect long-term climate action ; they also ascrit at least some of the more extreme events to human causes .
a peer assessment process to which a g-20 country has agreed is a crucial component in the rebalancing agenda , for it is where the pieces of a cooperative growth strategy will be identified , evaluated , and assembled . if it works , what happens will emerge are commitments from g-20 countries to committed policies globally to which others are profiting – a condition that keeps their commitments on hold . the us may reduce its deficits faster than it does on non-cooperative counts , but only if surplus countries are working to reduce their outsize savings . rebalancing is not the only cooperative imperative . the international exchange-rate system is , at least partly , shattered .
given the power of major tech companies to stifle competition , reversing these trends will require government intervention . and , indeed , taming big tech became the main issue ahead of the united states ’ 2020 presidential election . senators bernie sanders – especially , republican senators bernie sanders and elizabeth warren – in my view , in the democratic party nomination ’s two strongest candidates , vying for challenge president donald trump – have called for breaking down major tech companies . yet the solutions that are being proposed , including legal scholars like lina khan , tend to focus on making antitrust laws more widely used . this approach is unlikely to work , because markets have been changing dramatically since antitrust legislation was conceived .
during each of my field visits , i marvel at how those efforts affect women ’s lives . on one recent trip , i was met with rasmatthea , a young mother who told me that , thanks to her savings group ’s safety net , she was managing to support her family despite her child emigration abroad , her father ’s recent death , and lingering drought . she diversifying her incomes , managing her finances , and even adopting climate-smart farming techniques . the best part was that she described herself as “ hardball , respectful , rigorous , and ambitious women . ” those are adjectives that women everywhere , regardless of their financial circumstances or education , deserve ascribe to themselves .
if you are a prudent and cautious investor , contemplate that possibility . stock values in the fossil-fuel industry – which are based on assuming that companies will extract and burn all known reserves – will plummet . investing in these companies turns out to be extraordinarily risky . as anyone who receives investment statements knows , “ past performance is no guarantee of future performance . ” that reality implies another compelling case for divestment , either .
it became apparent only in the late 1970s and 1980s that the soviet system could n’t compete against market-oriented capitalism . after the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 and the subsequent soviet collapse , that the world gave way to the g1 +1 order , in which all other countries ( n ) were unable to rival america as the sole global superpower . the ensuing quarter-century was the era of the liberal rules-based multilateralism itself . democratic and market-based capitalism had seemingly triumphed in what francis fukuyama described as the “ end of history . ” the us broadly championed this order – the 2003 iraq war as the obvious exception – and , like most countries , benefiting immensely from globalization and the emergence of new , complex value chains .
instead , after four years of falling real incomes , the government has announced deeply unpopular pension reform , which included increasing the retirement age . addressing russian economic grievances will not be any easy feat . russia ’s economy is under severe strain , following the western sanctions imposed over crimea . more important , russia ’s state-capitalist model has led to weak competition and declining incentives for private investment and entrepreneurship . faced with few rallying public sentiment options , putin may well decide that it is time to “ remind ” russians that they are under attack .
first , member states argue that they want to develop a common european foreign policy . at maastricht in 1991 , they established new institutions for doing so ; and at amsterdam last year ostensibly strengthened those institutions . yet , in practice , progress has not been detectable . in stark contrast to other aspects of europe ’s agenda . the objective of economic and monetary union and the single currency that was adopted at maastricht in 1991 is bold , even revolutionary , agenda ; some critics say reckless ; but the reality is that the single currency will become reality in just two months .
but broad international support will not come forthcoming unless military operations are perceived to be some form of western neo-imperialism . this past point has been at the heart of the problems in iraq . augmenting the us and british troops with other “ western-led ” forces would be , particularly at this end stage , a change of fundamental perception of the need for intervention , both in the arab world and beyond . only explicit , up-front approval of a reformed un security council can the legitimacy and international support that military action – with the possible exception of the explicit self-defense force – requires . this is true for actions contemplated by individual peoples , temporary alliances or more permanent alliances like nato .
this regional re-alignment requires not necessarily anti-western ones , but it surely will be as long as israel and/or the united states invade iran militarily . meanwhile , the civil war is raging in syria , accompanied by a humanitarian catastrophe . to be sure , president bashar al-assad ’s regime will not survive , but it is determined to fight for as long as the end ends there . syria ’s balkanization among a country ’s diverse ethnic and religious groups is a clearly predictable outcome . indeed , a bosnia-type scenario can no longer be ruled out , whereas the outlook for the syrian government ’s loss of control over its chemical weapons presents a more immediate threat to military intervention by turkey , israel , or the us .
in newsrooms from serbia to south africa , taxpayer-generated funding is increasing . unfortunately , as this windfall could be more programming on the air , it has only deepened the industry ’s woes . for many decades , governments have played a major role in domestic media , using regulation of broadcast frequencies and licensing demands to form the market . yet , in recent years , governments have also stepped up their budgetary clout . today , government budget allocations include leading sources of media revenues .
the next big step was the emergence of the concept of humanitarian intervention in the aftermath of the genocide in rwanda and balkan wars in the 1990s . consequently , the international law was reached to recognize the “ right of protection ” against governmental arbitrariness and states ’ crimes against their own people , despite the fact that enforcement remains fairly uncertain . finally , the same trend in policy and international law led to the creation of the international tribunal of justice ( icc ) . with its establishment coming from long and appalling experience , the fundamental idea behind modernity – that power for states and their rulers should be subject to the rule of greater law , thereby placing individual privileges above national sovereignty – has taken great steps forward . this development has been anything but accidental .
axelrod held tournaments among the major game theorists and political scientists to identify the most effective approach in the recurring prisoner dilemma game . the winner – the strategy most likely produces cooperative outcomes – was anatol rapoport ’s tit-for-tat ( tft ) strategies . according to ft ’s approach , the bilateral game should start with cooperation : if a other player behaves cooperatively , so should you . only if the other player defects – that is , begins to depict non-cooperative behavior – should you take the same thing . to be sure , in cooperating with the other player may be tempted to defect as a way to increase one ’s own payoff – and potentially even secure some windfall .
as for the right threat , anybody hoping for a region ’s peace process and reducing tensions within india are relieved of defeat for india ’s hindu , nationalist bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) party . the bjp ’s strategy of painting congress as soft on terror and demonizing muslims as an existential threat to india badly fired . unfortunately , nonetheless , the economic trajectory that congress intends to plot , while potentially well spurring short-term growth , is ultimately on a collision course with both equity equity and sustainability . despite rhetoric over “ inclusive growth , ” india ’s wealth gap has widened during an exceptionally rapid economic expansion years . india ’s malnourished children live in india , the majority of the world ’s malnourished children .
but it is fairly clear that even the 1970s , there was not enough empirical evidence to promote friedman ’s ideas to justify his growing dominance . and , indeed , there can be no denying friedman ’s cure that proven to be an insufficient response to the great recession – strongly indicating that it would fall similarly short of it had been tried in the great depression . the dominance of friedman ’s ideas in the early stages of the great recession has had less to do with the evidence supporting it than it was with the fact that science of economics is all too often tainted by politics . in that case , there is so wrong that policymakers were willing to navigate beyond friedman and apply keynesian and minskyite policies on a large enough scale in order to address the problems presented by the brilliant recession . admitting that the monetarist cure was inadequate would require mainstream economists to swim against the neoliberal currents of our age .
berlin – ever since the global financial crisis erupted in september 2008 , the european union has been in turmoil . on the one hand , the euro has been safeguarded by the eurozone , particularly germany ’s export-driven economy , in response to speculative assaults and chaos , and it has fueled currency volatility . by contrast , the second phase of the crisis mercilessly exposed the euro ’s achilles heel : the absence of economic or financial unification within the eurozone . rising tensions within the eu have been the inevitable outcome . germany ’s actions throughout the crisis were unambiguously conflicted .
after all , the oppressive nature of the regime in khartoum is at the root of many of the conflicts that have torn the country apart . if the government in khartoum persists in undermining the reform process and derailing the referendum on self-determination promised to the south in january 2011 , a return to full-scale civil war , with disastrous consequences for sudan and the region as a whole , is a real possibility . sudan ’s government ’s commitment to the cpa was always equivocal . indeed , since the end of the civil war in 2005 , sudan ’s people ’s liberation army ( spla ) in the south have often been confronted by militias operating as government proxies . moreover , sudanese security forces continue to arm arab tribes straddling the north-south border with an aim to destabilize the mostly christian south .
( hydroelectric power generation emits little co2 , but only a few remaining places are left to the world where it can be scaled up without a large environmental or social cost . ) the other solution is capture co2 emissions at underground storage ( ccs ) . but this technology , so-called carbon capture and sequestration ( ccs ) , is still not proven on a large scale . one approach is to capture co2 at power plants as either coal or gas is burned . another is to capture it directly from aviation , using specially engineered chemical processes .
in the post-crisis financial order , governments must take on the role of monitoring to and regulate pay in financial firms ; otherwise , the perverse incentives contributing to the current crisis could easily recur . it is important to distinguish between two sources of concern about pay pay in us financial firms . one set of concerns arises from shareholders ’ perspective . figures recently released by the new york attorney general andrew cuomo have indicated that nine large financial firms paid their employees aggregate compensation above $ 600 billion in 2003-2008 – a period in which their aggregate market capitalization substantially declined . such patterns can raise concerns among shareholders that pay structures is not well designed to serve their interests .
so manufactured even-handedness is tantamount to “ fake news . ” it is time to call spade a spade : the republican party is overwhelmingly to blame . consider the “ bump stocks ” issue , gun modification that the perpetrator of the las vegas massacre has been used to fire more quickly . some republican senators have now been drawing praise for indicating that they will support a ban on the facility . but when democratic senator dianne feinstein proposed a similar ban in 2013 , republicans overwhelmingly opposed her .
by 2000 , that share had fallen to more than 22 % , and , by 2010 , to 11 % , with little more than 3 % living in outright destitution . chile is very different today since chile 20 years ago ; today , it is just 20 years ago . the 29 % who have left the poverty line beyond is now the incipient middle class with new ambitions and goals . as a result , demands for more opportunities and better living conditions have grown louder . chileans have clamoring for the right housing , access to improved healthcare service , a safer environment , and access to higher education – the most critical factor driving social advancement .
clinton is the only person known to have launched her campaign twice . ( iowa , which speaks to about eight people at closed meetings , has not worked well . ) this impressive , remarkably smart female is only not the sense for policy demanded at the top . success in us presidential politics requires superb intuition , taking quick on one feet , and , above all , compelling rationale for running . true , clinton is offering numerous programs that she will push as president ; but , to borrow from winston churchill , there ’s no theme to her pudding .
only a year ago , at the imf ’s annual meeting in washington , dc , senior staff told anyone to listen that the whole european sovereign-debt panic was the tempest in a teapot . using slick powerpoint presentations with titles like default in today ’s advanced economies : futile , undesirable , and unlikely ” the fund tried to convince investors that eurozone debts were solid as the rock . even for greece , the imf argued , debt dynamics were not a matter of serious concern , thanks to predicted growth and reform . never mind the obvious flaw in the fund ’s logic , namely that countries , such as greece and portugal , faced policy and implementation risk far more akin to emerging markets than to truly advanced economy such as germany and the united states . as things deteriorated , one might have guessed that the imf would mark its beliefs about markets , as it did , adopting a more cautious tone .
another alternative , aided by a large and growing body of research in economics and psychology , is direct measurement of wellbeing , or happiness . surveys of reported levels of wellbeing now exist for a wide variety of countries , and the idea of cutting to chase by acting this as a metric of prosperity has a powerful advocate . yet this option has several drawbacks , including the fact that wellbeing indicators are changing little over time . happiness surveys in rich countries , for example , typically show scores of six or seven on a 0-10 scale . one way to make such indicators more directly relevant to policy would be to track ways people use their time and attach wellbeing action to each other .
if this is the metric , then , despite her accomplishments , thatcherism was the failure . the shift towards finance that thatcher promoted heightened inequality and made the economy even more volatile . her “ right to buy ” policy triggered an upward spiral in house prices , which encouraged households to take on more and more debt . a 1986 “ big bang , ” which de-regulated financial services , produced risky behavior in the city ’s norm . these reforms sowed seeds of the 2008 financial crisis .
yes , the imf maintains impressive analytical edge , owing to its talented and dedicated personnel as well as its unique links to countries . yes , it has made important strides in improving its understanding of the relationship between financial markets and the real economy . and , yes , it has validated the lead in shining more light on the economic implications of gender inequality and climate change . but its forward-looking analyses have so far become increasingly forward-looking , with its quantitative projections consistently subject to substantial revisions . even more worryingly , the fund ’s policy recommendations – particularly those pertaining to advanced-country economies – have little impact ( to put it politely ) .
this is particularly necessary because women 's situation is one of the main benchmarks that the outside world , and in particular the west , uses to evaluate the arab world . and , sadly , such assessments tend to focus on supposedly immobilism , who derives from islamic norms that obscures the knowledge of the real change that takes place . indeed , the predominant view of arab societies is often stitched by outsiders ' ability to break loose by their belief that islam confines all arab women simultaneously when in reality they experience very different conditions . this prevents many from seeing , much less evaluating , the deep changes that take place in arab societies - and how women are driving those changes forward . thus , western risks depriving ourselves of an important key to understanding today 's arab world , and as tomorrow it will .
in a lonely crowd , the american sociologist david riesman has identified three broad cultural kinds : tradition-directed cultures that look to the inherited rituals of rituals , morals , and values for guidance ; inner-directed cultures in whom peoples behave according to self-nourished values ; and other-directed cultures , which respond predominantly to external norms and peer influences . riesman ’s framework has particularly resonance in the arab world nowadays in which rising literacy rates and rapid advances in communications technology stirred the maelstrom of competing cultural narratives , with its three types competing to define the region ’s future . ironically , it is the combination of increased literacy and modern technology to fanning the flames of conflict among the two types of “ reformers ” – religious revivalists and western-oriented modernizers . taking advantage of their ability to mass-produce and instantly disseminate ancient religious texts and westernization of literature , the two camps are fighting the hearts and minds of otherwise traditional societies . according to the lebanese publisher samar abou-zeid ,
until recently , little reason was left to ask this question . china ’s economy grew at an astounding average annual rate of 10 % , or more , over three decades . in the last five decades , china overtook japan as the world ’s second-largest economy . hundreds of millions of chinese had gone into the middle class . china ’s authoritarian efficiency model seemed attractive to many other developing countries , particularly in the wake of the 2008 global financial crisis , which began in the united states and thus appeared to discredit american-style liberal capitalism .
then the us established permanent normal trade relations with china , refusing to brand its government as a currency manipulator . the reason that this narrative is misguided is straightforward . there are good reasons why america has embraced policies that encouraged poorer countries to grow rapidly through export-led industrialization . in helping mexico , the us , and other developing countries grow , america is getting richer trading partners . moreover , there is a powerful case for improved american national security if 50 years from now schoolchildren around the world learn how to have america helped their countries flourish rather than try to keep them as poor as it is possible for as long as possible .
but it is the open questioning whether the still-highly fragmented digital payment sector will help customers more than firms that offer payment solutions . there is one more serious problem with the arguments for cashless society : most people , at least in the eurozone , do not . according to an as-yet-unpublished survey by the european central bank of 65,000 eurozone residents , almost 80 % of all point-of-sale transactions are run in cash ; and , in terms of value added by more than half , cash is made . as is often the case in europe , the gap among the member states is pronounced : the share of cash transactions ranges from 42 % in finland to 92 % in malta . but , overall , the public ’s commitment to cash remains strong – and is becoming stronger .
tel aviv – the crisis in sinai on the sinai peninsula appears to have dwarfed sunday ’s drama in cairo . but egyptian president mohamed morsi ’s civilian coup , in which he dismissed general mohamed hussein tantawi as leader of the army ’s chief leadership , has not diminished the significance of trouble there . earlier this month , jihadi terrorist groups ambushed the egyptian military base in sinai , killing 16 egyptian soldiers . they then hijacked two armored personnel bearers and sped towards israel ’s frontier . one vehicle has failed to tear up border crossings ; another has penetrated israeli territory , before israel ’s defense forces ( idf ) were stopped .
but , because countries that largely rely on active diplomacy and soft power , everything they have to lose from protracted and escalating geopolitical conflict in which they will come under pressure to choose the sides . defending their own interests must ensure that global trade is subject to objective dispute-settlement mechanisms . a commitment to multilateralism is not endorsement of the status quo . cptpp member states recognize that the global trading system has problems , including incomplete or outdated rules that ignore issues like subsidies to soes . but they are also aware that bilateralism – small countries trying to negotiate on a equal footing with superpowers – is no option .
grassroots assessment of progress towards these indicators is aimed at complementing the government-run reporting mechanism . finally , some african “ sdg 16 champions ” are making the goal central to national planning , budgeting , and reporting . in kenya , all public-sector officials in sdg 16-related ministries , departments , and agencies have a obligation to sign performance contracts with a central government in which they identify sdg 16 targets and indicators relevant to their mandate , and explain how these are integrated into policy and development agendas . meanwhile , ghana and benin emphasize budget spending , which has a high sdg 16 impact , and ghana ’s government also publicly discloses how closely its financing priorities are aligned with its stated commitments under the target . moreover , several countries have found innovative ways to ensure that governments use new national sdg 16 data in their day-to-day decision-making .
on the global stage , it is hard to argue that inequality is one of the world ’s major political-economic problems . it is hard , at most , to envision alternative political arrangements or economic policies over the last fifty years that would transfer any significant fraction of the wealth of today ’s rich nations to today ’s impoverished nations . i can easily envision alternatives , such as the post-world war ii communist victories in italy and france , which would now have impoverished nations in the rich north ’s east . i can also envision alternatives that would have enriched poor nations : deng xiaoping ’s becoming china ’s leader in 1956 , rather than 1976 , would have done the job there . yet the alternatives that would have made the south richer at the price of reducing the north ’s wealth would have required a wholesale revolution of human psychology .
repayment on griesa ’s terms would devastate argentina ’s economy , as it stands . neml capital and the other vultures comprise just 1 % of creditors , but would receive $ 1.5 billion in total . other holdouts ( 6.6 % of the total creditors ) would receive $ 15 billion , and a total sum of the $ 100 billion that the other vultures received . and , because the debt restructuring stipulated that all of lenders who accept that it could demand the same terms as holdouts get , argentina could be on the hook to $ 140 billion more . every argentine might thus owe more to the debt than $ 3,500 – more than one-third of the global average per capita income .
it will be essential after bali to reflect seriously on the next phase for the wto and its role in the international trading system . the leading international finance institutions – the international monetary fund , the world bank , the european bank for reconstruction and development , and the regional development banks – have been forced to make difficult work for the twenty-first-century order . the authority of the united nations has frayed . until we reverse the trend toward declining multilateralism , governments ’ capacity to react to global challenges will not improve . business can moa and the media , but the answers to many parts of the world ’s great problems are more – or at least better – government , rather than less .
economists and moralists came together to believe that you should actually spend less than one would earn – in order to “ save ” for the proverbial rainy day or the old age . getting into debt was long associated with profligacy or fecklessness . and , if a person became indebted , it was a point of honor to repay the duty when it fell , owing to sales of assets , reducing consumption , work harder , or some combination of three . indeed , it was often more often than a tipping point : default on debt on time landed the debtor in jail . the same attitude governed institutional debt .
more broadly , marxism ’s emblematic defeat in 1989 allowed asian countries , including china and india , to pursue capitalist policies overtly . though china ’s economic renaissance was already beginning under deng xiaoping , the chinese communist party ’s post-1989 communist party was able to subordinate an ideology publicly to creating wealth . that example , in turn , had a constructive influence on surviving communist parties in asia and beyond . geopolitically , the post-1989 bargains extended far beyond the west . the soviet union ’s sudden collapse was a strategic boon to asia , eliminating an ominous empire and opening the way for china to pursue its own interests globally .
similarly , rather than condemning the taliban ’s acceptance of terrorist tactics in afghanistan , boko haram in nigeria , and al-shabaab in somalia , and the destruction of sufi shrines in mali by ansar dine in somalia , a radical islamist sect , muslim leaders have remained largely silent . while none of these groups represents a majority of views , they exert significant influence and probably believe that they are acting in the interest of the majority . developments following the arab spring might offer some indication of the prospect of a religious tolerance . indeed , in egypt , with its 10 % coptic orthodox minority , mohamed morsi won the presidency in a free , just election after which morsi resigned from the party , saying that it would enable him to represent all egyptians more effectively and promises to adhere to minorities ’ rights . yet subsequent actions designed to provide it unprecedented executive power raise fears about these early positive steps .
this group will unite with forces of democratization in both at home and abroad to establish a true democratic system . fourth , a reversal of the verdict on june 4th is the historic inevitability , as does the wish of most of china ’s people . june 4th weighs on the ghosts of any chinese patriot ; nearly every chinese person knows that official reevaluation is just a matter of time . indeed , the party ’s top leadership has been divided about the event ever since it occurred . today , many of those responsible for the decision to crack down – notably , deng xiaoping and the rest of the party ’s elders – have died .
mattarella ’s detractors would argue that it overstepped its authority and allowed the financial market to veto a popularly elected prime minister ’s choice by a popularly elected government . by joining the euro , italy ceded monetary sovereignty to an external , independent decision-maker of the european central bank . it also made specific liabilities with respect to the behavior of its fiscal policy even as these constraints are not as “ hard ” as those framing monetary policy . these obligations place real limits on the italian authorities ’ policy choices . in particular , the absence of an domestic currency means that italians can not choose their own inflation target or devalue its currency vis-à-vis foreign currencies .
once again , we see how wrong western national priorities can bring about a non-western nation . in any contest of ideas , the extreme will usually triumph over the moderate . in pakistan , an extremist now wears islamic garb , and stands for the creator , for faith and a theocratic order . what , incidentally , might pakistan ’s liberal stand for ? indeed , who , in pakistan , calls the liberal , democratic country ? in pakistan , congested alleys of lahore , karachi , peshawar , or quetta , a yearning is not for a democratic liberalism , but for believers , to unite behind a single true faith .
there are strong grounds for believing that they should . japan has relatively strict laws protecting the welfare of animals . for example , the majority of mammals need to slaughter in ways minimizes their pain and distress as much as possible . these laws are akin to regulations implemented by much of the abattoirs in the industrialized world , which require stunned animals – rendered unconscious with gas and insensitive to pain – when they have throats , and were “ bled out . ” there are of course circumstances where stunning failure and animals are killed as fully conscious ; but when stunning works properly , it does reduce the suffering of animals .
cambridge – president donald trump ’s critics have consistently underestimated his ability to communicate policy communication , perhaps because he is so different from his predecessors like franklin d. roosevelt and ronald reagan . both fdr and reagan , after all , were known as “ great communicators . ” though great segments of the american population hate , fdr and reagan addressed the american people as a whole , and tried to appeal to the center . trump , by contrast , appealed mainly to a minority that elected him . his inaugural address sounded like a campaign speech ; after taking office , a series of false statements and provocative executive orders undercut his credibility with the center but reinforced it with his foundation .
far more important to achieving price stability was the advent of the modern independent central bank , an instrument that helped push inflation dramatically down global levels . yes , a few places , such as venezuela , still have triple-a price growth , but now rarities are now being held . it is very likely that had instead of joining the eu , italy and spain simply granted their central banks more autonomy , they would have low inflation today . greece is arguably the less-obvious case ; but , considering that many impoverished african countries were able to keep their inflation well within single digits , one can presume that greece would manage as well . indeed , if southern european countries were to keep their own currencies , they might never have dug into as large a debt hole , and would have options for partial default through inflation .
cohn ’s sin was to allow it to become known publicly that it almost resigned following last month ’s violence in charlottesville , va. when trump equated the white supremacist and neo-nazi demonstrators , many had armed , with those who opposed them . actually , one may have some sympathy for a president with an aide who wants to have it both ways as cohn did – letting his apparent anguish know without acting on it . but problems can be raised when a president chooses to disregard his chief economic adviser . cohn has been viewed as one of the administration ’s more moderate voices , and he has been seeking to succeed janet yellen as chair of america ’s federal reserve . speculation about the possibility of “ new trump ” peaked in early september , when the president suddenly cut a deal with the democratic congressional leaders .
but risks are as real as potential rewards . resource industries are persistent sources of corruption , conflict , and degradation . mineral and hydrocarbon deposits are often located in less-developed countries that suffer from preexisting governance constraints , political instability , and major developmental and ecological challenges . transparency – full disclosure of everything from contracts to revenue management and environmental commitments – is crucial for realizing the sector ’s economic potential , avoiding conflict and collapse . on may 17 , the advocacy organization oxfam america sued america ’s securities and exchange commission to issue its final rule implementation section 1504 of the 2010 dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act .
links with west africa are close and back over the past century , with nearly 50,000 indians , or some people of indians living in the region , with almost 50,000 . indeed , scores of people fly between accra , lagos , freetown , monrovia , abidjan , and new delhi , mumbai , calcutta , or chennai on a daily basis , transiting through the middle east or europe . while exit controls are placed in every international airport in affected regions , the virus ’s incubation period ( which averages eight days in current outbreaks , but can rise to 21 days ) means that somebody with no symptoms of the latest infection could make a trip to india without triggering alarms . recently , personal experience at new delhi airport indicated that nominal arrival checks , just as the government demands , were loosely enforced , with an amount of passengers exiting the terminal holding completed ebola information card , which were supposed to be handed over into immigration officials . india ’s government seems unlikely to be able to keep tabs on all arrivals in west
new york – british prime minister david cameron ’s government has reported some of the country ’s most draconian public-sector cuts to any of the advanced government has ever attempted . indeed , his education minister recently declared that funding for britain ’s universities will be slashed , as far back as 40 % . most shocking aspect of the move , however , is that arts and humanities departments will be targeted more aggressively than the science and engineering supposedly better for entrepreneurship . the war against the arts and humanities is nothing new – though this is the first time that the fighting has migrated so directly to britain . ronald reagan pioneered a wave of policy and propaganda in the united states in the 1980 ’s that demonized the us national endowment of arts .
when i visited tripoli in march 2010 for a conference of “ national reconciliation , ” conflicting statements issued by saif al-islam and security leaders surprised me . the head of internal security forces , colonel al-tuhami khaled , the another principal suspect of the crimes currently being committed against libyans , refused to call the process a “ reconciliation . ” for him , it was “ repentance from heresy . ” given the recent wave of uprisings , it is more apparent than ever that any “ reform ” initiative undertaken in the arab world had previously been targeted solely at sustaining oppressive dictatorships and escaping punishment for criminal abuses of the power . reform “ debate ” inside these regimes boiled down to the struggle between the various branches of the security-military apparatus over the best way to preserve the status quo .
if credit expands too rapidly , the fed can raise the interest rate it pays on deposit deposits . sufficiently high rates will induce commercial banks , which would prefer the fed ’s combination of liquidity , safety , and yield to expand the quantity of private bank lending . this , at any rate , is the theory ; nobody knows how it would be working in practice . how high would the fed – or the ecb for it – have to raise the interest rate on deposits to prevent over-growth in bank lending ? what if this rate of interest had to be 4 % , or 6 % , or even 8 % ?
policymakers at nanjing promised to address the issue as well . they tasked the g-20 with developing an array of indicators that would signal when any country , including the us and china , was at risk of crisis . they hailed the process as ensuring that when the warning lights flashed yellow , the country in question would be compelled to correct its policies . unfortunately , such early-warning indicators are better at reflecting on the most recent crisis than impeding the next one . the nature of financial risks continually changes in ways that are hard to predict , using backward-looking indicators like those conceived by the g-20 .
moreover , obama has sought to supplant hundreds of photographs depicting us-run sexual assault , and has done nothing to roll back the patriot act . why should obama , a constitutional scholar , be backtracking this way ? first , he dare not appear to be “ soft on terror . ” second , perhaps he needs a chance to try guantánamo detainees in a rigged setting or even keep them from trial forever : lawyers argue that torture , including sexual torture , has been so endemic in the cia and military , which obama could be holding scores if not hundreds ; of prisoners whose bodies are crime scenes . by wells dixon , a lawyer at the center for constitutional rights representing some us detainees , the obama administration can not risk calling torture practices crimes , so it calls them the “ classified sources and methods ” that can not be uncovered in court .
if the us authorities – specifically , the federal reserve and the fdic – determine that this is impossible , it is the legitimate power to force banks to alter how they operate , including by reducing their scale and scope . but the current reality is that no single tweeank could go bankrupt , without provoking yet another “ lehman moment ” – that is , the kind of global panic that resulted after lehman brothers failed in the september 2008 crisis . in particular , experts such as hoenig , who have thought about the cross-border dimensions of bankruptcy emphasize that it would simply not work for a corporation of jpmorgan chase ( $ 3.7 trillion in us assets ) or bank of america ( $ 3 trillion ) or citigroup ( $ 2.7 trillion ) . “ panic is about panic , ” hoenig says . “ there are no international bankruptcy laws governing these matters , and prevent asset capture . ”
paris – the central paradox of french politics has been re-confirmed on march 27 . in a nationwide vote to elect local authorities ( the so called konseiller gépiñal ) , the far-right national front ( spd ) gained 11 % of the popular votes cast , but secured just 0.1 % of the seats . this discrepancy between the national front ’s popular strength and its actual representation has been a permanent feature of french politics ever since jean-marie le pen set up the party 40 years ago . but le pen was replaced in january , with no less charismatic daughter , marine . and , with that change , the fate of the front may be changing .
with technical backing such as this , indonesia ’s government is creating an affordable , sustainable national health-care system that will be fully financed with domestic resources by 2019 . i believe the global fund is one of the smartest investments to make – as so many governments have come to understand since the start . the united states was the world fund ’s largest supporter , but so many others have done their part . australia , for example , has provided $ 410 million to the global fund in 2002 , a sum that has enabled the world ’s nearly 200,000 people to receive lifesaving hiv treatment , 80,000 people to receive tb treatment , the seven million people who would be expected to be cured of malaria , and 14 million bed nets to help families in need . the global fund brightened futures in the hands of hundreds of thousands of children across africa and asia – a heroic achievement that should make donor countries ’ citizens take pride .
new york – everyone – from elected officials and bureaucrats to voters and taxpayers to education , can learn from the world ’s largest charitable foundation about effective development spending . and these lessons are particularly relevant in a time that 56 % of europeans believe their governments should focus solely on domestic issues and allow recipient countries to deal with problems as they do best ( opposition to aid is even higher in france , poland , italy , hungary , greece ) . the united kingdom ’s largest-circulation sunday newspaper recently launched a petition calling for the end in aid spending ( worth 0.7 % of national income ) . prior to his election victory , us president donald trump railed against “ sending foreign aid to countries that hate us , ” reflecting a widespread belief that aid needs to be cut . the united states allocates less than 1 % of the federal budget to aid , but the average american believes this figure to thirty-one-fold .
but the first fell prey to the lengthy american occupation ; the second , currently , faces a us-led oil-export embargo aimed at throttle it financially . as a result , america ’s efforts to give an international effect to its new iran sanctions act constitute a double whammy for india . first , it risks sabotage india ’s energy-import diversification strategy by making it overly dependent on islamist-bankrolling the oil monarchies – including saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , and qatar – that have managed to ride out the arab spring . second , iran ’s further isolation will make it very difficult for india to play a more active role in afghanistan at a time when america is hastening its military disengagement there and seeks to sever its agreement with the taliban . india , one of afghanistan ’s largest aid donors , does not have a contiguous corridor to that country , and needs to rely on iran for access .
the critical obstacle to this proposal is the requirement of us congressional ratification to increase america ’s quota share . this opens the possibility that american voting power could fall temporarily below the 15 % threshold needed to veto decisions that require the support of 85 % of the imf ’s members ’ votes . to secure american support , the board of governors could not commit to considering any draft decision requiring that 85 % support without american consent . the resolution dividing the reform package could be included in that guarantee . it would remain valid until the american opposition were given its quota to increase and recover its voting share .
yet , nearly six months into the north african upheavals , the number in arrivals on the southern island of lampedusa has topped roughly 30,000 . by comparison , sweden , with one-sixth of italy ’s population , had accepted the same number of asylum-seekers as a share of gdp in 2009 . privately , italian officials confirm that current figures are not unmanageable . the problem for italian officials , as for other concerned governments , is the pressure of right-wing populist parties no longer on defensive issues . the case for openness , inclusion , and diversity in european societies has become much harder .
whereas this certainly impedes long-term economic growth and causes big structural challenges , it also means reacting to the state extraordinarily counter-cyclically-stabilizing and stabilizes an economy at an excellent scale , benefiting the entire world . the german state recorded a budget deficit of just 0.1 % of gdp in 2008 , a trend that , according to a recent oecd forecast , will soar to 4.5 % of gdp in 2009 . thus , the economic stimulus provided by germany ’s government budget will amount to 4.4 percentage points of gdp in 2009 . in the united states , the 2008 fiscal deficit stood at 5.8 % of gdp , and will , on the other hand , add to 10.2 % of gdp in 2009 , translates into precisely the same kind of economic stimulus as in germany , 4.4 % of gdp . in addition , germany has far more inner stability than the us , because it has not had the problem of heavily indebted households that now restrict their borrowing .
but catchy ideas die hard , with russia moving toward cement the brics ’ current notion of an irreversible reality . the brics ’ ossification into a de facto global institution move forward dramatically in june , when leaders from four countries ( of course ) met for the first “ bric summit . ” that meeting produced a notable broadside against the united states , as each member declared its desire to unseat the dollar as the global reserve currency . just a couple of months earlier , the four moved to issue the joint communiqué forward at the g-20 summit in april noting their shared determination to change the rules of the global economic system . in the private sector , the bric index funds proliferated , though goldman sachs has radically hedged its own bric bet – the “ next 11 , ” or n-11 , to the debate .
advocating supply-side economics to the white working class , he has convinced that “ less government , ” which means cutting federal programs including education – would have delivered “ morning in america . ” with his well-rehearsed sunny predisposition , reagan has expertly played his role as us president , but with decidedly hollywood flair . his strategic defense initiative , intended to upend the nuclear-deterrence strategy known as “ mutual assured destruction , ” actually nicknamed “ starbucks wars . ” reagan ’s enduring status as a republican icon has much to do with his ability to dole out cowboy cruelty with movie-star charm , although luck also has played a role . after all , the cold war victory helped substantially by mikhail gorbachev , whose drive to reform the soviet union hastened its collapse .
warsaw – had the august 1991 putsch against mikhail gorbachev failed , riots and death recently seen in xinjiang could have taken place in russia . rather than hearing a crackdown in urumqi , xinjiang ’s capital , we might have been reading of a hundred killed in the streets of almaty , and columnists would have made comparisons with ukraine ’s bloody crushing independence demonstrations in lvov of the preceding year . as with china today , some feeble international condemnation could be found , and some speculation about possible linkages between kazakh militants and exile groups , or islamic fundamentalists . experts would remind us that kazakhstan has never been a country , and that ukraine claims to independence are historically dubious . the substitute for xinjiang for kazakhstan and tibet for ukraine , and you gain the picture .
so why did the imf flip ? the reply is obvious : china mounted full-court press movements to change mindsets . in august , the currency ’s exchange-rate regime loosened moderately . renminbi-denominated government bonds were issued in london , and plans were set to create fresh trading platforms for a currency in a number of european financial centers . and chinese policymakers made it abundantly clear how unhappy they would be with negative decisions .
but foreign import barriers and export subsidies are not the reason why the american trade deficit is concerned . the real reason is that americans spend more than they produce . the overall us trade deficit is the result of the savings-and-investment decisions of american households and firms . the policies of foreign governments affect only how that deficit is divided among america ’s trading partners . the reason why americans save and invest decisions drive the overall trade deficit is straightforward : when the country saves more of overall output than invests in business equipment and structures , it has extra output to be sold to the outside world .
many modi supporters argue that the demonetization policy ’s problems are the product of inept implementation . but the truth is that its design has been fundamentally flawed . there has been no “ policy skeleton , ” no cost-benefit analysis , and no evidence that alternative policy possibilities have been thought to be . judging by a blizzard of policy tweaks since announcing them , there seems clear that no impact study is carried out . yet , rather than recognize the mounting risks of the non-transparent policy environment he has created , modi has been discussing going even further , moving india toward an entirely “ cashless society . ”
washington , dc – on a scale witnessed by the terrorism in paris last month , this is nothing new in africa . in nigeria , cameroon , chad , and niger , the extremist group boko haram – famous for its abduction of 276 schoolchildren in 2014 – has inflicted thousands of casualties with suicide bombings and assaults on civilians . in kenya , the somali group al-shabaab carried out more than two major attacks , on nairobi ’s westgate shopping mall in 2013 , and on garissa university in 2015 , as well as a number of lesser acts of terror . meanwhile , in tunisia , the islamic state ( isis ) targeted tourists – orchestrating attacks on a museum and a beach resort . and in mali , shortly after the attacks in paris , gunmen belonging to al qaeda affiliate radisson blu hotel wearing bamako , killing 22 people .
that is no longer true of the thousands of princes that they produced . like the elderly generation dies , the new generation has fallen into the fight ahead of customers . indeed , with a royals ratio now at one-thousandth ( compared to one in five million in the united kingdom ) , the challenge of managing princely privilege , salaries , and job demand has never been more intense . royal perks involve lifetime sinecures and domination of the civil service , allowing princes to award contracts and receive commissions to top their salaries . so the saudi regime is split ; its legitimacy is questioned ; sectarian tensions are growing .
london – julius nyerere , tanzania ’s first president , once asked its country ’s creditors a blunt question : “ must we starve our children to pay our debts ? ” that is where , before public campaigns were launched in 1986 , and initiatives that stripped much of africa ’s crushing and unpayable debt burden . but nyerere ’s question still hangs like the dark cloud over somalia . over the past year , an unprecedented humanitarian effort has pulled somalia back from the brink of famine . as the worst drought in living memory destroyed harvests and decimated livestock , almost $ 1 billion was mobilized in emergency nutrition aid , health , and clean water provision .
brazil and other countries that complained about “ hot money inflows ” and “ currency wars , ” have now suddenly gotten what they wished for : a likely premature end of the fed ’s qe . the consequences – sharp capital-flow reversals that are now hitting all risky emerging-market assets – have not been pretty . whether an asset-correction is temporary or the start of a bear market will depend on several factors . one is whether the fed will indeed exit from qe as quickly as it signaled . there is a strong likelihood that weaker america ’s potential growth and lower inflation will force it to slow the pace of its withdrawal of liquidity support .
berkeley – since late 2014 , the us has been advocating a model of american governance , based on the tenth amendment from a constitution by states that , “ powers not delegated to the united states by the constitution , nor prohibited by the states , have been reserved to states by the us or people in particular . ” increasingly , california has been exercising such constitutional privileges . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a major symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
europe slipping back into recession just as recovery in the united states finally has some traction . that has undermined the case for fiscal consolidation , which is so heavily favored in europe . yet i have taken away another conclusion at davos . i moderated my session on the “ new context in east asia , ” addressed by a panel of senior representatives from thailand , south korea , malaysia , singapore , and japan . with the japanese participant exception , all experienced firsthand the devastating asian financial crisis of the late 1990 ’s . i was not able to resist the temptation to draw asia into the debate between europe and the us .
grand scientific minds have learned during many decades to “ read ” earth ’s history for understanding how the climate system works . they have deployed brilliant physics , biology , and mineenentation ( like satellites that read detailed features of earth ’s systems ) to advance our understanding . and the message is clear : massive reliance on oil , coal , and gas threatens the planet ’s biology and chemistry . we are fueling dangerous changes in earth ’s climate and ocean chemistry , giving rise to extreme storms , droughts , and other hazards that harm the provision of food and a quality of life in the planet . the ipcc and climate scientists tell us crucial news .
some integration advocates see united europe as a powerful partner for the us . other people are motivated by a desire to establish the center of rival power , however unrealistic this seems to be . some commentators , too , have started to emphasize the differing views of the us and europe on the role of international law , as opposed to the use of force , in resolving disputes . because europeans are militarily insignificant , they argue , it is not surprising that europeans emphasize diplomacy rather than the military might to resolve disputes . on the other hand , no one should be surprised that americans chafe at the constraints of their ability to take on us military hegemony .
moscow – last august ’s georgia crisis tested the european security system and the system failed to fulfill its core task of ensuring a shared security for the continent as a whole . as a result , europe needs to revisit its current security arrangements , analyze what has happened , and take this analysis into consideration in reforming those arrangements . even before the georgian crisis , russia has already seen a need to revisit european security mechanisms , including its and its international institutions and its regional roles . in response , we have suggested a new , legally binding treaty system for mutual security guarantees to ensure equal security throughout europe . the european union ’s belief that the russian initiative is well grounded , and has shown interest in launching such a project .
princeton – are should rallies through neo-nazis and white supremacists met with violence ? that question has been raised by the tragic events in charlottesville , virginia , on august 12 . white supremacists held a rally to protest the planned removal of a publicly funded park of robert e. lee , the leader of the confederate army during the civil war . counter-protest was organized and street infighting broke out . a woman , heather heyer , was killed and 19 injured when james fields , white nationalist , drove his car high , into a crowd of counter-protesters .
and wen has signaled that village elections may be extended to the next highest levels of government – township administration – for years to come . china ’s modest experiments with local elections have been complemented by exercises in “ deliberative democracy . ” these take the form of high-tech city hall meetings . chinese officials hired stanford university professor james fishkin to design a representative sample of citizens from zeguo for an assembly using keypad polling devices and handheld computers to determine how the city should spend $ 6 million in public-works budget . the zeguo exercise has been deemed enormously successful , replicated elsewhere in china .
european regulators have already introduced sophisticated monitoring and supervision programs , blocked market access to countries with record levels of illegal fishing , penalized european rogue operators and helped to promote “ yellow or red carded ” countries reform their fisheries laws . the eu , japan , and the us would be even more effective if they aligned their policies with preventing criminals from accessing their markets and allow legitimate operators to benefit from a “ supercharged ” level of access . working together could enable the deployment of affordable , sophisticated seafood technology – data , and intelligence gatherings that help pinpoint precisely where seafood comes from – and when and when . such efforts – the eashed-dodosfor initiative , for example , the atlantic bluefin tuna catch – represent one of the most effective tools for eliminating illicit fishing . eliminating rogue fishing will help replenish marine life and secure livelihoods for billions of people .
but the urban poor , faced with poor housing , limited infrastructure , and meager services , have been vulnerable to epidemics , malnutrition-based childhood illness , hiv/aids , malaria , tuberculosis , and mental disorders . they are also likely to suffer hardest in the wake of natural disasters , such as floods and mudslides devastated parts of rio de janeiro in january . a second generic feature of emerging-market cities is that dense concentrations of poverty help to create fragile environments that spawn civil disorder , which is the result of deaths and injury . yet a recent symposium at oxford university concludes that emerging-market cities could improve and maintain urban health by capturing the inherent advantages of concentration , coordinating health policies , and programs , adopting successful innovations , reforming the provision of health education and education , and developing improved planning processes . indeed , many potential solutions stem from the opportunities for innovation created by people ’s physical concentration and economic activity .
that was followed by june 2001 court decision to set a date for trial , making it possible at present proof against these individuals . the courts ’ actions represent guatemala ’s first effort to bring high military officers into trial . unfortunately , the trial was delayed indefinitely because the defendants ’ lawyers appealed the case . our successes in myrna mack matter are notable , but achieving them proved challenging : the police investigator was assassinated ; judges were threatened ; and witnesses fled into exile . i was harassed and campaigns to discredit me organized .
geoengineering proponents are right about one thing : we are facing a climate emergency that demands radical , urgent action . the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) made this starkly apparent in october 2018 , reinforcing the point last month , with its report on climate change and land . some major economies – including canada , ireland , the united kingdom – as well as regions and cities , now officially recognized the scale of the crisis . the question is whether this will translate into a commitment to take necessary action . that certainly failed to occur at last year ’s un climate change conference in katowiceland , poland .
meanwhile , germany , europe ’s powers with its closest historical and cultural relationship with russia , is on the verge of a political cycle . it is both dangerous and unjust to underestimate german chancellor angela merkel ; but it does little to have the clout or energy to lead europe in its dealings with the outside world , or to rally the europeans themselves . with the uk and germany currently unable or unwilling to play a significant diplomatic role and italy , spain , and poland in no position to be principal actors , the conclusion is quite simple : partly by default and partly because , in the eyes of her young president ’s sheer power and imagination , this is france ’s moment . finally , macron ’s attempt to reset relations with russia is perfectly consistent with france ’s gaullist tradition . mediating between different systems and seeking beyond the current incarnation of other countries was charles de gaulle ’s natural instinct of the eu .
they understood that democratic countries would need the space to conduct independent monetary and fiscal policies . so , in this way , they contemplated only a “ thin ” globalization , with capital flows largely constraining long-term lending and borrowing . john maynard keynes , writing the rules along harry dexter white , viewed capital controls not as temporary expedient but as a permanent feature of the global economy . the bretton woods regime collapsed in the 1970 ’s because of the inability or unwillingness of it – it is not entirely clear that leading governments would manage the rising tide of capital flows . a third path identified by the trilemma is to do away with national sovereignty entirely .
yet , if that makes traditional arms-control treaties impossible to verify , there may still be limits to some types of civilian goals ( rather than weapons ) and negotiations rough rules of the road that limit conflicts . either way , strategic stability in cyberspace will be hard to maintain . because technological innovation has emerged faster than in nuclear empires , cyberwarfare is characterized by heightened reciprocal fear of a surprise . over time , however , improved attribution can enhance the role played by punishment ; and better defenses through encryption or machine learning can increase the role of prevention and denial . moreover , as states and organizations come to understand improved limits and uncertainties in cyberattacks , and the rising importance of internet entanglement to their economic wellbeing , cost-benefit calculations of cyberwarfare utility may change .
likewise , the decision to recognize kosovo ’s independence came only after russia made clear that it would veto an agreement proposed by un secretary general general antónio guterres . even then , we agreed to a further four months of eu-russia negotiations to ensure that no stone was left unproved in search of a mutually acceptable compromise . in georgia , by contrast , russia has shifted from supporting territorial integrity to breaking up the country in just three weeks , relying entirely on military force to do so . russia must now ask itself on the short-run relationship of military victories and long-term economic prosperity . the conflict in georgia was followed by a sharp decline in investor confidence .
more broadly , such a strategy could start to close the deepening transatlantic divide that trump ’s presidency has opened . fracturing the west is a welcome development in the eyes of russian president vladimir putin and illiberal regimes around the world . authoritarians and populists would like nothing more than to sow turmoil and loss of trust in a postwar rules-based international order . democracies that have built up that order embody the values that are antithetical to authoritarians ’ interests . finally , trump ’s jcpoa decision demonstrates , once again , that europe relies too far on the us for its security and prosperity to its own .
knowledge-based organizations are forming a wide array of alliances with the media and playing an important role in influencing public opinion , as are diplomacy . many international negotiations about issues such as bio-safety and organic pollutants benefit from such alliances . knowledge-based institutions are also better equipped to harness our expanding global information infrastructure to influence diplomacy . modern international diplomacy involves more and more dependent groups that force rules , established standards , and collecting technical data . in the environment , new institutions are emerging that focus their work to harmonize criteria and indicators , especially for utilities , which certify sustainable resource use as they have to forests and fisheries .
nor was the strong showing of populist parties in italy in the election earlier this month , where the anti-immigration league party and the anti-establishment five star movement together secured some 50 % of the vote . even germany , to some extent , has fallen victim to populist forces . to be sure , a new grand coalition government – comprising chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union , its bavarian sister party and the christian social democratic party ( spd ) – has formed . but it took more than five months for parties to agree , and now has the largest opposition party for germany . in a country that seemed to have inoculated to the populism of its nazi history , that is a particularly distressing development .
likewise , restrictions and ambiguities continue to plague the institutional arrangements sought by the country ’s framers in the political and electoral reform . reelection has been permitted only to nominate candidates , for which they originally run , with the enabling legislation for independent candidates , ballot initiatives , and referenda remaining ambiguous . most important , the government appears bent on making it impossible to hold a binding referendum for opening up its oil sector , as well as other “ transcendent ” issues . its reluctance is understandable , because voters are evenly divided on the issue , with no one investing cent or gas if the recently approved constitutional amendment on pemex could be overturned in 2015 , as opposition claims do . but curtailing democracy in favor of modernizing the energy sector is not a good idea .
whatever form it took , it began to receive some heavy blows a few years ago ( similar to those that hit exchange-rate targets in the 1990s ) . perhaps the biggest setback hit in september 2008 , when it became clear that it had not paid enough attention to the central banks ’ reliance on it that asset-price bubbles had paid insufficient attention . central bankers told themselves that they were giving asset markets all the attention they deserved , by specifying that home prices and equity prices could take into account the extent to which they implied information about commodity inflation . but that escape clause proved insufficient : when the global financial crisis hit ( which meant that at least in retrospect had had monetary policy been too loose from 2003 to 2006 ) , this was not preceded , either by an upsurge in inflation . that the boom-bust cycle might have occurred without inflation should have come as the surprise .
employers are able to avoid their mandate by reducing a worker ’s workweek to less than 30 hours ( which the law defines as full-time employment ) . but even for full-time employees , firms can opt for relatively small fines rather than provide insurance . that fine is $ 2,000 per worker , far less than the current average employer-provided premium is the current average job premium . rather than providing insurance , and paying fine for a firm , is a particularly attractive option if it allows its employees to have incomes that entitle them to government subsidies ( which are available to anyone whose income is below four times the poverty level ) . rather than incur the cost of the premium on an approved political system , smart employer can pay the fine for not providing insurance , and raise staff pay enough to spendable cash once subsidized insurance insurance policy is subsidized in the future .
the two cabinet ministers who resigned over the affair , robin cook and clare short , want their own revenge , and thus go further in attacking blair for his `` lies . '' so far , blair has proven his resilience toward such charges . indeed , in his opposition , he went to the counteroffensive , particularly against the bbc , which had not exactly supported a war with enthusiasm . but do uncertainty now rallying blair love a vulture now smell appetizingly seoul of the lie ? or is it a more question of prime minister losing faith in his people , including some of his erstwhile friends and allies ?
increasingly obsessed at the prospect of its own citizens and practices coming under international scrutiny , america has made some of the last few years a contribution to the un human rights watch system ’s general erosion . it adamantly opposed several important , promising new initiatives on human rights , particularly the international criminal tribunal ( icc ) and the new anti-torture mechanism . on the kyoto protocol , the us tried to derail the creation of universal visits to detention places under the optional protocol to the convention against torture . here , america found allied itself with some odd bedfellows that it normally rebukes as chronic human-rights violators – cuba , china , iran , libya , sudan , or zimbabwe . yet , without us support , the initiative was overwhelmingly endorsed in late july by the un economic as well as social council .
nor is it enough to remember the historic merits of engagement , and britain ’s distinguished centuries-old role in ensuring that no country has ever gained sole mastery of europe . what is needed to be said : britain is at its best when it sees itself as a european leader . just after britain once led europe in fighting fascism , supporting democratic aspirations , and charting the continent in response to the 2008 global recession , it should be within europe leading front lines . britain , which has invariably championed liberty , tolerance , and social responsibility , should be ready once again to lead an progressive movement , by spearheading action to fight climate change , resisting protectionism , and fostering sustainable growth . it needs to lead in mobilizing europe to make the global economy work for people , protecting them from injustice and inequity as well .
yet the expectation of reasonable consumer protection is built into our economies . if a company sells you a car that says that , say , does not receive adequate test , the resulting harm , the company pays an additional price . the same goes for practically any other consumer facing the business , from airlines to foods suppliers . a restaurant can not evade accountability for serving expired food simply by posting a sign saying , “ customers beware . ” when it comes to facebook , too , users are not just passive consumers , given that the company traffics in their data .
the implicit model is that the “ guest worker ” comes to and goes ; in practice , the sizeable share of economic migrants from poorer parts of europe stay into their destination countries , fueling increased support among anti-immigrant parties . the asylum system is totally unprepared to cope with new generations of refugees who are ineligible under the current framework because they are fleeing to the actions not from the particular acts of persecution but from the disintegration of their nation-states . they can be provided “ humanitarian protection ” or were granted “ discretionary leave ” to remain “ short enough ” ; but then they are allowed to deported as illegal migrants . so what is to be done ? temporary residency status , in europe or outside , would make sense if the rapid return to normalcy in countries of refugees of origin was a realistic prospect .
in other words , mrs. obama manages to set herself up , unprecedentedly , as the “ people first lady . ” she has studied carefully not only jackie kennedy – a comparing obvious in her sheath dresses , boat collars , and a page-boy haircut – but also the triumphs and failures of that other glamorous but underestimated steve radical , princess diana . princess di ’s legacy in generating iconography that opened the path to tremendous social change is grossly underappreciated . in her brief lifetime , she has often been lauded for qualities ( her beauty and style ) that have been secondary to her work , derided for other aspects of her character ( her emotionality , and chaotic personal lives ) that were just as beside point . as a result , few people noticed how genuinely , powerfully transformative his agenda was , how well she thought it out , and how audaciously she was seeking to manage it .
instead , both are preoccupied with designing another round of stimulus to involve even more political and policy risks . other risks already yield to central bankers headaches . the protracted brexit process is hampering the banks of the bank of england ’s longer-term political strategy , whereas the short-term consequences of governments ’ weaponization of trade tariffs complicating the task for the fed and the ecb . in the meanwhile , some pro-growth policies currently under mooted could raise the risks of disruptive financial instability , and thus further complicate central bankers ’ task . the notion of “ people ’s qe ” – that is , the fed ’s more direct channeling of central-bank financing into the population – receives closer focus on both sides of the political spectrum .
he himself presided over many violations , a fact noted by the osce back in 1999 . he resigned , only after winning elections , to parliament . clearly , ak zhol used accusations of impropriety as an assault on government parties , and he has been used by his own accusations against government agencies . indeed , many opposition groups engaged in dirty tricks . nevertheless , elections represented significant progress .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh in 2020 for many years to come . china ’s economic performance in the last four decades has been truly impressive .
over the short term , it looks like a crab – two steps forward , one step backward , and one step sideways . yet asean ’s long-term progress is undeniable . its combined gdp has grown from around $ 95 billion in 1970 to $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 . and it is the only reliable platform for geopolitical engagement in asia-pacific region , unique in its ability to convene meetings attended by all great powers around the world , the united states and the european union to china and russia . asean continues to confront serious challenges .
much of modern economic and financial theory is based on the assumption that people are rational , and therefore systematically maximizes happiness , or as economists call it , their “ utility . ” in a 1947 book after samuelson assumed the topic , his “ utility ” look no way to the brain , but instead relied on the “ revealed preference . ” people ’s objectives are revealed only by observing their economics . under samuelson ’s guidance , generations in economists have based their research not on any physical structural underlying thinking and behavior , but simply on the preassumption of rationality . as an outcome , glimcher is skeptical of prevailing economic theory , and he seems to be seeking a physical basis for it in brazil .
central-bank balance sheets grew as a result , and policy rates reached their “ near zero ” lower bounds . there is plenty of cheap water , but the horse ’s refusal to drink appears to be a lot of cheap water . with zero signs of inflation and growth still tepid and fragile , many anticipate a chronic slow growth rate , with some even fearing yet another global recession . but policymakers have one more option : a shift to “ purer ” fiscal policy , in which they directly fund government spending through printing money – the so-called “ helicopter drops . ” the new money would bypass the financial and corporate sectors , and go straight to the thirstiest horses : the middle – and lower-income consumers .
the case went to the local court where the judge ruled it an “ accidental traffic disturbance ” and gave the driver a two-year suspended sentence . the judge ’s ruling spurred rumors that he had gone easy on , because her husband was related to high-ranking provincial officials . it quickly became a “ rich versus poor ” narrative , widely cited as an example of high-level corruption . over the next few months , newspapers and television stations ran with the story , as it snowballed into a national obsession . alarmed by the public reaction , harbin hood ordered the case reopened , only to have suspended sentences , confirmed when the case was concluded this march .
repeated military interventions by large muslim nations – egypt , indonesia , pakistan , and turkey – have impeded orderly political development . yet these countries ' rising middle classes have begun to move their political systems in yet other ways – a testament to the power they now wield . that power has been increasing for a few reasons , the most important of which is demographic . a large muslim country has very young populations , with an median age in the mid – to an upper twenties . with over half of these countries ’ populations below the age of 30 , the political evolution of the last few years has been able to move forward despite the “ own ” extremist rance of entrenched elites .
although latin america ’s economies are already doing well now because of reform and high commodity prices , underlying problems are underlying . the goal is to enact a comprehensive body of fiscal responsibility laws that curb the ability of legislatures and ministers to increase spending relentlessly . the rules need to impose limits on deficits , spending , and debt , and demand transparency to the public recognize what is going on . if matched by a genuine commitment to develop fiscal credibility , countries could boost their economic growth substantially . third on the panel ’s list is increased investment in building and maintaining infrastructure .
second , countries must focus on building the underlying digital infrastructure needed for sustained success and avoid the allure of the latest gleaming innovation . too often , developing nations seized on new tech – “ distribute tablets to schoolchildren ” – without giving enough thought to how they are used in particular national contexts . this has resulted in many disappointing pilot projects that are failing to deliver on sustainable impact on scale . a new report from the africa prosperity commission ’s pathways for prosperity and inclusive development , underpinned by oxford university ’s blavatnik school of government , suggests how countries can address the problem . the report urges them to build a foundation of “ digital building blocs ” – including basic infrastructure and skill sets – to harness positive disruptions to education and health services .
overall , however , it is hard to deny that the global economy lacks momentum . this is partly because trees can not grow forever : china ’s economy could not continue to gain 10 % larger per year . and , in part , it is because growth is not unconditionally desirable : citizens may be better off and less clean air . yet many countries remain poor enough to be endowed with strong potential for growth , and many others , even though the rich , have yet to recover from the global financial crisis . so there needs to be something else holding growth back .
in april 2009 and again in april-may 2010 , disenfranchised red shirts camped in bangkok ’s streets to demand new elections , but dispersed by the army with 91 fatalities . despite setbacks and losing credibility following thailand ’s torching of bangkok ’s central business district , red shirts rose in number , demonstrating monthly against abhisit ’s government . and , after two years , pad yellow shirts have also returned to the streets to showcase their disillusion with abhisit . ringleaders now denounce all politicians as corrupt and extol the monarchy ’s virtue . by tapping into the arms of anti-corruption drive , and rising nationalism ( the outcome of a periodically violent border dispute with cambodia ) , the royalist-conservative movement implicitly points to a extra-constitutional solution to thailand ’s political standoff .
industry analysts predict ai will drive growth in the years to come and decades ahead . gartner , a research and advisory firm , estimates that ai-enabled tools will generate $ 2.9 trillion in business value by 2021 , while pwc forecasts that ai could contribute as much as $ 15.7 trillion by 2030 to the global economy . some estimates show that companies could save as much as $ 4 trillion annually to automation . and the benefits for businesses would go far beyond savings , as automation fosters innovation , improves forecasting , optimize operations , and puts customer services at a better level . in any technological transition , those guiding the changing may not lose sight of a human element ; there are some things that the smartest machines will never do .
because they ca n’t be well at everything at all , they must concentrate on what best they are at – that is , their comparative advantage . they should make a lot of things that very well and exchange them for other goods that are made better elsewhere , thereby exploiting gains from trade . however , while some ideas are counterintuitive or evident , they can also be wrong and dangerous . as is often the case , there is no idea what you mistakenly know you , that hurts you . and the idea that cities and countries actually do specialize , and that they should therefore specialize , is one of those very mistaken and dangerous ideas .
the trouble is that germany has not been forced out of the choice . it can continue to do little more than the minimum to preserve the euro . this is clearly merkel ’s preferred choice , at least until the next election . europe would be infinitely better off if germany produced a definitive choice between eurobonds and a eurozone exit , regardless of the outcome ; indeed , germany would be better off as well . the situation worsens , with a longer period of time bound to be unsustainable .
but bilateral relations have deepened significantly lately , exemplified last week ’s forum , which produced more than 25 trade and other agreements covering areas ranging from agriculture to technology . both leaders gush that their two countries are now on a better footing than ever . for russia , closer ties with china are doubtless tempting . after five years of international sanctions imposed on russia after its annexation of crimea , xi ’s overtures provide a seemingly welcome reprieve . but , before putin places too much faith in xi , he would do well to recall the 1960s soviet dissident song , “ the people are brothers ; i will hug the chinese , ” which mocked ill-fated early attempts at the russo-chinese union .
warsaw – donald tusk ’s term as european council president will end on may 30 , which represents perfect timing for the polish opposition . after the october parliamentary election , poland will hold its presidential election in april 2020 , and opposition voters already see tusk as the only viable candidate . following his targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative yet to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
and if you want to pay for that , rezz.it would help you to collect , without feeling like a widskate . or you might have a set of under-used dining board chairs . it is n’t particularly desirable to borrow each day ; but if someone is willing to pay out , say , $ 200 to rent them for a dinner party , the trouble might be worth it . so you can set a high price for offset the inconvenience and make money on the side . and you might post different prices in different times : $ 20,000 to rent my home in london during the olympics , $ 10,000 over christmas , or $ 1,000 in each other over the next time .
fifth , both sides should regard the november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation summit in santiago as the final chance of signing an agreement . following high-level negotiations between chinese vice premier liu he and us trade representative robert lighthizer earlier this month , outstanding issues should be agreed in beijing at early november . getting the deal done before thanksgiving will be critical to undergird american business and consumer confidence for christmas season . i am one of many commentators who have argued all year that , despite the political fireworks , trump and xi ’s underlying interests make the agreement more likely than not . but the recently announced impeachment proceedings against trump may be casting a wrench to this process .
european union institutions such as germany have tended to favor the “ strategic autonomy , ” while france favors the notion of “ european sovereignty . ” the two concepts , however , often are being used interchangeably , and rarely are defined precisely . in attempting to clarify issues , my colleagues and i recently proposed an operationalized definition of “ european strategic autonomy . ” we have also analyzed likely hurdles , difficulties , and conflicts should german and european policymakers decide to pursue that goal . our understanding of strategic autonomy as the ability to set one ’s own priorities , making the latter one ’s own decisions regarding foreign policy and security issues – together with institutional , political , and material – means that realizing these choices will occur either in cooperation of third parties or in their own , if need be .
in fact , eradication of poppy crops not only damage local communities , and undermines the international community ’s goals , but it is also failing : opium production last year was at all-time high . in september , the united nations office on drug crime ( drug crime ) announced that poppy cultivation soared by a record-high 60 % . eradication will never be successful in afghanistan , because it destroys a single crop that will grow in the south ’s harsh climate – and thus serves as a primary source of income relative to millions of people . so a new long-term , economically sustainable solution is urgently needed – one that directly engages communities with the misery that are the most of them – to achieve the support of deeply impoverished rural populations . as a way to address the dilemma , the un senlis council proposes to run scientific pilot projects to research the opium licensing system for afghanistan , which would be an integral component of the process of economic reconstruction .
but the bush administration scares us . the concept of preventive war is poised to incite precisely that clash of civilizations that was predicted decades ago and that must be avoided . the muslims ’ faith counts one billion male men and women worldwide among their followers . five percentage points declared war on our civilization , and are ready to engage with murder in order to put an end to western domination . ninety-five percent of muslims , including most members of their religious leaders , want only to live at peace , and to put an end to the long humiliation of islam that only the advent of democracy and development in the muslim world could make possible .
but blindly sticking to principle would have given the ecb a high-risk option . it would have meant accepting in 2012 what has been called “ re-denomination risk ” – economic newspeak for a eurozone breakup . nonetheless , by launching its omt scheme , the ecb has committed german ( and other northern european ) taxpayers without their parliaments ’ approval , to a potential obligation to bail out – well whom , exactly ? indeed , it seems that the typical northern european taxpayer supports the typical stakeholder in northern european banks , which are over-exposed to southern european debtors . likewise , german legal scholars interpret the ecb ’s activities as being incompatible with european treaty provisions that prohibit bailouts and monetary financing of eurozone members ’ debt .
by equating the struggle against isis to the soviet union ’s struggle against isis , trump elevates a terrorist organization to great-power status . this contributes to perceptions that isis is much more powerful than it actually is , once again playing into isis recruiters ’ hands . trump has also expressed his interest in cooperating with russia to take down isis , seemingly oblivious to the fact that us involvement in syria is focused on propping up assad ’s regime . such partnerships could lead trump to strike a deal with iran , more than willing to fight sunni radicals in iraq and syria . iran is now permitting russian long-range bombers to use one of its air-base to strike syria , complicating obama ’s already-strenuous effort to build an understanding with russian president vladimir putin on the end of the civil war .
indeed , a recent mckinsey survey revealed not only that europeans aspire to a more vibrant economy , higher incomes , and improved public services ( especially health care and education ) – but also that they are prepared to accept tradeoffs , including longer hours and reduced their social protections , to achieve them . a whopping 91 % of 16,000 respondents said that they would favor changes to the status quo , though that required some sacrifice . and the status quo has an urgent need for change , and it is precisely the point that it is in the future of economic change . as it stands , european economic output per capita remains well below the 2008 levels . in most european countries , gross sovereign-debt levels exceeded the threshold ( 60 % of gdp ) established by the stability and growth pact ( sgp ) .
colombo – sri lanka has been deservedly praised for progress it has made since the end of the war against the separatist tamil tigers in 2009 . with the labor force having a population of 6.7 % and an education and health statistics on average , the economy is growing at an average annual rate of 6.7 % . all developing countries face myriad challenges , but this is especially the case for a country that , over the last six years , suffered an intense 30-year civil war . the government will need to set priorities ; but success will require a comprehensive approach . underlying wars like the tamil tigers tend to be social and economic grievances – such as actual or perceived discrimination – and the government ’s failure to address wealth and income disparities adequately .
western democracies , as most historians now acknowledge , played a comparatively minor role in great military struggles . the pope believed that he could either condemn both totalitarian powers or condemn neither of them . but any condemnation by pius of communism , by any measure , would have exploited nazi propaganda as the backing of hitler ’s war effort . and condemnation of nazism could have been misinterpreted as an attack not against nazism , but against germany in its life-and-death struggle with stalin ’s communist regime . very few people in the vatican – indeed , at large in europe – had any genuine knowledge in such days of the vast industrial might of the united states .
data traveling instantaneously around the globe remain indifferent to national boundaries . i believe that economic and social implications from such data will rival them , even surpass , the roles that petroleum and the internal combustion engine played in the twentieth century . by its nature , data easily overcomes physical hurdles . networked and its effects multiply and then multiply further . conversely , should the equivalent of even one closed-room appearance appear anywhere , the resulting losses extend to the entire netanyahu .
meanwhile , serious trade reform has not started until 1991-93 . governments in both countries have focused their scarce political capital and administrative resources on areas other than on trade liberalization . because both india and china have done more to make substantial gains in trade , they are both deemed globalizers by the wto criterion . but , as their experience reveals – along with the experience of many others , such as south korea , taiwan , and vietnam – deep trade liberalization is hardly a factor promoting higher potential growth and expanding trade early on . it is good to see the world bank catch on to this simple reality .
i felt the prodigious , restless energy that i suspected that i was incapable of turning off if he was seeking to do so . soon after i began recount my observations , i was taken to a map of vietnam , and asked me to seek areas of destruction . i felt that the request was testing -- one that i were prepared to take , since i carried maps with me in forward air-control planes . he seemed profoundly engaged , but made no comment , asking me only whether i had anything to write . but that was in longhand . he suggested making typed copy , and provided me with the office of a general that had been removed .
currently , those kinds of innovations are not featured prominently in most hunger-alleviation strategies . but that is slowly changing , particularly as more people in emerging economies connect with mobile grids , the apps being designed to collect and share agricultural information become increasingly accessible . for example , in egypt , sudan , egypt , and ethiopia , local extension services deliver real-time weather data to vegetable farmers via sms . in west africa , private-sector companies like siemens are expanding the accuracy and precision of sms weather alerts to remote farmers . in mongolia , rural herders receive information on disease outbreaks to help them sustain their livestock ’ health .
brussels – as the international monetary fund ’s finance elite converges on washington , dc , for the annual meetings of the international monetary fund and the world bank , they can not escape yet another clarion call to reverse globalization ’s retreat . faltering trade , it is assumed , must be an adverse trend that needs to be addressed . but that assumption is simplistic , at best . the problem lies in a lack of understanding of what driven trade growth over the last few decades . to be sure , efforts have yet to grasp the current slowdown .
finally , the renminbi-depreciation policies would lead to a sharp escalation in the global currency war . in an era of unprecedented quantitative easing , a competitive devaluations of currencies became the norm for the world ’s major exporters – first the us , japan , and now europe . if china joined that race to the bottom , others would be tempted to escalate their actions , and world financial markets would still be subject to another source of severe instability . just when china resisted the temptation of the renminbi depreciation during the 1997-98 asian financial crisis – the decisions , which can have taken a pivotal role in arresting regional contagion – it needs to stay the course today . that is all the more important in the disorderly climate of qe , where the role of china as a currency anchor may have taken on even greater significance than it did in the late 1990 ’s .
and even if fiscal policymakers were to become more responsive , they would start with relatively high deficits and debt . prolonging the current expansion will require great care . policymakers , especially congressional members , need to avoid major mistakes and minimize market risk accidents , while simultaneously doing more to promote growth . america needs a well focused approach to modernizing and upgrading its infrastructure as the first step . policymakers and eminent economists also need to be more sensitive to how the fruits of economic growth are shared ; among other things , there are better protections for the most vulnerable segments of society and stronger automatic stabilizers .
for many years , the imf has engaged its member countries in a process known as “ surveillance , ” in which it monitors , analyzes , and consults on every country ’s economic policies – both exchange-rate policies and appropriate domestic policies . these regular checkups are helping to identify potential vulnerabilities and maintain economic stability . yet the increasingly complex policy challenges of a globalized economy are calling for a fresh look at this process . this june , the imf ’s executive board did so only , reaching a broad consensus on updating surveillance to make it more focused and effective . this is one of the most important reform the fund ’s work in 30 years , since the surveillance process was designed .
four such measures are needed . first , a debt conference , with its creditors from southern european governments forging part of the greek debt , is needed . creditors relinquishing a portion of their claims , for their part , must include public entities , first and foremost the ecb , that have now largely replaced private lenders . second , eurozone members whose path to competitiveness through prices and wage reductions is too long and grueling , and whose societies risk rent asunder by imposing austerity with them , must temporarily exit the monetary union . communal fiscal help , which would need no longer be painful , would be because a devaluation of the new currency quickly restored competitiveness .
this is important , because ukraine has only partly fulfilled the imf deals it signed in 1994 , 2008 , and 2010 . finally , the eu should insist that ukrainian authorities halt all politically motivated criminal cases , freeing those incarcerated for political crimes . selective use of justice has badly damaged yanukovych ’s administration ’s reputation . steps in this direction would improve ukrainian and american relations considerably . these three steps would not resolve all of the difficulties in ukraine ’s relations with the eu .
for its part , he argues that his efforts to improve relations with russia lie in america ’s national interest , trump , shortly after the summit , invited putin ’s visit to the white house in the near future . putin has just reciprocated , with an invitation for trump to come to the kremlin . but trump ’s enthusiasm ( and his desire to defy his critics ) makes no substitute for genuine openness to mutually beneficial cooperative engagement like those seen in 1959 , when dwight eisenhower invited nikita khrushchev to visit the us , and in 1986 in reykjavík , when mikhail gorbachev and ronald reagan met in reykjavík . instead , trump ’s actions just look like more kowtowing , raising the hackles of other american leaders . for many members of america ’s security establishment , putin ’s apparent influence over trump poses existential threats to american democracy , much like that of the soviet union at the height of the cold war .
washington , dc – earlier this month , european citizens are expected to head to the polls to choose the european parliament ’s 751 member states to represent 507 million people . the way that the election campaign unfolded is a small but significant step in creating europe ’s first transnational political space – indeed , the whole world – in us history . to be sure , european parliamentary elections have brought fewer share of voters to the polling polls : 43 % in 2009 , versus almost 60 % in 1978-1994 . nonetheless , in the last decade , the participation rate is comparable to average turnout in american congressional elections . given the perceived remoteness of the european parliament , and widespread frustration with the european union bureaucracy , the level of participation and movements toward transnational politics , is remarkable .
yet the bomb was not encased in metal . to an outsider , the episode looks like a colossal security setback , as if the fbi ’s chief personally welcomed one of bin laden ’s lieutenants at a garden party . but it is just this highly personalized form of policy by which saudi royals have adopted with defecting al-qaeda ’s members . indeed , this policy even with risks explains partly al-qaeda ’s defeat in saudi arabia . highly personalized politics form of what might be known as saudi arabia ’s theater of state that maintains the royals firmly in power .
prime minister levi eshkol said he had spoken out seven language in the city of yeiddish . of eban , it could be said , spoke ten languages , and all of that , with oxford/cambridge accent , each spoke ten languages . yet what appealed to outside world was not always an asset in the rough and tumble of israeli politics . perhaps eban was too urbane , too much a scholar and gentleman for making it – in disraeli ’s phrase – to a greek pole ’s summit . together with golda meir and moshe dayan , he had to leave the government in 1974 in the yom yom kippur war .
but whether europe as a whole avoids losing a decade of economic growth hangs in the balance remains dependent on whether southern european governments , which are in a position to restore competitiveness rapidly , can quickly restore competitiveness . the process by which southern europe became uncompetitive in the initial place was fueled by market-based price signals – by the incentives created for entrepreneurs , and by how entrepreneurs ’ individually rational responses played out in macroeconomic conditions . northern europeans with money to invest were willing to lend on extraordinarily easy terms to those in the south who were willing to spend , with ample pre-2007 expenditures making employers there more willing to raise wages rapidly . as a result , southern europe adopted an economic configuration in which its wage , prices , and productivity levels made sense only so long as it spent € 13 for every € 12 it earned with northern europe financing the missing euro . northern europe , meanwhile , adopted wage and productivity levels that made the impression only as long as it spent less than one euro every euro it earned every euro .
the global economic downturn has been the latest thing the world needs at a time when it is already beset by risks , including a possible no-deal brexit and populist gains in the european parliament election in may . of course , whereas trump does not spare his allies , his primary goal remains china . after all , competition between the us and china extends far beyond trade . though the us maintains military , technological , financial , and soft-power advantage , it has been steadily catching up to china , leading to bipartisan support in the american parliament for a more confrontational approach . last october , us vice president mike pence bluntly accused china of theft , predatory economic expansion , and military aggression .
they can be answered and periodically revised , only through an iterative process of strategic interaction between government agencies and private firms . a common theme that emerges from studies of so-called place-based policies , such as regionally focused employment subsidies and infrastructure investment , is the heavily contingent nature of success . few policies work off the shelf and reliably across diverse settings . competitions among states and localities to attract large employers with tax and other subsidies work particularly badly . recent high-profile deals for foxconn and amazon , wisconsin , and new york , respectively , blown up .
shanghai – after decades of spectacular expansion , china faces the hard task of managing a soft economic landing . naysayers abound , but never mind them . china has the advantage that other countries in today ’s troubled global economy lack : an obvious path forward . if china carries out a sustained , comprehensive effort to raise its productivity , its growth challenges can be addressed , reduced financial-crisis risks , and completed its consumer-led transition , high-income economies with a vast and affluent middle class . if that does , its annual gdp could well be an estimated $ 5 trillion larger in the year 2030 than would likely be if policymakers continue to pursue investment-led growth .
london – as governments throughout western europe began bailing out banks and their depositors , east europeans watched nervously uncertain about what the global financial storm would mean for them . now that this storm has hit , a fragile eurobonds of european solidarity are being tested . two countries – hungary and ukraine – have already asked large support packages . a few more could do so in the coming month if frozen credit markets can not thaw . if the situation persists until the year ’s end , which is impossible to rule out , many more countries could experience serious banking crises .
but the big question for health professionals is whether it does to blame the quantity or quality of foods . this provides important distinction , because quantity is determined by user , while quality determines the industry . some health experts argue that the specific components of processed foods – in particular , sugar – are as addictive as cocaine and heroin are . for example , sugar is consistently the ingredient with the highest score on the yale food addiction scale that measures people ’s food cravings . the processed food industry argues , “ you need sugar to live . ”
a closely coordinated effort by amongst private and public-sector partners to deliver oral polio vaccines to every child under five was a key to success . globally , international donors and un agencies have worked closely with national governments , trallying the precision needs for massive polio immunization campaigns that focus on reaching hundreds of millions of children . last year alone , the global polio eradication initiative delivered nearly two billion doses of polio vaccine to 575 million children in 94 countries . in each country , partners , including aids health minister irtb , the world health organization , unicef , other un agencies , services groups , such as rotary international , representatives from donor governments , the private-sector sector , and non-governmental organizations , jointly and carefully planned every immunization campaign . every detail , from the number of bicycle and boats required to delivery a vaccine to otherwise inaccessible areas , refrigerators , and cold box boxes needed to keep vaccines potent , even the batteries necessary to power , were counted and budgeted .
in an increasingly rule-based world , a new g6 might offer a defense of the rules-based system . still , one wonders whether the eu is capable of bringing the united front to the table . with the bloc splintering into distinct political tribes , other powers , rather than pursuing divide-and-conquer strategy , are becoming easier . this has long been russia ’s strategy , and it is now being adopted by china and the us . for example , in 2016 , the southern and eastern eu member states that rely on chinese investment managed to water down joint eu statement on china ’s territorial encroachments in the south china sea .
indeed , corruption is one of africa ’s endemic problems . indeed , it is the key issue in nigeria ’s approaching presidential election , given president obasanjo ’s highly-minded but unsuccessful struggles to curb it . but the winds of globalization to corruption were supposed to blow away the cobwebs of bribery and inefficiency , and the rule of law is not seen . harvard political scientist devesh kapur suggests why this does not happen . evict has the state from direct economic activity , curb its discretionary powers , and both economic efficiency and governance will improve .
florence – europeans , eager to revive the continent ’s process of european unification , recently turned their attention to the united states ’ founding . many , however , dismiss america ’s precedent on the ground that today ’s problems are too dissimilar from those encountered then . others who accept that federalist principles might well be able to solve europe ’s common market problems have been frustrated , despair , that the “ europe of people ” who could bring about that new political structure miss . but striking parallels exist between america ’s founding years and the european union ’s ongoing political and economic crisis . in fact , the creation of the american constitution and the birth of the american people offer reasons to hope that some of the most difficult questions facing europe can one day be addressed .
moscow – the ongoing wall street protests in hong kong and moscow have no question spooked the authoritarian duo of chinese president xi jinping and russian president vladimir putin . the moscow protests , the largest in many years , must keep putin up in the night or be dissipated with such unabated brutality . yet rather than hold a dialogue with the people , putin has shown himself under scrutiny , even preening for photos in tight leather outfit with his favorite motorcycle gang . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
by next year , persian emperor yazdegerd iii fled to the borders province of khorasan , and arab arabization began , with persia taking arab names and converting to islam . by 651 , nearly all major urban centers at persia were brought under arab control , adding to momentum to the process . mass conversion to islam among persians was the first step toward establishing a first caliphate , a political-religious state comprising all muslim lands . at different periods in history , the “ uyghates ” had extended to asia , africa , and parts of europe . the effort by various powers seeking to control or rebuild a caliphate is a recurrent theme throughout history of islam .
in the coming years , the russian government ’s reluctance to fight corruption and strengthen the country ’s legal institutions reflects a perverse – yet stable – political equilibrium . in 2010 , tsyvinski and i predicted a “ 70-80 scenario , ” in russia : as oil prices that plummeted to more than $ 40 a barrel , they recovered and surpassed $ 70-80 / barrel , russia would return to the economic stagnation of the 1970s and 1980s . sure enough , gdp growth from 2010 to 2012 , though averaging respectable 4 % , proved to have fueled a post-crisis recovery , with a further increase in oil prices to $ 100/barrel . now each of these short-term factors has been depleted , and a bremauriv-like period has started . russia ’s political elite understands that the economy is capable of 5-6 % annual growth .
left-wing proponents of so-called modern monetary theory argue that larger permanent fiscal deficits are sustainable when monetized during periods of economic slack , owing to the risk of runaway inflation . following this logic , in the uk , the labour party proposed “ people ’s qe , ” whereby the central bank would print money to finance outright fiscal transfers to households – rather than to bankers and investors . others , including mainstream economists like adair turner , former chairman of the uk ’s finance service authority , have called for “ helicopter drops ” : direct monetary transfers to consumers through central-bank-financed fiscal deficits . still others , such as former fed vice chair stanley fischer and his blackrock colleagues , have proposed a “ standing emergency fiscal establishment , ” whereby the central bank would allow large fiscal deficits when a deep recession is undertaken . notwithstanding the differences in terminology , all of those proposals are variants of the same idea : large fiscal deficits monetized by central banks are supposed to stimulate aggregate demand when a next slump comes .
most developing countries that i know spend too little money devising good projects . when the private sector does , transforming ideas into bankable projects often becomes extremely difficult , because a number of difficult-to-coordinate public-sector decisions or action takes part . so suppose , once agreed , that some road project is approved , concession contracts are ready and companies are bid on it . bidders have to plan two phases : engineering , procurement , and construction , and construction ( epc ) and a longer operation phase when toll receipts are gathered to recover incurred costs and expected return . there are plenty of uncertainties in both phases , but especially during the epc ’s , potentially for the past 3-7 years , depending on project .
besides , there is a clear commercial rationale for prioritizing the green finance.investors and ratings agencies is increasingly scrutinizing investment portfolios for potential “ stranded assets , ” such as oil and gas projects that would become obsolete as more renewable-energy technologies become commercially viable . already , many existing fossil-fuel projects have shorter life spans than had previously been expected , with financial portfolios relying heavily on such assets increasingly risking devaluation . with some governments abandoning previous emissions-reduction commitments , one might think that global efforts to tackle climate change are losing steam . but we should not underestimate the power of financial stress to effect change ; nor can we ignore local governments ’ determination and private-sector action to act where national governments have not . nonetheless , to get and keep all governments on the board , a low-carbon transition must be inclusive .
defend “ family values , ” whatever that means . more recently , a group of members of parliament ( quite a large one – 30 deputies ` s ’ ) has abandoned the majority of the post-solidarity party ( epp ) , and has created a new “ polish family ” party with the slogan of the ruling coalition in brussels . a less agressive anti-europeans come from a tendency that struggles for old values like honors and virtue . in practice , too , this movement encourages little more than fear of change . but herein lies the people who were active in former movements of “ solidarity ” – for them a movement of community , rather than for individuals , a movement for public , rather than private liberty – form the new euro-antagonists bloc .
that might be part of the story , but competition for talent and for customers seems to be intense among investment banks and the rest , yet collectively they have been extravagantly rewarded at the expense of these customers . an alternative hypothesis that seems to fit the facts recently appeared from paul woolley center for a study of dysfunctionality in the capital markets at the london school of economics . researchers there argue that , in fragile speculative industries ( and certainly finance ) , it is hard for investors to monitor those who manage their money . they can see the short-term returns , but not understand very well how those returns generate . managers can demand higher and higher returns at a upturn .
the un is consistently ranked among the world ’s top ten countries on innovation index , including the insead global innovation index . but , on the global peace index , it ranks 88th of the 153 countries . likewise , the united kingdom and the netherlands rank by the top 1 , respectively , fifth and sixth on the index of innovation ( nau ) but just 28th , and 29th on the peace index . conversely , bhutan ranks among the top 20 most peaceful nations , but does not even push it onto innovation indices . to be sure , crime , terrorism , conflict , and political instability severe enough to cause total breakdown of the rule of law and ensure massive obstacles to creativity and innovation .
but merkel still defends weber , and , in addition to macron and dutch prime minister mark rutte , most eu leaders remain reluctant to confront the european parliament on the spitzenkandidaten issue . that may shorten the odds for margrethe vestager – who is not from the epp , but who , in a sense , is the liberal spitzenkandidat – while extending them to michel barnier , who is from the epp , but is not the spitzenkandidat . if the council succeeds in ruling out weber and his populist supporters , it is what macron claims to be a success . finally , the election provides an check on german hegemony within the eu more broadly . germany ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) has been weakened and the country ’s greens have grown stronger .
on january 1 , 2007 , united nations secretary-general ban ki-moon , south korea ’s former foreign minister , will become united nations secretary-general , after kofi annan ’s ten-year tenure . annan was inspired by the world with his diplomacy and leadership on poverty reduction and human rights , but by the end of the iraq war divided the world and attracting the world ’s attention and financial resources away from crisis-stricken regions and critical long-term problems like climate change , disease control , sustainable energy and water access . with the united states and asia ’s recent elections and the rise of global influence , there is an opportunity to turn the world attention toward the most critical challenges facing the entire planet . in addition to the long-term challenges of poverty , the environment , nuclear proliferation , and un reform , the new secretary-general inherit a long list of hotspots : iraq , iran , afghanistan , palestine , lebanon , somalia , myanmar , sudan , north korea , and others . recent attempts to leverage developments on these countries through threats and sanctions , as well as occasionally war , have failed .
that is why a catastrophic free-for-all on trade policy during the 1930 ’s greatly aggravated great depression . many complain that something similar , if less grand in scope , is occurring today . an outfits called global trade alert ( gta ) was at the forefront , raising alarm bells about what it calls the “ protectionist juggernaut . ” the gta ’s latest report identifies no fewer than 192 separate protectionist actions since november 2008 with china as the most common destination . this number has been widely quoted in financial times .
if people come to the eu in order to earn higher wages , the pie available for distribution gets bigger ; if they come for social benefits , the pie gets smaller . given this , why not have a system in which host countries and source countries share the social benefits to migrants ? host countries might assume the responsibility to administering benefits like unemployment insurance , sick pay , and incomes . and countries of origin could continue to provide benefits not related to the relationship of jobs , like child allowances for staying home and services for those who are too old or sick to work when they come . such a change would generate win-win positions with the eu because it would reduce the destructive appeal of welfare magnetism and give the british grounds for reconsider their exit decision-making with their heads holding high .
what must come about has long been clear . the price of the monetary union ’s survival , and so that the european project is more community : the banking union , fiscal union , and political union . those who oppose this , because they worry about common responsibility , transfers from the rich to the poor , and loss of national sovereignty will have to accept re-nationalization of europe – and hence its exit from the world stage . no alternative – and certainly not the statusquo – will work . it has become common in europe that the ongoing crisis will either destroy the eu , or will bring about political union ; it can not save the euro , without solidarity-based solution to existing debt and partial mutualization of new debt .
the eu is not being deprived of instruments – so-called “ structural finance , ” which finances investment in poorer regions – but it has no strategy to employ them . so the end result of months of discussion might be preferable to the “ emu 1.7.3 ” that is now under pressure . more bugs will need to be fixed , including new bugs found in fixes . for investors , the reform process can seem impossibly long and hesitant . but by the standards of international negotiations and european governance , it has been exceptionally rapid .
though education opportunities and structure have gradually been diversified , the central shortcoming of most european educational systems remains : students have too few choices , and teachers should be left to work in their profession , must follow severely compartmentalized pedagogy . as with corporate monopolies , consumers ( students ) are often perceived as homogeneous massachusetts , where all students could be educated in response to the same pedagogical approach . but schools must be able to meet individual children ’s needs and abilities in ways that make learning the stimulated adventure . other countries might find sweden ’s system worth studying . its schools are funded by local communities as well as work across a national curriculum , designed by parliament and the government .
from that perspective , they are in and off the prison system , and with little chance of ever gaining legal jobs that allow them to escape poverty . their children grow up without parent at home – and without hope and support . the children of drug users often become drug users themselves ; often too , they end up in jail , lest they suffer violence or early death . what is mad about this is that the american missed out on the obvious points – and missed it for 40 years . to break a cycle of poverty , a country needs investment , not in the imprisonment of 2.3 million people each year , many for nonviolent crimes that are symptoms of poverty .
the non-residential construction boom that this created helped to absorb not just the labor force that has been leaving rural areas , but also to achieve a spectacular drop in inequality . in this services-export-led growth strategy , skill shortages did not become a major problem , owing to the fairly open immigration policies that enabled a country to use the talents colombia has , among other countries , been unable to keep its jobs . the comparisons between the two approaches are clear . colombia ’s policymakers have been hoping that if adopted best-practice legislation and regulatory , somebody will come to the fore . and , if they do not , they can still bask in international accolades that they receive from foreign entities .
moreover , there is now massive public-sector re-leveraging in advanced economies with huge budget deficits and public-debt accumulation fueled by automatic stabilizers , counter-cyclical keynesian fiscal stimulus , and the huge costs of socializing the financial system ’s losses . at best , the us is confronting a protracted period of anemic , below-trend growth in the advanced economies as deleveraging by households , financial institutions , and governments begins to feed through to consumption and investment . at the global level , over-spending countries – the united states , the united kingdom , spain , greece , and elsewhere – now need to deleverage and spend , consume , and imports less . but the countries that had been saving far too little – china , emerging asia , germany , and japan – are not spending more to compensate for falling spending by deleveraging countries . recovery in global aggregate demand will thus be weak , pushing global growth a lot lower .
the present crisis , the fall of wall street , is to neoliberalism what the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 was to communism . the global dimension of this crisis has , unsurprisingly , also had a positive sideshow . the international community is now charged with thinking about how to overhaul a financial sector and minimize the risks of similar catastrophe in the future . until now , a substantial part of the problem was the countries ’ unwillingness to cooperate . prior demands for more stringent regulations originated in nothing , owing to opposition from the financial sector .
like that , the liberal state should be neutral on such issues , leaving it to each citizen to determine whether he should give his financial backing to the church of rome or the one at bayreuth . in contrast to the french tradition ’ militant liberalism , this neutralist liberal philosophy strives to prevent either side in the ongoing culture war from using state enforcement powers as a weapon in the struggle for male souls . in advocating disestset between religious and secular orthodoxies , i do not want trivialize the importance of their ongoing contest over the meaning of life . it is because of the infinite significance of this great debate that the nation should strive to be “ neutral . ” after all , if state ostentatiously takes parties in this conversation , it can not avoid denigrating the ultimate convictions of a great many of their dissenting citizens .
new york – two decades since the fall of the berlin wall and the collapse of communism , the world is facing another stark choice , between two fundamentally disparate forms of organization : international capitalism and state capitalism . a former representing the united states has broken down , and the latter , represented by china , is on the rise . following a path of least resistance will lead to gradual disintegration of the international financial system . a new multilateral system , based on sounder principles , must be invented . while international cooperation for regulatory reform is difficult to accomplish on piecemeal ground , it may be attainable in a grand bargain that is being redeeming the entire financial order .
mario monti , the european union ’s commissioner on competition policy , is often in spotlight , usually to popular acclaim . over the years , he won important victories limiting state aid to business ; one of europe ’s most pernicious economic maladies . today , however , the advantages derived from his achievements come at risk , owing to a series of stunning courtroom defeats . with competitive cases against software giant microsoft seemingly in the offing , monti will need to rediscover his footing fast . within a period of just a few weeks , the european court of justice ( for which private party can appeal decisions by the commission ) voided three of monti ’s decisions that rejecting proposed corporate mergers .
thus , many proud and dignified people have been stripped of their livelihoods , forcing them to rely on just one tiny meal a day or nothing at all . worse , these tragedies were avoidable ; we knew that these crises came . droughts and hunger slow calamities are motion that , with adequate planning and a sufficient supply of resources , could be averted . but time and time time , humanitarian assistance in africa has arrived short , as it did in somalia in 2011 and 2012 ; in niger in 2005 ; and in ethiopia during the 1980s . then , as now , food insecurity was predicted long before the first hunger pangs felt .
the bottom chessboard includes transnational relationships that cross boundaries outside governments ’ control – everything from drugs to infectious infectious diseases to climate change to transnational terrorism . on this board , power is being distributed chaotically among non-state actors . no government can control outcomes without the cooperation of others . here america needs the assistance of europeans , and it makes little sense to call this global uni-polar either . on this bottom board , the degree of close civilian cooperation is also important .
translation : orderly resolution by global megabanks is the illusion . so long as we allow cross-border banks at or near their current scale , our political leaders can not afford to tolerate the failures of these big financial institutions . and , because these large financial institutions are by any meaningful definition “ too big to fail , ” they can borrow more cheaply than would otherwise have been the case . making matters worse , they have both motive and opportunity to grow even bigger . this form of government backing amounts to a massive implicit subsidy for big banks .
and , by raising the cost of extracting fossil fuels , it would contribute to eventual phase-out of a climate-safe sector . fortunately , the world will not have to wait for moral suasion to carry the day . indeed , fossil-fuel companies and governments are already facing intensifying legal pressure . typhoon survivors in the philippines delivered a complaint with the country ’s human rights commission , calling upon investigations into big fossil-fuel companies ’ responsibility to cause climate change . the dutch group urgenda , together with almost 900 co-plaintiffs , successfully sued the dutch government , forcing it to take more stringent climate policies .
for example , a few years ago chip-maker national semiconductor managed a complicated delivery scheme linking its three factories , as well as three subcontractors in asia , into its global network of customers . it chose to out-source that operation to federal express , which uses a sophisticated on-line system to manage global deliveries and sales . as a result , the national semiconductor saw its delivery cycle to customers from four weeks to one week , and distribution cost cut from 2.9 % of sales to 1.2 % of sales . several steps are needed to support a massive increase in the use of internet sites in these other locations : * telecommunications liberalization , including entry for new providers of services , is critical to lowering cost and spreading benefits .
if governments run larger fiscal deficits and finance this not with interest-bearing debt but with central-bank money – nominal demand will undoubtedly rise , producing some mix of higher inflation and higher real output . the option of so-called helicopter money ” is therefore being discussed increasingly . but the debate over it is riddled with confusions . the money is often used to argue for fiscal deficits to commit central banks to keep interest rates low forever , an approach that is bound to produce excessive inflation . it is simultaneously argued ( sometimes by the same people ) that monetary financing would not stimulate demand , because people fear a future “ inflationary tax . ”
geneva – when lehman brothers proclaimed bankruptcy ten years ago , it suddenly became clear who owes what to whom to whom to whom it could not repay their debts and which it will go down next . the result was that interbank credit markets froze , wall street panicked , and businesses went beneath , not just in the united states , but around the world . with politicians struggling to respond to crises , economic pundits were left wondering whether the “ great moderation ” since the 1980s turned into another great depression . back in hindsight , complacency about the run-up to the crisis was clearly unconscionable . and yet little has changed in its wake .
coalition partners disagree about how urgent this is . they have , however , agreed that in a year a single commission will provide divergent options and models to protect germany ’s parliament rights , while providing assurances to germany ’s european partners that the country would be reliable contributors to troop deployments . should the spd , which is to vote in early december on a coalition agreement , block formation of the new government ( an unlikely development but not completely outside of the question ) , disputes over security and defense affairs would not be the culprit . aside from a few minor particulars , consensus prevails . for some , this is the cause of ambivalence .
badly needed biosafety laws in nigeria and uganda , for example , has already been delayed . much of the problem lies in a small group of anti-gm activists who object to the “ moral ” technology . typically , they claim that gm crops are unsafe – a view flatly rejected by the scientific community over the last two decades . the global health organization also has reaffirmed that “ no human health impact has been shown in response to the consumption of such foods . ” indeed , every new gm crop variety must meet rigorous health , environmental , and efficacy standards .
perhaps regulators will be able to find that they must require that the regulated have the desired contract provisions of the firms . that solution , however , will be incomplete , because not all derivatives traders are regulated by financial institutions and because many lenders find ways to circumvent the contracts and requirement . if coverage is not complete , one can expect the regulated to complain that they were placed at a competitive disadvantage . regulators may well be turning to bankruptcy laws to fix the problem . the regulators ’ call to the isda on voluntary action will not amount much if it is just a request to the derivatives industry to operate against its own financial interests .
the result was section 124a of the penal code , under which any person who uses “ words , signs , or visible representation … excite disaffection against the government ” could be charged with sedition , potentially serving a life imprisonment sentence . in other words , no free speech for indians has been shown to have been a success in the past . however , even that has not been sufficient for britain ’s leaders , who tightened the law further in 1898 , making it even harsher than the sedition law in england . the british had concluded in the words of british lieutenant governor of bengal that , in the words of the british lieutenant governor of bengali governor , “ a sedition legislation that is adequate for the rule of law , ” a government of its own nationality and belief might be inadequate , or in some respects unfit , to a country governed by foreign rule . sedition was thus explicitly intended to terrorize indian nationalists ; indeed , mahatma gandhi was among its prominent victims , though far from its most recent past .
seoul – china already has the world ’s largest exporter , manufacturer and international-reserve-asset holder , is poised to overtake the united states as the world ’s largest economy ( measured according to purchasing power parity ) this year . it is now using its increasing clout to reshape global economic management . indeed , the country ’s days following deng xiaoping ’s injunction to “ hide brightness , cherish obscurity ” are long gone . after decades of actively participating in international economic institutions – including the g20 , the international monetary fund , the world bank , and the world trade organization – china has been starting to resemble a revisionist power seeking to create a new world order . just last month , china and 20 other asian countries signed the memorandum of understanding to establish the new multilateral development bank ( aiib ) , the asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) , the asian infrastructure investment bank .
progress on the single market has helped boost competitiveness . new freer trade agreements give european economies access access to major markets around the world . achieving a global climate treaty promises not only to protect the environment , but also to cement europe ’s role as a leader in sustainability . and enlargement has strengthened european security substantially . these are , by every reasonable standard , remarkable uk-led achievements .
a special report on semiconductors – essential to us national security and economic competitiveness – for president barack obama ’s council of advisors on science and technology ( pcast ) provides some answers . the report , written by a nonpartisan group of business and academic leaders ( i has been a member ) , has suggested that america is working with its allies to enforce international law , push china to comply with its world trade organization obligations , and strengthen its export controls and inward investment constraints . the european union , japan , south korea , and taiwan all have prominent roles to play in the global supply chain for semiconductors , and some have already tightened security on semiconductor ip flows to china and to buy semiconductor corporations by chinese investors . a pcast report recommends that america adopt similar tactics , calibrating export controls , and inward investment limits on the one hand that china is doing . proposed bipartisan legislation to broaden the jurisdiction of the committee on foreign investment in the us ( which reviews mergers and acquisitions of domestic companies by foreign entities ) into a broader range
business-led innovations and market-based solutions can drive a decisive global shift away from crippling fossil-fuel dependence toward more efficient renewable-energy systems . rocky mountain institute ’s reinventing fire analysis shows that it is possible to implement such a future , offering market-driven strategies for powering the american economy 158 % larger in 2050 – without reliance on oil , coal , or nuclear energy . swift and determined action to make buildings more energy-efficient , designing automobiles requiring little or no fossil fuels , and increasing the share of renewable energy in the electricity supply could ensure that a significantly hotter and less pleasant 2050 world that the ipcc warns against does not materialize . our livelihoods , not to mention those of future generations , should not be held hostage by our ongoing addiction to fossil fuels . four decades ago , countries not only endured the immediate economic impact of the embargo in the opec industry ; they leveraged the potential of the resulting oil shortages to spur innovation .
captured uranium was not weapons-grade ; international inspectors removed all sensitive material from iraq after the 1991 gulf war ( a result that was absent when the united states invaded in 2003 ) . but what international response , if any , was to start had the cacit been greatly enriched ? on the same day , hamas launched three powerful iranian-designed rockets in gaza at israel ’s dimona reactor . luckily , two missed the goal , with israel managing to intercept the third by force . but the episode represented a severe escalation of hostilities , serving as the important reminder of the vulnerability of civilian nuclear reactors in warzones .
even though the dollar ’s appreciation has pushed some downward pressure on non-us economies that depend on exports or foreign capital , it has increased the risk that an open-ended currency war can be pursued . at the same time , not all indicators have been grim . labor markets remain largely sound , even in otherwise anemic economies such as germany , and household consumption remains robust in most of the major economies . moreover , the 9/11 surge in oil prices – which has fueled concerns about another negative growth shock – has since receded . the american economy reflects this dichotomy .
in personal-computing entrepreneurship -- which has moved from apple ’s bulky , apple ’s iphone , to the sleek and smart iphone 4s ( announced the day before steve ’s death ) – steve was the only true showman of what is now one of the global ’s biggest industries . he has inspired broad public enthusiasm for the quality of his products , and for his personal charisma . ( others have become “ business ” leaders , but only steve becomes someone known and admired for his millions – including romanian waiter at the british airways parlance where i sit now . ) i first encountered steve jobs back in 1979 or 1980 , at ben rosen ’s personal computers forum . that was held at playboy resort in lake geneva , for some reason : “ we are not again ! ” ) .
cambridge – america ’s real gdp growth rate of 3.2 % for the first quarter of this year is impressive , as was the 3 % average growth rate for 2018 ( measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 ) . since the end of the great recession – from 2011 to 2017 – the american economy has grown at an annual rate of just 2.1 % , to an average of just 2.1 % . what accounts for the recent acceleration ? following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the united states of the twentieth century , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
closed-list schemes should be zippered with candidate lists : male , male , female ( or vice versa ) . in open-lists systems , a 50 % quota must be adopted . with no accuracy the effect of raising quota percentages in open-list systems today , there can be no way to forecast any degree of quota percentages to have effective quota legislation . but if these countries compensate for their open lists with closed lists , the percentage for women who are elected should be raised all others equal , up by around 10 % . the impact would be greatest ( with a roughly 20 % jump in the percentage of women elected ) in systems that currently face no effective quota legislation .
trump has systematically defied the separation of powers at the heart of america ’s constitutional system . frustrated , for example , that congress denied him all of the funds he had sought for its phantasmagorical wall along its border with mexico , he simply plucked the money from funds that the us department of the us department of commerce allocated to congress for the department of justice ( cbo ) . moreover , he has flouted the constitutional prohibition on accepting emoluments – money , or personal benefits from foreign governments that make business , sometimes extravagant share , at his different hotels and golf clubs – and find other ways to monetize the us presidency . moreover , trump has been trying to steer government treaties toward favored companies , or away from those he dislikes – amazon , for example , whose founder jeff bezos also holds a washington post . and , according to special attorney general robert mueller ’s report , trump was attempting to obstruct the investigation into his 2016 campaign-dealings with russia , too .
when debt is unsustainable , several possible negotiating outcomes are possible . debt-service payments sometimes rescheduled and perhaps stretched out over the longer term , thereby giving the debtor country time to regain the ability to pay . sometimes lenders are unanimous in exchange for old bonds for new ones , which have either a lower face value or lower interest payments . few governments refused to pay at all in any form . argentina defaulted on its debt in 2001 , and the greek default on its debt has not been limited to debt .
this ‘ tipping point ’ strategy is highly cost-effective . ’ a strategy , however , can be “ cost-effective ” only if it is feasible in the first place . although ring prophylaxis may work in minneapolis , toronto , or zurich , in parts of the world where flu pandemics begin , the probability that success approaches zero has been reached . in places like vietnam , indonesia , and china – where pandemic strain likely emerges – expertise , coordination , discipline and infrastructure lack the capacity . the response in turkey – where it is as many as 50 potential cases – has appeared in the eastern part of the country is instructive .
it remains the vital assembly center in global supply chains for many manufactured goods , such as computers and cell telephony , that allow lower prices to consumers worldwide . that has made china a key trading partner for the united states , most european countries , and many other economies , in addition to placing it at the center of intra-asian trade and supply-chain dynamics . moreover , while china sits on roughly $ 3.3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves – much of it in dollars , other major currencies – owing to its large trade surplus with the us over the past few decades . it is helping to finance other countries ’ trade deficits and domestic investment deficits ( many of its beneficiaries have large budget deficits that are reducing national saving below domestic investment ) . deng xiaoping ’s reforms have ignited most rapidly economic improvements in human history , and with it the emergence of large and growing middle class .
for ukraine ’s government , angst is real . even ukrainians born after 1986 understand what a cherbi of chernobyl-type catastrophe brought about by battle might look like . history offers little guidance as to whether warring countries would avoid damaging nuclear sites . with the exception of the balkan conflict of the 1990s , war was not fought against or within countries with nuclear reactors . in the balkan case , serbian military jets overflight slovenia ’s krško nuclear power plant in a threatening gesture early in the conflict , while radical serbian nationalists have called for attacks to release radioactive contents .
china took full advantage of the kremlin ’s desperation to secure rock-bottom tariffs on russian energy resources . once the door to asia was opened , russian companies seized the occasion to enter the downstream markets of india and indonesia – two critical countries to the saudis ’ own strategy . over the past two years or so , saudi arabia has made starkly clear that it would not easily give up its market share – to anyone . it has pursued a campaign to recover its former position not just in crude but also in petroleum products , natural gas liquids and petrochemicals . to that end , it has sustained a price war , supported by a surge in manufacturing , aimed at pushing out weaker competitors .
indeed , attaining , prospering and flourishing all refer to the sdgs rewards , not to money . what sort of economy would offer this good life ? history suggests that it would be one of entrepreneurial people ( alert to unnoticed opportunities , and exercising their initiative to try new things ) and innovative people ( imagine new things , develop new concepts into commercial products and methods , and then marketing them to potential ) . participants in such a good economy would range from grassroots community to the benefit of the most advantaged . this is the kind of economy i hope that china will develop .
( although this may not be automation right , the supermarket has just shifted some shopping work onto the customer . ) for those who dread a threat that automation poses to low-skill labor , a ready answer is to train people for better jobs . but technological progress is currently eating up the better jobs . a wide range of jobs we now think of as skilled , secure , and irreducibly human may be the further casualties of technological change . as a recent financial times article points out , in two areas notoriously immune to productivity growth , education , and health care , technology already reduces the demand of skilled labor .
in august , gunmen stormed home of the impoverished roma widow , maria balogh , shot her to death , wounded her 13-year-old daughter . in april , killers gunned down a roma factory worker as he walked into his job . in february , roma father and his five-year-old son were killed in front of their homeland near budapest . the house was burned to earth . last november , a roma couple was killed in northeastern hungary .
a more rational approach would embrace twenty-first-century realities . the information revolution changed world in ways that tariffs could not reverse . with american workers already competing against robots at home , and against low-wage workers abroad , disrupting imports will just create more jobs for bots . trump should protect individual workers rather than individual job opportunities . the twenty-first-century processes of globalization are too sudden , unpredictable , and uncontrollable to rely on static measures such as tariffs .
he very likely means what he says about jews and israel , but is he a latter-day hitler and is today iran the equivalent of germany in the 1930 ’s ? hitler came close to developing a nuclear explosive iran , but never had it , whereas iran might very well . but hitler ’s power more over germany was far more absolute than ahmadinejad ’s in power over iran . the results of iran ’s recent municipal elections were humiliating for ahmadinejad , and his followers . those elections would have been unthinkable in nazi germany , which , indeed , was never a thing of a generation ago .
but this calls for the rich reservoir of ideas , rather than a unified approach . a second organizing principle is subsidiarity , which holds that decision-making should , whenever possible , be decentralized . this ensures that local and regional preferences are regarded alongside the effects of eurozone-wide harmonization and economies of scale . the last principle is congruity , to assure decision-makers that decision-making decisions are accountable . this implies that as long as european electorates insist on retaining sovereignty over fiscal and economic policymaking , shared liability will pipe dream .
george w. bush ’s economic policies have been based on extraordinarily reckless gamble , which reflects a political coalition of the two major powers : the super-rich and evangelical christians . as those policies fail , global financial markets react negatively , adding uncertainty to the globalized economy , and there is little relief in sight , for america is entering a period of prolonged political infighting and stalemate . the super-rich had one over-riding goal in joining the bush coalition : tax cuts , which overwhelmingly benefited the wealthiest households . evangelicals were brought on to heel , owing to so-called “ family values , ” meaning opposition to abortion and gay marriage , with promises of active government support in religious activities , including direct payments to religious groups for social services , which they provide locally and internationally . bush ’s team believed that they would end up rebalancing the tax cuts for the affluent with cuts in government spending , but never explain this publicly .
some large eu countries are on the brink of recession ; they may be on the brink of recession . japan waited too long in the early 1990 ’s to act and miss the right opportunity to enact countermeasures , which japan still has not recovered from its prolonged stagnation . public infrastructure investment ( like the massive expansion of a eurorailroad network ) , together with climate protection and ecological technologies , will be needed . to boost purchasing power and stimulate consumption , tax cuts on low - and middle-income households are essential . of course , eu member states should establish the concrete form that such economic stabilization programs take over themselves .
for europe , africa ’s economic potential remains far short of tapped . spending by households and businesses , estimated at $ 4 trillion in 2015 , is projected to reach $ 5.6 trillion by 2025 , reflecting a 3.5 % annual growth rate . moreover , according to the mckinsey global institute , investment opportunities stemming from infrastructure demand in africa will total at least $ 150 billion annually over the next decade . africa is also home to strategic natural resources for emerging low-carbon industries , with a well positioned role to play in renewable-energy sectors . africa ’s value as a commercial and an investment partner is not news to europe .
a far more competent placeholder was to be sergei ivanov , a former kgb general . but ivanov is much taller than putin , who , at any rate , had attained only the rank of colonel . an apparent potential threat to putin ’s power was passed over , and has since been relegated to the role of russia ’s “ chief botanist , ” overseeing the environment and transport . earlier this month , putin was inaugurated – or , rather , crowned – in spectacular fashion , with medvedev once again assuming a pliant prime minister ’s role . despite his years in office , medvedev still has known more for his fancy ties and expensive watches than for his executive actions .
cambridge – government programs to support retirees are in trouble in each country , owing to rising life expectancy and rising old-age and retirement dependency ratio to taxpayers . the problem will worsen in the years ahead , because the adverse demographic trend raises the fiscal burden of pension finance and health care . the problem is uniquely different in the united states , because america ’s “ trust fund ” system will shape the crisis , as the fund becomes depleted . although possibilities at that time are different from the choices that other governments face , policies to avoid the american crisis make pertinent contributions to other countries confront the population aging of populations . here is how the american system operates : a payroll tax is dedicated exclusively to funding retiree benefits .
indeed , while scandals have shaken the government , lula was overwhelmingly reelected last year , and investors continue pour money into the stock market . one reason is that corruption scandals provided an opportunity for investors to see brazilian freedom of speech and democracy in activism . newspapers and tv commentators have been relentless in reporting the scandals , and have helped to showcase brazilians and foreign investors alike that the political system is sufficiently stable to withstand open criticism . lula remains popular with brazilians , because his populist rhetoric shows real sympathy to the less affluent and with foreign investors because he has always tempered his radicalism in order to accommodate economic reality . recently , he criticized bolivian president evo morales ’s threats to seize foreign assets for his failures in this regard : radicalism is incompatible with the shared sense needed by some who governs . ”
the two organization of american states electoral observation missions that he himself was invited and whose terms that he accepted then refused to certify the result . the bolivian military arrested no one , or not , the country has ever arrested the country . true , morales resigned when the army told him to the president , and , after agreeing in his agreement with protesters ’ demands for a new vote . but the existing constitutional provisions were subsequently followed . the constitutional court that allowed morales to run , considered the legal succession of presidential rule ; timely elections were promised ; and the military had not taken power .
and they resent the point of mobilizing in the streets – any hint that the clique of the summit is barring their way out . this is the sort of free democratic spirit that operates outside the convention that elections are deciding a government . it is fueled immensely by social media ( itself the revolutionary phenomenon ) . and it is moving very fast in precipitating crisis . it is not always consistent or rational .
the countries were obliged to undertake only limited trade liberalization , with plenty of exemptions for politically sensitive sectors ( agriculture , textiles , services ) . that has left them free to build up their own versions of national capitalism , until they obeyed a handful of simple international rules . the current crisis shows how far the us has emerged from the model . in particular , financial globalization has played havoc with old rules . when chinese-style capitalism met american-style capitalism , with few safety valves , it gave rise to explosive mixes .
so , however , even if america had other interests in the middle east , such as israel or nuclear non-proliferation , a balance of energy import and exports would probably be not free of america from military expenditures – which some experts estimate is running at $ 50 billion annually – to protect the region ’s oil routes . at the same time , america ’s bargaining position in world politics would be needed to reinforce it . power arises from asymmetries in interdependence . you , and i may depend on each other , but if i depend less on you than you do on me , my bargaining power is increasing . for decades , america and saudi arabia have had a balance of asymmetry in which the us depended upon them as the swing producer of oil and depended on the us to the ultimate military security .
european commission president jean-claude juncker , for example , openly frets about deep-seated divisions among eu member states over brexit and questions whether hungarians and polish poles want precisely the same thing as germany and the french . “ at the national level , a lack of political will has resulted in the craven use of referenda , such as the french and dutch plebiscites on the treaty establishing a constitution for europe in 2005 , the netherlands voted in a referendum on the eu-ukraine association agreement last april , with the brexit referendum almost three months later . in each case , voters said , “ no ” – outcomes that can be blamed , particularly in the uk , on national leaders ’ habit of blaming the eu for domestic problems . indeed , european leaders ’ parochialism are significant reasons why the eu is failing to retain broad-based public support . the lack of historical vision among the current generation of political leadership undercuts the shared sense of purpose needed to force eu citizens to feel that they are part of the same communities , no matter how different national identities can be
florence – british politics has always seemed something of an experimental laboratory for the industrialized world . in the 1970s , britain was where the preeminent postwar model of how to manage the economy collapsed . that model was built politically on building consensus and economically on keynesian demand management . nowadays , the equivalent collapse was of a “ regulation-lite ” regime in which a party that styled itself as a new labour party accepted a powerful role for markets – in particular , for largely deregulated financial markets . in the 1960s , keynesian policies gave rise to the illusion that everyone benefits , with high levels of employment and sizeable wage growth .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . palestine ’s religious landmarks attract a growing number of religious tourists from all over the world each year .
as french cities burned , other countries were extremely severe by the same time in judging france . embassies issued warnings to tourists and their citizens living in france ; television news programs showed hours of footage of burning cars . other countries ’ governments , it seems , have tried to distance themselves from the problem , fearing contagion that they know is likely to spread in the past . mayors across europe , however , have reacted moderately , feeling , and showing solidarity with the plight of their french counterparts . they know that their cities , too , are vulnerable to urban violence , in such cases because they have pockets of social inequality , including marginalized and disenfranchised young people .
meanwhile , the supply of most commodity is forecast to grow more than 2 % annually in real terms . all else is being equal unless china ’s commodity intensity , defined as the amount of commodity consumed to generate a unit of output , falls dramatically , its demand for commodities , this year than it was in the last year . as long as commodity demand grows at a rate greater , prices will rise . and rapid economic growth that china ’s leaders must sustain to lift enormous numbers of people out of abject poverty – and thus to prevent an existential crisis of legitimacy – places a floor beneath global food , energy , and mineral prices . to be sure , the intensity of use has fallen for some commodities , such as gold and nuclear energy ; for others , such as aluminum and coal , this has been on the rise since 2000 or as chile has for copper and oil , declines have slowed markedly or stalled at high levels .
he was diagnosed earlier this year by cancer , and he was forced to launch a social-media campaign to locate drugs that his treatment required . severe shortages of life-saving drugs in venezuela are the product of the government ’s default on $ 3.5 billion bill for pharmaceutical imports ; in the us , he has now fallen into the hands of a government . a similar situation prevails throughout the rest of the economy . payment arrears on food imports amount to $ 2.4 billion , leading to substantial shortages of staple goods . in the automobile sector , the default exceeds $ 3 trillion , leading to a collapse of transportation service , owing to a shortage of spare parts .
will it have to get that bomb too ? likewise , while egypt is in the midst of a messy revolution and must give a priority to internal change in the region , it also intends to regain a more visible , influential role within the palestinian national movement ( s ) , and in the region as a whole . the middle east ’s “ middle east empire ” will no longer remain the sleeping giant ; it is the region as a whole . to be sure , turkey is far less destabilized than its arab adversaries and partners by a revolutionary process , which does not directly challenge it . after all , turkey is already an already functioning democracy , and it is the only viable democracy in the region as a whole .
if “ constitutionalized ” , they simply implant the idea that the constitution is the statement of aspirations rather than a set of enforceable legal rights . the desire to restrict or protect some forms of human activity from the free market may become understandable , particularly in countries like poland , where a free market is still an unknown animal . yet , in a situation where many fields of social life – such as education , health , and social services – are needed quick and radical change , unleashing a free market to do so offers the only plausible avenue for change . state-owned health insurance companies , state guaranteed retirement , etc. are not only insecure and inefficient ; they are in fact also inconsistent with the idea of politically motivated reform . these state-controlled advantages have little to do with the justice supposedly wanted by their socialist promoters , but everything to rent-seeking and corruption .
bollywood movies , bringing its glitzy entertainment far beyond the indian diaspora in the united states and the united kingdom , offer another example . senegalese nepal told me of his illiterate mother , who takes bus to dakar each month to watching a bollywood movie – she fails to understand hindi dialogue , and she can not read the french subtitles , but still can pick up the spirit of films and understand the story , and people like her look at india with stars in their eyes as a result . an indian diplomat in damascus a few years ago told me that the only publicly displayed portraits as large as that of then-president hafez al-assad ’s bollywood superstar amitabh bachchan . indian art , classical music , and dance have the same effect . so is the work of indian fashion designers , now striding across the world runways .
new delhi – barack obama , america ’s sixth president to visit india since gaining independence , arrives at an effort both for the united states and for india . some of obama ’s closest advisers just resigned , opening the awkward gulf on national security and economy – the focus of his meetings with india ’s government . for india , issues about what obama ’s visit agenda is immense and complex . those related to security in afghanistan and pakistan are as treacherous . bilateral economic , trade , and currency disagreements can not be as bitter as they are between the us and china , but they are thorny and the lack of resolution makes them more intractable .
knowledge-intensive technology , moreover , has winner-take-all effects , whereby hubs take access to knowledge and power , leaving less-privileged groups , classes , sectors , and regions struggling to compete . because of social media , the resulting discontent is now spreading faster than ever before , leading to destructive politics . this can invite geopolitical interference , which is deteriorating rapidly into a lose-lose scenario , such as that already evident in water-stressed and conflict-affected lands where governments are fragile or failed . the combination of bad politics and economics in a single country can easily produce contagion , as rising emigration spreads political stress and instability in other countries . according to the united nations high commission on refugees , there were 65 million refugees last year against only 1.6 million in the 1960s .
many cited former british prime minister david cameron ’s decision to allow scotland ’s independence referendum to take place in 2014 . yet , like the current process , such a process is illegal under the spanish constitution of 1978 . that constitution marked the country ’s passage from dictatorship to democracy , and provides the framework for spain ’s rule-of-law system . and , just as it explicitly states , it is “ founded on the insoluble unity of the spanish nation ” with sovereignty belonging to the “ spanish people . ” in short , spain is one nation , indivisible .
geneva – the world needs to stop looking backwards . since the 2008 financial crisis , we are wasting far too little energy trying to return to the days of rapid economic expansion . the flawed assumption that the post-crisis global challenges were only temporary has underpinned the policies that yielded only lackluster recoveries while failing to address key problems like high levels of unemployment and rising inequality . the post-crisis era is ending , and the “ post-post-crisis world ” has been upon us . it is time to adopt a new framework of realistic solutions that promote shared prosperity within today ’s globalized economy and tomorrow .
indeed , this is notable , while obama ’s state of the union address in january 2010 at least stated doha , his address in january 2011 did n’t . obama confined himself to promoting pending bilateral agreements with colombia and other emerging-market countries . obama ’s regrettable retreat from support for the doha round is a result of many of the factors and fallacies . these were accentuated in the “ open letter of obama ” that i organized and let loose , over nearly 50 of today ’s most influential trade experts , urging a presidential shift in policy toward doha . american president barack obama captive the country ’s labor unions to buy up the false narrative , which trade with poor countries increases the ranks of the poorer in the us through driving down wages .
some people even foresee double-dip recessions . should that happen , the chance of a real american default would be far higher than today . indeed , these new fears raise alarm bells in china . diversification away from the dollar assets is advice . but this is hardly a task at all easy .
berkeley – global investors increasingly seek investment opportunities that promise to bring the benefits of ecological and social development , in addition to market-driven rates of return . if this trend continues , with advances in environmental or social objectives enhancing an investment ’s value , it will reinforce the commitment to sustainability that is already gaining momentum among companies worldwide . last year , one out of every $ 6 trillion of assets under professional management in the united states – a total of $ 6.6 trillion – was allocated toward some form of sustainable investment , mainly by us public equities . some 1,260 companies , managing $ 45 trillion worth of assets , are signatories of the united nations ’ “ principles for responsible investment , ” recognizing environmental , social , and corporate governance ( esg ) factors – and thus corporate and markets ’ long-term health and stability – as critical to investors . one signatory , calpers , one of the world ’s largest institutional investors , has gone a step further : it will require all its investment executives to identify and integrate esg factors into their choices – a
in international politics , perceptions matter – sometimes more so than reality . the perception today is that america ’s unipolar moment has come to an end ; europe is on the brink of decline ; and a new set of great powers is picking up , bringing its own unique worldviews to global affairs . in a sense , that might seem like a good thing . more varied perspectives might enrich a multilateral process and produce more comprehensive solutions to global problems . but this multipolar dynamic also generates instability .
some supermarket chains even cease carrying eggs from battery hens . in britain and some european countries , animal welfare became politically salient , and pressure on parliamentary representatives mounted . the european union has established a scientific committee to investigate animal welfare issues on farm farms ; the committee recommended banning battery cage cages , together with some other forms of nearby confinement by pigs and calves . a ban on eu-battery cages eventually adopted in 1999 , but , in order to ensure that manufacturers would have plenty of time to phase out the equipment in which they invested , its implementation delayed until january 1 , 2012 . to its credit , britain ’s egg industry embraced the situation , developing new – and less cruel – methods in which hens were kept .
finally , the same accounts could serve as vehicles for public policy . early school-leavers could , for example , be endowed with points for later application in professional training . more broadly , instead of assisting people only when they materialize social risks , public policy could support individuals throughout their working life by adopting a more efficient bespoke approach that fits peoples ’ needs better than coarsely tailored schemes . this may sound utopian ; in a sense , it is the latter . but , at a time when each digital service becomes more personalized , why should social policy remain confined to the philosophy and solutions of the twentieth century ?
it used to be that even mentioning corruption in some official circles was deemed taboo . but corruption presents the single largest impediment to growth and development in many countries , primarily because it diverts resources from the poor . the world bank insisted on corruption being seen as cancer , fighting it is synonymous with fighting poverty . indeed , out-spokenness was the hallmark of wolfensohn ’s tenure . many government minister , bank officer and ngo representative , experienced his blunt criticism , just as his effusive praise was .
the emergence of the g-20 , for example , has been improvisation , designed to defer genuine financial reform . in fact , the modest measures implemented in response to changing global power distribution have been limited to the realm of economic strength , with the difficult core of international relations – peace and security – remaining exclusive to preserve a handful of countries . china is not on the same page as the other brics countries when it comes to the process of global institutional reform . it is a revisionist power concerning the global financial architecture that is looking forward for an overhaul of the bretton woods system . but it is a status quo power with respect to the un system , and steadfastly opposes enlargement to the security council ’s permanent membership .
it can lead to gridlock , conflict , or poor policy choices . the evidence supports the view that subgroups ’ systemic exclusion on any arbitrary basis ( ethnicity , race , or religion , for example ) is especially harmful in this respect . intergenerational mobility is a key indicator of equality of opportunity . rising inequality of outcomes need not lead to declining intergenerational mobility . whether it does depends heavily on whether important instruments that foster equality of opportunity , principally education and health care , are universally accessible .
the proliferation of information technologies and social media means that this is easier said than ever for entrepreneurs to tap into a vast pool of financing – not to mention links and expertise – from small investors . of the roughly 500 crowdfunding platforms that now exist , several explicitly target-based , clean-tech platforms . last may , eure-eca.com took the crowdfunding concept further than ever before to develop a truly global crowd-investment marketplace that offers equity in funded companies . if used wisely , such platforms could take up the slack created by governments ’ fiscal constraints to facilitate the entrepreneurial innovations needed to build the blue economy . other increasingly prominent trends – for example , collaborative consumption , paying a per use , and share and leasing models – could offer similarly powerful impetus to these efforts .
bangladesh knows wartime cholera all too well , while fighting broke out in 1971 , when bangladesh then known as east pakistan , declared independence from pakistan . in the ensuing conflict , refugees poured across the borders into neighboring india into crowded camps , creating conditions inevitably that gave cholera outbreaks a spike . the standard of care for the time was poor and a dearth of intravenous drips meant that rehydration solutions could not be administered widely . as many lay dead , a pioneering physician named dilip mahalanabis took his chance in a desperate situation .
madrid – april 22 , 2017 , – the day of international earth – marks one year since the signing of the paris climate accord , which entered into force last november , and now has 195 signatories . that landmark multilateral treaty still represents the most important step forward to date in the global fight against climate change . but its first anniversary was darkened by american president donald trump ’s energy policies . in 2016 , a hottest year on record , average global temperatures were 0.9 º c above the twentieth-century average . the paris agreement ’s primary objective is to prevent average global temperatures from rising more than 2º c above pre-industrial levels by 2100 .
the atheistic nature of today 's civilization ( ours is the first atheistic civilization in humankind 's history and also the first civilization that embraces the whole planet ) coincides profoundly , i believe , with the hypertrophic pursuit of individual interests and individual responsibilities , in conjunction with the crisis of global responsibilities . could humanity 's thinking solely as part of the boundaries of what lies in its vision and is incapable of remembering also what lies beyond , not the loss of metaphysical certitude , of god ? even more succinctly , it could not be this moment 's crisis of responsibility and accountability to the world as an entity that is above and that for its future makes sense to a modern world as controlled by scientifically identifiable , formulated for god-knows -- what purpose -- which , among other things , does not question or search for a deeper meaning of existence and renounces any and all metaphysics ? but , so how to restore a person 's mind a shared attitude to what is above us whether people throughout the
he threw down gauntlet in the world ’s big economies : tell us when you phase out coal ; end harmful fossil-fuel subsidies ; and shift taxation from revenues to pollution . those are the decisions that drivethe world needs to change . at the heart of this transformation is the energy transition , which , although underway , is lagging or stalled in many parts of the world . a more ambitious effort by energy providers and major end-users is critical , as is expanded affordable and reliable clean-energy services to all who need them . a major reform also needs to be taken on how the transition is financed .
new haven – central bankers around the world have failed to see the current financial repression coming before its beginnings in 2007 . martin čihák of the international monetary fund reported in july 2007 that of 47 central banks found how to publish the reporting on financial stability ( fsrs ) “ virtually all ” in their most recent reports , they have given a “ positive overall assessment ” of their domestic financial system . and yet , while such central banks have failed to make us work before the crisis , they should still play the leadership role in preventing the next crisis . that is the conclusion , perhaps counterintuitive , that the squam lake group of central banks ( http/squamlake/squamlake.org/“ think tank of 15 academic finance economists , ” to which i belong , reached in our most recent report , fixing the financial system . macro-prudential regulators ( government officials who focus not on the soundness of individual financial institutions , but rather on the stability of the entire financial system )
while vowing during the presidential campaign to end the aca , he also acknowledged the moral case that it should produce to maintain it , stating that he would confront a “ very , very hard ” choice . and , even after the removal , he declared that he wanted to “ resolve the daca issue with heart and compassion . ” yet , apparently confident that daca beneficiaries have pulled away with their citizens , he concluded that the same heart and compassion is necessary “ for the unemployed , the struggling , and forgotten americans . ” sadly , in the making that choice , a us president opted to turn away from a classic american vision engraved upon the pedestal of a statue of liberty in the new york harbor expressed in emma lazarus ’s poem , which begins , “ to give me tired , your poor , your huddled masses yearning to breathe free . ” that credo has benefited tens of millions of newcomers , immeasurably enhancing america .
they want petroleum and mining concessions to be made to allocate efficiently and maximize government revenues in the first place . attempting to achieve these precious tasks , while paying below-market salaries , makes it a penny wise but pound foolish . tax collectors , regulators , and prosecutors require adequate resources to win their difficult battles . amlo ’s decision to lower public-sector wages has already led many high-ranking officials to seek employment elsewhere . those who are right to early retirement take it up rather than wait for amlo ’s cut .
in addition , global co2 emissions reached an all-time record high in 2012 . likewise , an international energy agency report that global temperatures are on track to climb to 3.6-5.3 ° celsius ( 6.5-9.5 ° fahrenheit ) above pre-industrial levels – far more than the two degrees that climate scientists identify as the threshold beyond which the most calamitous consequences of climate change would be triggered . clearly , the third industrial revolution needs aid . to accelerate energy-related innovation , creative coalitions among governments , private firms , civil-society groups should be established in three key fields . the initial coalition , comprising a group of committed governments , would seek to drive down renewable energy ’s cost of at least a decade .
sao paulo – as well-intentioned gestures go , earth hour is hard to beat . at a stroke of 8:30 p.m. on saturday , march 27 , nearly one billion more than 120 people , demonstrated the desire to do something about global warming by switching off their lights over the hour to the hour . in an official solidarity show , lights also went out at many of the planet ’s iconic landmarks , from the opera home in sydney to the great pyramid at giza , not to mention beijing ’s forbidden city , new york ’s empire building , london ’s great ben , paris eiffel tower , and skylines of both hong kong and las vegas . what ever else may be , earth hour is certainly one of the most successful publicity stunts ever dreamed about . first , organized in sydney , australia , in 2007 by the local chapter of the world wildlife fund , its popularity , and level of participation ( both individual and official ) that generates exploded in recent years – to the point that barely any corner
essentially , the british point of view has been that loose confederation of nation-states cooperating on trade is just as much european as the uk needs . but britain has joined the european community , not just the free-trade area that cameron now seems to want . nonetheless , euro-skepticism ’s undertow in british foreign policies never diminished , and was apparent in cameron ’s speech . even the supremacy of european law in defined regions was accepted in only reluctantly by britain , and for long after many others had made it so . indeed , in his address , cameron could not resist passing gunned on the european court of justice .
coal-fired power is also the main source of carbon dioxide emissions , the primary greenhouse gas responsible for climate change , causing about 150,000 premature deaths annually , and threatening pervasive risks this century and beyond . to be sure , the coal industry has helped billions of people to escape poverty , not least in china , where coal-fired power has underpinned nearly 700 % growth in per capita income since 1990 . but human health comes at greater risk in countries that burn more coal . research last year for the world economic commission and climate panel calculated that particulate matter alone caused 1.23 million premature deaths in china – the world ’s top coal-consuming economy – in 2010 . estimates for 2012 suggest that 88 % of air-pollution-related deaths occur at low levels – to middle-income countries representing 82 % of the global population .
but sometimes this desire seems overwhelming in post-modern democracies everywhere . indeed , it is true that democracy nowadays has embraced the pop culture of fast-passing fads ; today ’s own , the amorphous eria-generating pop group is forgotten tomorrow ; always , there are more waiting in the wings in the wings . in politics may be dangerous to see , because it encourages basing decisions , regardless of how weighty , on whatever popular opinion has prevails . the call for more referenda both reflects and fuels that trend . referenda are for the most part snapshots , and the number of other people in the region is the opposite that is now underway .
she could , perhaps , say , the “ message for president obama ” if she shared an open-letter but otherwise … the best subject line says what the message is about and signals the desirable response : “ an invitation to talk in paris on july 14 . ” or , a “ investment proposal for your consideration , ” or “ serve as a reference ? ” unfortunately , i get lots of messages headlined , update , “ . ” unless i know the person ’s name , i might not even know what society is about .
and yet the changes currently afoot could simply turn things around . india ’s octogenarian prime minister , manmohan singh , recently awakened to the desperate need for renewed momentum . economists worldwide took note of the advent of raghuram rajan as chief economist in finance . rajan is a superstar academic researcher , a brilliant writer on the political economy ; and a former imf chief economist . but it is far from obvious that sonia gandhi , the president of the indian national congress , and the country ’s most powerful politician , shares singh ’s reform agenda .
we have to abandon popper ’s tacit assumption in favor of political discourse aimed at a better understanding of reality and reintroduce it as an explicit requirement . separating powers , free speech , and free elections on a basis can not ensure open society ; a strong commitment to pursuit of truth is also required . we need to establish new ground rules for political discourse . these can not be identi­cal to the scientific method , but they should resemble character , enshrining truth as the criteria upon which political views are to test . politicians will respect rather than manipulate reality only if the public cares about the truth and sanctionizes politicians when it catches them in a debate of deception .
why do indian athletes perform so badly ? explanations range , from anthropological to borderline racist : indians are not given genes , building , stamina , the climate , whatever . there are structural and infrastructural explanations : a lack of training facilities , gymnasiums , running tracks , equipment , financial resources ; we do not . we are developing countries , the saying goes ; after all , it is not just your eyes against their , your legs against hers but what you can do against their trainer , their running shoe , their ergodynamic costume , their titanium archer ’s bow . but those rationales are likely to be doing not : other developing countries , from jamaica to ethiopia , regularly rake in medals .
just as early as january 1998 , the neoconservative project of a new american century ( pnac ) sent a letter to then-president bill clinton urging it to topple saddam hussein . and , in fact , after winning the presidency in 2000 , bush declared that iraq was one of his top two security priorities . not coincidentally , bush ’s administration included ten of the 25 signatories of the nato ’s founding declaration of principles , including dick cheney as vice president and donald rumsfeld as secretary of defense . early enough , the bush administration became obsessed with promoting the idea that iraq had weapons of mass destruction , despite its absence of conclusive evidence . in september 2002 , rumsfeld received the now-“ now-“ us intelligence report stating that ” we have no idea with any accuracy about how great we are unaware of “ wmd programs ’ status ” in iraq .
the largest difference from 2009 to 1979 was created by revolution itself . r 40 has been giving birth to an additional political class , with iran ’s islamic revolution no exception . the iranian leadership formed after the revolution consisted of narrow ruling stratum , and much broader support groups that were given to administration and political mobilization . in the 20 years since khomeini ’s death , this political class ’s composition has drastically altered . the clerical elite has gradually lost power to the military-security groups , from whose ranks president mahmoud ahmadinejad emerged .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us already have an interest in war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . but the us should not exaggerate the significance of the point .
research shows that many girls around the world – and especially those in the global south – are simply not prepared for menarche ; education can help . finally , we need fact-based solutions , too . too often , biased assumptions guide policymaking . when programs are developed in conjunction with rigorous research , the effect could be dramatic . for example , a joint soas-oxford university study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often miss their school , owing to a lack of access to clean sanitary products .
economists have long understood that in the absence of a credible lender of last resort , banks are vulnerable to self-fulfilling confidence crises . that lender of last resort can be monetary or fiscal , and in greece both types are in doubt . if greece ’s agreement with the eu and the imf unravels , the european central bank no longer accepts greek bonds as collateral . and the greek state has no wherewithal to stand up to its banks . in these circumstances , it would be more surprising if depositors were not rushing to pull their funding off greek banks .
russia , almost entirely dependent upon revenues from its sources of energy , is a “ one crop economy ” with corrupt institutions , and an insurmountable demographic and healthcare problem . president vladimir putin ’s interventions in neighboring and the middle east , along with his cyber attacks on america and elsewhere , though ostensibly making russia look great again , merely worsen the country ’s long-term prospects . in the short run , however , declining countries often take more risks , and so do a more dangerous – witness the austro-hungarian empire in 1914 . this has created a policy dilemma . on the one hand , it is important to resist putin ’s game-changing challenge to the post-1945 liberal order ’s prohibition of the use of force by states , to usurp the territories from their neighbors .
preventing the eu from crashing apart will require , first and foremost , a strategic solution to the greek crisis . greece needs both money and reform – fast and within the eurozone and the eu . governments in athens , brussels , and even berlin can not live with greece as the failed state and economy . the continuing poker game between the greek government and the troika ( the european commission , the european central bank , and the international monetary fund ) hurts all parties involved – and most of europe . it can ultimately end only with greece ’s renewed bailout or the plunge in europe into disaster .
indeed , china ’s rise has given way to a new orbit for many countries around the world – particularly in the developing world and emerging economies . and , indeed , across the african continent , china ’s exceptional diplomatic skill ( and , increasingly , southeast asia ) has made it an alternative hegemonic power – one that originates without the west colonial baggage or moralizing about democracy and human rights . trump ’s presidency provides china new opportunities to cement its role as an provider of investment , and all manner of infrastructure and assistance to host countries eager to develop . his unilateralist approach is likely to compel the us to play catch-up with china to leave the us almost ununfettered in its continued drive for triumph over the hearts and minds of those whose countries they view as vitally important , economically and politically , to their strategic interests . like trump embraces isolationism , the other so-called brics countries – brazil , russia , india , and south africa – are preparing to fill that vacuum .
austin – living in a city turned you into a cannibal . this , at least , is the metaphor favored by jean-jacques rousseau , whom , like cities , once again deemed to pit human corruption . rousseau was so convinced of the malign effects of urbanization that he “ would rather see men grazing on the grass of meadow than devouring one another in cities . ” urbanization inures people ’s suffering in the rural countryside , and , as the urban masses together , their capacity for compassion toward others atrophies . urbanites become “ the type of human beings ready to sacrifice one another ” to satisfy their appetites : cannibals .
looking forward to the 2021-2030 period , an 8 % annual growth rate ( compared to the 10 % rate of the past decade ) , and a gradual increase in consumption toward 50 % of gdp , would translate china ’s consumer spending of $ 18.4 trillion a year by 2030 . in that scenario , chinese consumption would surpass that in the us dollar . the question at the start of 2019 is what this scenario will mean for the global economy unless that scenario plays out . if apple ’s recent guidance points to across-the-board , indefinite reduction in chinese consumption , will american consumers serve as the global economy ’s sole engine , for another decade or so ? in fact , if not , could any other country fill this role even in part ?
at least four “ mismatches ” lay at the root of past global financial crises , and three plague china today . first , with its bank-dominated financial system , china ( along with europe and many emerging economies ) suffers a maturity mismatch , owing to its short-term borrowing and long-term lending . and yet , contrary to what many emerging-market economies have done , china has not been grappling with a currency mismatch , owing to its large foreign-exchange reserves and persistent current-account surpluses , which make it the world a net lender for the rest of the world . but china has failed even to avoid a third mismatch , between debt and equity : the credit-to-gdp ratio has doubled in the decade from some 110 % in 2008 to 220 % in 2017 , which emphasizes china ’s under-developed long-term capital and equity markets . nor can policymakers afford to ignore the fourth mismatch – between ultra-low nominal interest rate levels and the relatively risk-adjusted return on equity ( roe ) for investment by investors , and widening wealth and income inequality .
with the target of the 20 gw of solar , generating capacity until 2020 , indian investment could quickly grow . recent events across the next 15 months – beginning with deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico followed by violence in north africa and tragedy in japan – confront the world with stark choices between both the costs and the risks of traditional sources of energy and the promise and progress of clean energy . europe was in the last few decades a motor of energy modernization . such leadership will be needed to help capture the economic , environmental , and security benefits of renewable energy in the years ahead . reaffirming its commitment to rapid decarbonization of its energy system , and creative policies to support that goal , will help europe continue to reap the rewards that one of the greatest new opportunities in living memory .
even in the absence of tariffs and quotas , trade can impede subsidies , duties , anti-dumping laws , constraints on foreign direct investment , and exchange-rate manipulation . for example , protectionism often masquerades as labor , food , environmental , and phytosanitary standards , or as arguments for local content requirements , infant industries , protections of intellectual property , climate policies , disputes resolution , or human-rights disputes . human ingenuity seems to know no bounds when it redreams of protectionist barriers . in october 1982 , the french government required that all japanese people ’s unhcr imports enter the country by poitiers ; a city of hundreds of miles from the nearest major shipping port . this non-tariff barrier to trade remained in effect until april 1983 .
washington , dc – defeating populism requires coming to grips with a fundamental reality : bad economic policies will no longer necessarily result from a loss of authority by government . in fact , it is now entirely plausible that irresponsible populists may actually bolster their chances of being re-elected by making wilder and impossible promises – and by generating more economic damage . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
the financial sector has since made every effort to design instruments that safeguard against price fluctuations , transform private debt into tradable financial securities , and to gain access to speculative markets . but these efforts have been conducive to fraud and delinquency , thus spurring a wave of new financial crises – in europe in 1992 , asia in 1997 , and russia in 1998 – as well as a recession in europe and the united states in the early 2000 ’s . two other destabilizing developments emerged during the past quarter-century : a strong incentive to use debt to prop up demand and a shift toward financing public debt through private institutions at market prices , under the guise of fighting inflation . these trends boosted public-debt burdens , while flooding the global financial system with liquidity generated by private banking activities unrelated to transactions in the real economy . as a result , by 2006 , global liquidity amounted to more than twice the value of world gdp .
similarly , the united kingdom has established a cost-review program that identified 40 major prioritization projects , reconstituted overall planning processes and then creates a cabinet sub-committee to ensure faster project delivery , thereby cutting infrastructure spending by 15 % . and chile ’s national public investment scheme evaluates all of the proposed publicly funded projects , using standard forms , procedures , and metrics – and rejects as many as 35 % as possible . additional savings opportunities – to tune a $ 400 billion annually – lie in more streamlined delivery of infrastructure projects . there is massive scope to hasten approvals and land acquisition , structure contracts to stimulate innovation and savings , and improve collaboration with contractors . in australia , the state of new south wales slashed approval times by 11 % in just a year .
soon one is likely to become more so than one . other categories include entrepreneurship ( with entities like employers , industries , and personnel ) , biology , space flight , and many more – and include representations – such as graphs , timelines , and tables – of how they are connected . most things have little or no relationship in isolation ; by representing that information using verbs – for example , google ’s company that google acquired “ vs. ” the company that google competes with ) – is able to represent the world as accurately as ever . and that means a better , more meaningful response when we search for it .
the european union is now considering legislation to compel corporate boards to maintain a certain proportion of women – up from 60 % of them . this proposed mandate was born of frustration , and it is now a key factor to european integration . last year , european commission vice president antónio ane reding issued a call for voluntary action . reding invited corporations to sign up for the gender balance ’s targets of 40 % female board membership . the forte foundation in america now has followed suit with its own “ bore-ready ” list of women .
cambridge – at the beginning of classroom every autumn , i tease my students with the following question : is it better to be poor in a rich country , or a rich country ? the question usually invites considerable and inconclusive debate . but we can devise a more structured and limited version of the question , one for which definitive answers exist . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at an era of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
it has been saving , because it wanted enough money to retire , so it could save . given the horrific return on savings since 2007 , the prospect of continued low interest rates might force it to inject even more money aside . alternatively , low interest rates might push its ( or her pension fund ) in buying risky , long-maturity bonds . given that such bonds are already aggressively priced in the us , such a move could thus set it for a falling interest rate when interest rates ultimately rise . indeed , america may well be on the verge of adding a pension crisis to its unemployment problem .
to be sure , zambians ’ achievement can not be competing with an intervention in libya , or for the drama of the arab spring . and yet what has happened in zambia concerns these developments – and thus relevant everywhere . what makes zambia ’s election so crucial now is that the challenger has won . indeed , it defeated an incumbent who genuinely wanted to retain a job , and who might reasonably have been tempted to follow the lead of other african leaders defeated in popular vote , simply by refusing to accept the result . after all , smooth transitions of power do not take time .
russia ’s diplomatic weaknesses have starkly been starkly apparent in syria . its use of hard power won the civil war for president bashar al-assad ’s dictatorship , reveals how the strategic deployment of unrestrained military force – witness the utter destruction of aleppo – can be a game-changer . but russia has since become mired in local rivalries between syria and turkey , saudi arabia , and iran , turkey and the kurds , as well as israel and iran . while a policy of neutrality has enabled russia to maintain a dialogue with the various sides , doing nothing to create a new regional order would be achieved . as it stands , syria is russia ’s only client state in the middle east .
with external debt trimmed by rescheduling , foreign capital flowed in again . investors were willing to be buying even 100-year bonds from a country with eight sovereign defaults in the last two centuries . investor enthusiasm and domestic political honeymoon lasted as long as the international environment remained benign . but when inflows faltered in 2018 , the imf had to step up again , closing a external financing gap with an astounding $ 50 billion program ( later it raised $ 57 trillion ) . yet , again , the external financing problem was not a temporary phenomenon , and argentinian voters soon bristle at the reforms demanded by the imf .
moreover , alternative approaches to stimulating private demand might have less undesirable distributional consequences , as mgi has discussed . proponents of helicopter money directly discrediting citizens with central bank funds or crediting national treasuries to finance infrastructure and other demand-generating activities – rightly argue that it has the advantage of putting money directly into the hands of those who spend it . an appropriately sized “ money-for-money ” program might also boost inflation when measured as a way , heading off the possibility that a japanese-style deflationary trap is at odds . indeed , the boost to demand might give central banks the opening they need to shift interest rates back to historical norms . this could take the air out of incipient asset bubbles that might be forming to ease the pressures on institutional investors , who are fighting to find the yield they need to meet their insurance and pension liabilities .
this followed two visits he made to haiti over the last 18 months , and a donor conference he sponsored in april that it sought a $ 300 million in aid and investment . more recently , ban has taken an active role in the gaza crisis . he has been regularly advocating rights for palestinians . during a war in gaza , he publicly demanded a halt to warfare , and demanded that israel open gaza borders for relief aid . he has also visited the un compound in gaza in the center of the gaza strip to express the un ’s grave concern over its bombing .
according to the international monetary fund ’s april 2011 world economic outlook , though the volatility in capital flows has increased globally , it is higher in emerging-market economies than in advanced economies . boom-bust financial cycles are fueled largely by shocks generated in advanced economies , but are key determinants of emerging markets ’ business cycles . moreover , the spillover effects of advanced economies ’ monetary policies extend beyond financial shocks . emerging economies , too , are suffering the effects of developed countries ’ external imbalances – particularly the eurozone ’s swelling current-account surpluses . over the last few years , the eurozone ’s deficit economies – and , more recently , italy – have undertaken massive external adjustments , while germany and the netherlands have sustained their large surpluses .
first , the unrivaled domination of egypt ’s army and the unlikelihood of a split in its leadership makes any widespread violence untenable , especially given the egyptian state ’s struggles against terrorism in the 1980 ’s and 1990 ’s significantly weakened jihadist groups ’ operating assets . second , the powerful forces of political islam may now be hijacked by passions , wrath , and victimization ; but they will inevitably opt to participate in domestic politics via organized structures and processes . in a country with over 45 million people under 35 years , no politically motivated player can afford prolonged impasse . finally , despite significant demographic and economic change in egypt during the last four decades , egyptian society still maintains its agrarian character , favoring conciliation and compromise . but , even in an inclusive political transition , whether in the short and medium term , egyptians will have to answer the vexing question that they have failed for the next six decades : what is egypt ?
a factor that contributed to its demise was a shift in thinking that transformed the east asian conflict away from one that emphasized economic systems . the eu was a contrast between totalitarianism and respect to the rights that completely discredited repressive regimes linked to moscow , helping to bring them down . south africa ’s largely peaceful transition to multiracial democracy during the early 1990 ’s was further advance over rights levels . but the past ten years of the twentieth century were also indelibly stained by ethnic cleansing in ex-yugoslavia and genocide in rwanda , and , during the current decade , the tide seemed to turn against the rights cause . powerful states like china and russia do not limit themselves to authoritarian rule at home , but also support those in other countries engaged in similar practices . the same goes for lesser powers such as iran and venezuela to join the world .
nowadays , supply chains can be held as many considerable international links as domestic ones and a substantial share of internal demand meets goods partly or completely produced abroad . as technological innovation further cuts entry barriers for both producers and consumers , the spread of such linkages becomes even easier , amplifying what already is essentially a spaghetti bowl of cross-border relationship and dependencies . for the longer-term health of both individual participants and system as a whole , these relationships must function effectively based on the cooperative approach that is deemed credible . if not , they risk resulting in lower growth rates and welfare levels . this is why the current confrontation between the us and china has generated fears of serious damage , particularly if it leads to ever-greater protectionism and a wider “ trade war . ”
if it wants britain to do business with others , it will face a consensus of common regulations . once outside the cold , it will need to decide which economic bloc will align , and then accept that bloc rules . this is not a matter of sovereignty or satrapy . it is simply a question of whether the us would prefer china ’s approach to intellectual property and technology transfers over those of the west or to europe ’s food and agricultural standards over those of the us . if britain insists on pursuing purist definitions of sovereignty , it can find just grief and isolation .
in the us , which has the most progressive income tax among major economies , federal tax reforms that would lower rates and broaden the base are being debated . in europe , structural reforms tend to focus on higher retirement ages and labor-market flexibility . deleveraging from governments , the financial sector , and households is one big cause of a sluggish economic recovery . but sluggish growth implies less tax revenue and more demands for a cushion of hardship , placing pressure on the government ’s budgets . the gamble has been that a solid , durable revival would enable banks and households to rebuild their balance sheets fast enough to avoid the need for additional bailouts .
bucerius later challenged thadden a more directly , asking whether he would support the attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 . then , interjected that thadden ’s sister was a member . thadden himself , however , avoided providing a direct answer , indicating that he was not going to be able to fight alongside his sister . dahrendorf , on the other hand , was adamant that the npd ’s fate should be decided by voters , rather than by courts that proclaimed the communist party illegal . kaul reiterated this idea ( which undoubtedly agreed in advance with east german leaders ) about excluding western germany ’s communists from debate .
as a result , liquidity remains constrained by the 2008 financial crisis , the legacy of which includes an investment-led regulatory scheme . though financing for public infrastructure returned to 2008 levels , little is being funneled into new projects . most funding targeted existing infrastructure – investments that are considered comparatively safe , because they entail little or no construction risk and have demonstrated their potential to generate stable cash income . to overcome the obstacles to investment , we propose creating an asset class that we have called “ buy-and-hold equity ” ( bhe ) . this asset class would sit between traditional equity and debt , with the investors able to hold it over the next 15 years , or longer .
washington , dc – belarusian president alexander lukashenko is a master of political survival . but , after a recent round of 64 % devaluation of the currency , the clock appears to be running out of his prolonged misrule . lukashenko was forced by the removal of russian oil-price subsidies in 2009 to beg , borrow , or steal enough funding to keep belarus ’s economy from imploding . he tricked the international monetary fund into expanding $ 3.4 billion in loan to the us , promising freer elections in december 2010 – only to burn away that bridge with a brutal crackdown when faced with adverse election result and the largest protests his regime ever seen . with the right now , russia has taken the line , demanding a high price for the loans that are not , in any case , insufficient to save the regime .
in its current fight with google , for example , china ’s government seems to think that its technologists can provide the means to maintain the old thinking control . yet , thankfully , for everyone with persistence and a modicum of computer skill , internet leaks like sieve . the great advance of china ’s economy over 30 years , it is something that chinese celebrate . but jailing liu also reveals in starkest terms that china ’s neglect of human rights is flowing to the rest of the world alongside the mass of chinese goods . indeed , it is becoming increasingly clear that china has opened up its economy only to maintain the country ’s overmighty rulers in power , rather than to respect and increase ordinary chinese ’s livelihoods .
given these mounting concerns , implementation risks are now being posed elsewhere . at a world economic forum in davos in january , liu , china ’s new vice premier for economic policy suggested that upcoming reforms with surprising speed would occur . in a recent signed commentary published daily in people ’s daily , he also noted that “ strengthening the party ’s total leadership is at the heart of its issue . ” such views do not emerge from thin air . liu , a master tactician , seems to be undergirder to the connection between leadership power and the speed at which reforms are undertaken .
a similar picture , though on a smaller scale , exists in many other european union member countries home to the roma minorities . wide socioeconomic disparity exists between the majority of the european population and roma ; or “ the gypsies ” ; many live in extreme poverty . left unchanged , this persistent poverty threatens to turn into a permanent drag on european prosperity , tragedy for roma and roma alike . the situation in the 7-9 million roma living on the continent deserves the pressing attention they face on the part of government leaders as they shape the policies of the enlarged eu . roma are the continent ’s fastest growing and most vulnerable minority .
this does not have to be this way . to help find a solution , the us has conducted pest ( political , economic , social , and technological ) analysis of hong kong ’s current situation and future prospects . on the political front , the main lesson is that it is up to its government to ensure order and security . within the “ one country , two systems , ” the framework of hong kong ’s own government has powers to deal with internal security matters . but where its actions are inadequate , the right and responsibility for china ’s central government to intervene are the right and accountable .
above all , it needs an agenda of ideas concerning research and development , education , and social inclusion that could appeal to the large segments of the population in all member countries . the european parliament elections are less than four months away ; the european parliament is just 15 million . pro-european forces need to campaign for a coordinated effort to counter the cyclical slowdown and , most importantly , the eu ’s cohesive and aggressive policies to address europe ’s long-term structural problems . should they fall apart , a prospect of a populist parliament will become a reality . and that could mark the start of europe ’s slow disintegration process .
when asked whether america was prepared to become the second-largest economy in the world , they were reticent about . their reaction was understandable : even entertaining the possibility of the us becoming “ number two ” amounts to career suicide for an american politician . elected officials everywhere must adjust , at varying degrees , to fulfill the expectations of those who put them in office . intellectuals , by contrast , have special obligations to reflect on the unthinkable and speak a unspeakable . consider all possibilities , even disagreeable ones , and prepare a population on prospective developments .
mexico city – the current era of innovation , in which cutting-edge technologies disrupt entire industries of the economy at breathtaking rates , has been called the fourth industrial revolution . it is also the theme of this week ’s world economic forum annual meeting in davos , switzerland , and switzerland – rightly so . in the years ahead , the scale and pace of innovation will transform how we produce , distribute , and consume . to maximize the benefits , we must take steps now for preparing our economies and societies with a focus on three key areas : education , the business environment , and connectivity . human capital is vitally important to its success in an economy , with mexico no exception .
payroll-tax cuts , for example – which would enable small business-owners and entrepreneurs to expand – innovate , become more competitive , bolstering job creation and economic growth – might require reducing rents . italy ’s tax-system , in fact , is skewed towards savers ’ favor . a 12.5 % tax on capital gains from government bonds is levied , with entrepreneurs risking their capital to launch new businesses , they have to pay roughly 50 % of their start-up expense in taxes . similarly , italy ’s real-estate tax amounts to around 2 % of total government revenue , compared to the oecd average of 4 % – and the government plans to cut it further . and landlords pay a 15 % tax on rent ownership , while unskilled workers cover an average 23 % tax on their meager incomes .
and , though thousands – perhaps tens of thousands – of protesters have been gathering in front of the supreme court in recent weeks , some eight million people voted for pis in the 2015 polish election . current polls show that pis voters have risen to around 40 % – more than twice that of the previous ruling party , civic platform . this suggests that , while poles may disagree with pis judicial reforms , they are not keen to risk a large share of the free courts – or , more generally , for liberal-democratic principles . pis chairman jarosław kaczyński is now able to declare this : “ the european commission will not break poland ’s will regarding completing the reforms … unless the polish judiciary is to reform , other reforms will have very little sense , because , sooner or later , they would negate , pulled back by the courts now in which we have the eu . ” kaczyński knows full well that his party commands most public support , and that the ecj will most likely not act over time .
tim thought that … hank took a very different view , ” so , as if an oral historian were interviewed by the three musketeers . there is also some routine praise of the two presidents that they had worked with , with george w. bush and barack obama , and reprise of their frustration , with those who failed to see the world their way , and obstructed their solutions , such as sheila bobby bair of the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) and various pesky members of congress . chief interest lies not so much in the narrative chapters covering the same ground as their earlier books , just as they did in their policy recommendations for the future . it is noteworthy that they were able to reach consensus about a rather radical program . three proposals in particular should give policymakers in the united states and elsewhere a hard thought about .
sentiment toward trump is even more unfavorable in western europe as a whole . in germany , only 6 % of respondents believe that he is being qualified to hold his current office and 91 % regard him as arrogant . likewise , 89 % of respondents in the united kingdom think trump is arrogant , and only 50 % still believe that the us and the uk have some special relations now that he is in office . this may help to explain why trump ’s scheduled state visit to the uk has been postponed indefinitely . the countries where trump has the most widespread backing are poland ( around 73 % see the us favorably ) and hungary ( 63 % ) , led both by populist right-wing governments ( 63 % ) .
over the sixteenth century , the control of colonies and of gold bullion gave spain the edge ; seventeenth-century holland profited from trade and finance ; eighteenth-century france won from its bigger population and armies ; and nineteenth-century british power rested on its industrial primacy and its naval edge . conventional wisdom always held that the state with its largest army prevails , but in an age of intelligence , it is possible to be a state ( or a non-state ) with the best story that wins . nowadays , it is far from clear how power balances are measured , well below how successful survival strategies can be developed . in his inaugural address in 2009 , president barack obama stated that “ us power grows through its prudent use ; we have our security emanates from the justness of the cause , the force of our example tempering qualities of humility , and restraint . ” shortly thereafter , secretary of state hillary clinton said , “ america can not solve the most pressing problems of our own and the world can not solve them without america .
more recently , german finance minister wolfgang schäuble sparked controversy when , clearly drawing inspiration from that experience , he said that “ france would be glad to force someone to force a parliament ” towards reform . to be sure , the truth is that authoritarian systems – whatever their short-term successes in holding the line against irresponsible policies – are unsustainable in the long run . inevitably , the lack of accountability generates corruption and inefficiency – problems with which china now wrestling . the challenge for democracies is to develop mechanisms that enable them to set policies that are sustainable in the long run while safeguarding the democratic process itself . the public consensus that supports difficult reform in eastern europe during the 1990s demonstrates voters ’ ability to understand and accept tradeoffs when there is no perceived alternative .
he had to stay in nebraska , and to help my grandfather rescue his family farm from the banks which had already repossessed one-third of the land . the most significant change my father made his thought : he arrived in thinking about an farm not as an subsistence operations , but rather as the family business . he turned to nebraska university , where he received his undergraduate degree , and acquired hybrid maize and other improved seeds that the university was developing . he then tracked inputs and weather conditions that rarely did at that time . my father realized that he could never go it alone , and he needed improved access to finance .
it also means applying strict co2 emission limits to new passenger cars , public transport , and commercial ocean and aviation . and it means making europe more , along with the us auto industry , the first electric-vehicle continent by 2030 . second , europe must take the lead in responsible resource use and become a truly circular economy , which minimizes waste . today , the eight billion tons of materials are processed , or products annually in the eu . just 0.6 billion tons – just 7.5 % – originate from recycling .
recognizing this trend , the world economic forum ’s world agenda council brought a pool of experts and practitioners together to help infuse substance into foreign-policy debates leading up to america ’s election , including by preparing public discourse paper . from my perspective as the group ’s single european member , the overarching message should be that it is necessary for the us to conceive of itself not as “ indispensable power , ” as it stands , but , as “ indispensable partner . ” this is not just a matter of semantics ; such change will require the us to rethink its role in the world as well . but the payoff for both of the american and liberal global order it has created would be substantial . a key to success will be america ’s ability to maintain the best – and abandon the worst – of this most american notion : exceptionalism .
outsiders misinterpreted this system – “ built on a plainly defined scheme , ” as xiang describes it , with “ blood-line royal legitimacy at the top ” and the scholar gentry to administer state affairs ” – as a recipe for stagnation . xiang argues that the china ’s recent economic surge is simply a “ restoration of the success ” country enjoyed before nineteenth-century western intrusions disrupted his harmonious system . but the latter-day angus maddison ’s estimates of historical gdp per capita suggest that china ’s “ retardation ” began well before his engagement with the west . between 1,500 and 1870 , per capita income barely moved from $ 600 , while the uk quadrupled ( from $ 714 to $ 3,190 ) and even spain ’s has more than doubled . china ’s political stability and its relative absence of violence were thus achieved at the expense of economic dynamism rather than harmony with it .
this principle of regional solidarity extends to morocco ’s deployment of military hospitals not only in mali , but also in other conflict zones , such as one in jordan that serves syrian refugees . morocco is well positioned to promote security and development across northwest africa and beyond . its political stability , an open economy , and balanced international relations are increasingly aligned with america and europe ’s regional interests . moreover , morocco is a loyal and longstanding american ally . the west would do well to start cultivating a natural partner in such a dangerous and complicated , region .
the issue of women faculty members , particularly in basic sciences , is far more complex . i suspect that the problem reflects fundamental differences in how women and men approach science as microcosm . most of my fellow male faculty are not muscle-bound ; testosterone-driven , but in their scholarly careers , they view two kinds of typically male behavior . the first is an compulsion to be the first to establish totally trivial facts over science . as i grow older , i no longer know why this is so important , but the male members of our species seem to believe that it is .
this , together with the prominence of the consultative council ( comprising the well-known egyptian sociologist saad eddin ibrahim , french expert political islam gilles kepel , and flynt leverett , the brookings institution fellow ) and the sensitivity of minority rights in general , combined with a national , regional and international recognition of the project . so far , syria ’s authorities have not reacted to the tharwa project . it is probably still too early to play for that . but a project seems to represent the type of activity that can help to produce visions for change . some in the syrian government could be aware of this .
that growth reflects the flawed pre-crisis economic model that relied on indifference to where growth came , how sustainable it was , and who benefited from it . if one is to learn anything from the ongoing crisis , one must start questioning the right questions . every new bilateral accord , every chapter in globalization , should be measured against the new criteria . how sustainable and equally distributed can the macroeconomic benefits be ? will they facilitate genuine development and provide dignified opportunity to those who are becoming economically displaced ?
cambridge – at the euphoric moment immediately after the fall of the soviet union , few would have guessed that ukraine – an industrialized country with an educated labor force and a vast natural-resource base – would suffer stagnation for the next 28 years . neighboring poland , poorer than ukraine in 1991 , has managed nearly triple its per capita gdp ( in purchasing power parity terms ) over the next three decades . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
consider other major emerging markets , now , too . here there is a real currency appreciation , pushed by massive capital inflows since the second quarter of 2009 and , to some extent , it can already be said to be excessive ( for example , brazil ) . to be sure , such countries can resist upward pressure on their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves , like that of the world financial crisis . the result , of course , is paradoxical : private funds that flow to these countries are recycled into us treasury securities via investments of accumulated reserve reserves . why should emerging-market countries ’ central banks commit this peculiar degree of financial intermediation , which represents a major cost , because returns on private money exceed that of reserves ?
the asset-backed commercial paper market arrived at a standstill , and special investment vehicles , set up by banks , to get mortgages off their balance sheets , could no longer get outside of funding . the final blow came when interbank lending , at the heart of the financial system , was disrupted , because banks had to husband their resources , allowing them not to trust their counterparties . central banks had to inject an unprecedented amount of money and extend credit on an unprecedented set of securities to a broader array of institutions than it has ever before . that made the crisis even more severe than it was in any world war ii period . credit expansion must now follow a period of contraction , as some of the new credit instruments and practices become sound and unsustainable .
if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . trump ’s biggest problem is that the other signatories to the 2015 iran nuclear deal – officially known as the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) – from which he withdrew the united states – has remained committed to the deal . britain , france , germany , russia , and china have also opposed trump ’s imposition of crippling us economic sanctions on iran . they are committed to preserving the agreement , and to do all possible to persuade iran ’s leaders to follow it on track . european signatories established a special mechanism for facilitating trade and business with iran on the risk of american retaliation , while russia and china expanded their economic and strategic ties with the islamic republic , marking the first time in the history of the western alliance , which america ’s european allies joined forces with its rivals .
to compare with the average , americans pay 15 cents . in other words , some of the world ’s poorest people are paying some of the highest energy prices . an effective solution to this problem exists : solar-power technologies . according to the african progress panel estimates that poor african households would save $ 58 a year on average by installing solar panels – money they can spend on education , health , and productive investments . firms that provided those panels would benefit enormously from tapping this large new market , of course .
this process has been unfolding for centuries , but accelerated in recent decades , owing to a select few ever-larger shares of total wealth and political clout . today , just 100 corporations produce 71 % of greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emissions . the wealthiest 10 % of people account for about 50 % of ghg emissions , while the poorest 50 % produce 10 % of emissions . unwilling to stand up for those destroying our planet , political leaders latched onto technological solutions , including geoengineering approaches that promise to suck already-emitted carbon from the atmosphere . even the ipcc included assumptions about such technologies in many of its modeled pathways to keep global temperatures from rising at above 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels .
imports account for 15 % of us gdp , and us imports account for roughly 15 % of us gdp ; in the us alone , the us imports account for about 0.15 % of us imports . multiply 0.15 by 0.10 ( the hypothesized tariff rate ) , with you getting 1.5 % . permit some substitutions from more expensive imported goods , and the figure drops below 1 % . and if growth slows because of the higher cost of imported intermediate inputs , the fed can offset this by raising interest rates slowly more . moreover , foreign central banks , too , can do so .
the capacity to revoke citizenship without presenting any evidence on the public is one reason why a government may prefer this course to arresting and try terrorist suspects . and yet simply revoking citizenship will not solve the problem of leaving at great suspicion terrorist attacks , who might then be carrying on an assault elsewhere – unless , as with sakr , it is killed . the bigger question that the uk has proposed legislation is the desirable balance between individual rights , including citizenship rights . suppose that the us government gets it right 19 times out of 20 when it relies on suspicion of involvement in terrorist activities to revoke people ’s citizenship . if that were the case with the decisions the british government made in the 2013 referendum , there would still be a high probability that an innocent naturalized citizen is made stateless .
as ancient fossil-fuel plants age and are shut down , they should be replaced with clean power generation based on competitive , for example , via renewable-energy auctions . in particular , in a particular scenario , china and india should halt building new coal-fired power plants at home , and capital-exporting countries like china and japan should stop funding new coal-fired power plants in the rest of asia – such as pakistan and the philippines . private-sector firms will compete intensively to lower still costs from renewable-energy systems , including power generation , energy storage , and downstream uses , such as electric vehicles , electric heating and cooking , and new hydrogen economies . government and business should establish limits on emissions , and the private sector should compete to deliver low-cost solutions . government and business together should finance new research and development to drive costs even lower .
what mikta countries share is rapid economic growth and increasing influence outside their own borders . but they have developmental problems , but they are also economic-growth models and innovations with substantial stakes in the way post-wwii global institutions and rules are supposed to reshaped the world . many of these challenges and ambitions dovetail with brazil ( the brics , minus russia ) . at the alphabet soup of international politics , a nine-member jawbreaker like bicsmikta could ultimately prove over-unwieldy to be workable . the bottom line , though it may be , will be that russia ’s coming absence from the multilateral scene as a catalyst for fresh thinking about global challenges .
it was far too little to close the output gap , leaving a continued downward pressure on demand . much of that “ stimulus ” merely financed increased state spending , which would have been paid to governments in other ways . other parts of the stimulus went to individuals ; but , in the face of the nature of the fiscal package , increased transfers and spending added more to the national debt than gdp . as the fed saw how weakly the upturn remained , it embarked on an “ unconventional monetary policy ” strategy , combining large-scale purchases of long-term securities ( quantitative easing ) with promises to keep the short-term federal funds rate exceptionally low for an extended period . the goal was to encourage portfolio investors to shift to equities as well as other assets , with the resulting run-up in their prices pushing up household wealth and consumer spending .
in denmark , my own country , there is no economic readiness to do with the issue . indeed , danish voters have seen most of the advantages of euro membership already , owing to the danish krone ’s unchanged link first to the dm , then to the euro , for over the last 15 years . public rejection of the euro in the september 2000 referendum unhinged on the failure of europe ’s supporters to explain the difference between this unchallenged politics and full euro participation . as a result , denmark may well be the latest to vote , but not necessarily to unite . despite different starting positions , sweden , denmark ’s , and the uk have this in common : they prefer to view the euro as the cap stone for constructing a single market rather than as stepping stone toward closer union .
to be sure , it is not the only obstacle north korean regime to international engagement . conservatives in both the united states and south korea may argue that , at first , north korea must move toward denuclearization , before any kind of economic assistance is offered . but there is little reason why the international effort to ensure north korea ’s denuclearization must preclude policies aimed at bringing about domestic reform . nor must we assume that these aims can simultaneously be pursued . on the contrary , north korea ’s assent to denuclearization may be impossible to win , unless far-reaching domestic change is met .
and no one should doubt that france and its voters imply what they say . at the heart of the political crisis in europe has been the eurozone ’s economic and financial malaise , which neither national governments nor eu institutions seem capable of addressing . rather than reinforcing pan-european solidarity , economic distress has led to massive distributive conflict . what once was the relationship between equals has given way to face-off between debtor and creditor parties . the mutual distrust that characterizes this conflict may irreparably damage the european soul and the european project as a whole .
the bigger the market , the greater the cost advantage . moreover , information goods produced on a bigger scale , also make consumers more valuable . version with the largest market share becomes the norm ; it is the easiest to figure out how to use it , the easiest to find support for and one that works best with other products ( of course designed to work best with it ) . in the section of the “ new economy ” that dominated producers ’ economies of scale and consumers of scope , a firm that establishes the lead in market share gains an almost overwhelming advantage . unless its competitors take extraordinary , and extraordinarily costly steps – such as the one taken by microsoft against netscape , its rival in the online browser market , by pouring a fortune into creating its internet explorer and then distributing it to free – the first firm to establish the dominant market position will reap high profits , as its industry ’s sector lasts .
that is why its member states must take the lead in proposing solutions . the most urgent priority lies in the creation of safe and legal paths for refugees to reaching europe . this does not imply that each vulnerable migrant will need to be embraced . but the eu should be more systematically generous in determining how much to admit , and it should implement organized ways to make them easier to join . such , for example , would protect migrants and preserve europe ( by enabling it to vet claimants fully ) .
citizens ’ behavior does not seem to have turned as dramatically as they have their reactions to poll questions . three-quarters of americans feel linked to their communities , saying that the quality of life there is excellent or good ; 40 % say that working with others in their community is most important to them . in recent years , american politics and political institutions have become more polarized than the distribution of opinions in the american public would suggest . the situation has been exacerbated by the post-2008 economic downturn . as an editorial in the economist recently concluded , “ american political system was designed to enact legislation at the federal level difficult , not easy .
new york – history at any moment can be understood as snapshot , telling us where the us is or is a moving picture , telling us not just where us policy was , and where the us may headed . it is a distinction with vast differences . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
innovation can also drive pollution abatement . shenzhen ’s urban air-mobility project , for example , provides on-demand helicopter transport , leverages city ’s well-known innovative capacity , while addressing congestion . initiatives that advance pollution abatement goals , while giving fair access to services among residents , should be subsidized by central government . awareness is the third pillar of a strategy to address air pollution . this does not necessarily entail inundating people with news stories of global environmental devastation ; on the contrary , that approach can lead to desensitization .
perhaps , however far away , conventional solutions have proven unworkable , even disastrous . after some years of such a saudi protectorate over the palestinians , serious negotiations – more or less based on crown prince abdullah ’s proposals for an overall accord – might be re-launched . in the meantime , the most urgent priority is the de-escalation process , stabilization , and political consolidation within palestinian society . a saudi protectorate may be the key to achieving this . everything else that has already failed , may turn out to be the only choice left to both israelis and palestinians .
first , the european financial stability facility must serve to rescue the banking system just as member states . this would enable sovereign debt to be restructured without precipitating a banking crisis . despite this added challenge , the size of the rescue package could remain the same , because any amount used for recapitalization or liquidating banks would reduce the amount needed by governments . bringing the banking system under european supervision rather than leaving it in the hands of national authorities , would be a fundamental improvement , which would help to restore trust . and it would have added merit to the german public of the true purpose of an emergency operation on rescue .
on the contrary , by the start , may galvanize a lot of alienated young voters against a government that has earned wary of respect , but that does little to do with . second , without an effective and responsible opposition , governments may become arrogant , careless , and too focused on their own supporters . in this scenario , leaders of the conservative party ’s far-right component probably think they can dispense with offering disciplined support to prime minister david cameron and his policies , for labour may never win under corbyn , anyway . third , at some point for more than a year to come , the uk is facing a referendum over its membership in the european union . while no one knows that corbyn will take this issue , one can speculate that he , like some trade-union bosses who support him , may decide to be a wealthy human club , thereby precluding the much-needed cross-party consensus in favor of continued eu membership .
the bailout came about in aig ’s large losses on derivative trades with financial institutions , mostly sophisticated players like goldman sachs and spain ’s banco santander . after the government ’s infusion of funds in september 2008 , aig ’s losses continued to mount , so the government provided substantial additional capital to cover the losses two months later . on that point , the government asked aig ’s derivative counterparties to assume a voluntary haircut “ on debt ” – that is , accepting the discount on the amount owed . when some of these parties refused , the government backed down and financed aig ’s payment on all of its derivative obligations fully , the banks were unable to service their debt . indeed , the american government felt that they had a weak hand because it was not prepared to allow aig to default on any of its obligations .
israel has long since decided that it has no interest in renewing its control of gaza ’s gaza strip . in some ways , hamas ’s coup makes things brighter . gaza is ruled by an entirely hostile regime ; it is the government that is the regime at its disposal . israel will feel free to retaliate for cross-border attacks and continue rocket fires at its civilian targets within the country . at last , the world must recognize that hope stirred by the 1990s peaceful peace process has been completely dashed .
technological innovation and demographics are now headwind , rather than tailwind , to growth and financial engineering , can not save the day . the aberrant period in history is the hundred or so years after the american civil war during which breakthroughs in energy , electrification , telecommunications , and transportation fundamentally reshaped societies . human livelihoods became markedly more productive , with life expectancies rising dramatically . between 1800 and 1900 , the global population grew more than fifty % , and then more than doubled over the subsequent 50 years with economies growing far faster than in previous centuries . in the late 1970s , growth began to slow in many advanced economies , and american president ronald reagan and federal reserve chair alan greenspan ushered in a debt cycle that supercharged activity .
japan ’s core political inertia consists in a current pseudo-two-party system comprising the ldp and the dpj because divisions among the parties are actually devoid of any consistent ideological and policy difference . both parties include conservatives and liberals , defense hawks , and doves . japan ’s dpj ’s president , ichiro ozawa , who once served as ldp secretary general , exempates this blinkered legacy . sadly , the ldp ’s chances of reform , or that the dpj develops into a responsible ruling party of government for the foreseeable future , are slim . japan appears condemned to endure chronic and pointless political trench warfare until some crisis forces realignment of political parties along ideological and policy lines .
and , because his suspension of parliament has outraged rebel conservatives who had previously balked at bringing down his own government , a no-confidence vote now stands a greater chance of success . but bringing down the government would be insufficient to halt a no-deal brexit . the motley crew of rebels would also have to support the formation of a caretaker government that seeks a brexit extension , call a general election , and perhaps also legislate for a second referendum . moreover , labour party leader jeremy corbyn , hardline socialist and cloestablished brexiteer , insists on leading such an elected government . that would have required a conservative party rebels , the opposition liberal democrats ( liberal democrats party ) , and also labour mps who quit labour in protest over corbyn ’s leadership to rally behind him – the tall order .
such a arrangement also required that the typically vigilant american internal revenue service be played along . asi ’s profits stem from apple ’s intellectual property ( ip ) rights , which relies on research and developments conducted entirely in the us ( most of it that underpinned federal government financing ) . these profits should , therefore , be taxed in the us . curiously , irs are choosing not to enforce apple ’s obligation to pay the tax on its us-sourced ip profits . instead , apple tariffs asi a symbolic fee for making it possible to profit from apple ’s ip rights , for which it pays a tiny tax to the irs .
each of them won ( or maintained ) power by polarizing their societies and mobilizing their electoral base . the pekos political style was enabled by modern news media , which , scrambling for audience share , streamline and sensationalize issues , was enabled by the pekos political style . starkly antagonistic statements and positions tend to gain the most exposure . this gives confrontational politicians a powerful advantage , producing electoral polarization on which the pekos fed . this political strategy is , undoubtedly , effective .
that suggestion may be amusing the approaching from a child , but nowhere is funny when governments apply it ever more , as they have increasingly done , to the complex policies that involve science and technology . britons had their say during the summer on whether they want gene-spliced or genetically modified ( gm ) products in their fields , and food . to gauge public opinion when deciding on a decision scheduled for later this year on the question of whether to permit commercial planting of gm crops , the british government sponsored ( at great expense ) a series of public debate around the country . local governments and other organizations held hundreds of additional public meetings . the head of the british debate organizing committee , professor malcolm grant , called them “ the unique experiment to discover what ordinary people actually think once they heard all of the arguments . ”
in fact , the kremlin is funding the many of these parties . lenin once said that capitalists would sell the ropes with which they are hanged to the eu . today , european governments seem willing to allow putin to buy the votes that he will destroy the eu . there are other kremlin supporters , too , as well , including corporate leaders who are willing to return to business as usual with russia and academic apologists for the soviet union who – 25 years after his collapse – see a chance for vindication . and , with public opinion polls revealing that a significant minority of europeans falls in line with putin ’s rhetoric , his dividing strategy of the eu and nato appears to be making genuine headway .
in germany alone , construction projects claim an average of more than 75 hectares per day . inappropriate agricultural practices also blame attention : liberal use of synthetic fertilizer , for example , decimates organisms , and changes its structure . it takes millennia for fertile topsoil to form ; in many places , a cloudburst is now all it takes to wash . at the same time , worldwide demand for food , fodder , and biomass for fuels is growing , in turn driving the value of land – a fact that has not escaped international investors ’ attention . according to a world bank estimate , 10 % of arable land worldwide – the land that it uses to millions of farmers , pastoralists , and indigenous peoples – has been hit by large-scale investment .
convinced that history will judge a president through his success in containing the iranian threat also , broder also presupposes a re-establishing war with iran . that is a curious idea , given that today ’s two ongoing wars have only compounded the american economy ’s weaknesses , in the region . america ’s war against iran is credible only as a response to a blatant and immediate iranian challenge to vital american interests like a major terrorist attack , an invasion of us allies in the gulf , or a disruption of free trade across middle east oil to the west . the iranian regime is far too astute to cross any of these red lines . iran , like north korea , will continue to test obama ’s capacity to build international alliances aimed at placing pressure on defiant states .
the imf ’s economic framework still fails to provide countercyclical fiscal policies , because the imf remains ambivalent about the standard keynesian prescription of stimulating a downturn . in brazil and elsewhere , the imf ’s distorted accounting framework – what it does and does not count like expenditures – continues to impede investments that are required to modernize public-sector enterprises and introduce major roadblocks through land reform . for example , as the government borrows to purchase land , it treats debt as a matter of debt , but of a offsetting transaction , when it sells land through a mortgage effectively goes unrecognized . while german president barack obama ’s government is not meant to have any intervention in the country ’s day-to-day management , its voice will no doubt be influential . it is here that germany should pause , and look at the record .
washington , dc – donald trump has been officially inaugurated as us president , but questions about russia ’s interference with election will not go away . yet one key question is that one thing is often lost to the fray : why have russian president vladimir putin done so ? to be sure , it is not difficult to guess why putin has favored trump to his opponent , former secretary of state hillary clinton . but there is a difference between hoping for the outcome and the grand lengths – and incurring large risks – to help bring it about . in our view , the american intelligence agency ’s conclusion that by helping trump , the kremlin has been advancing its “ longstanding desire to undermine the us-led liberal democratic order ” is not fully convincing .
moreover , the country is projected to grow at an 8-8.5 % pace over the next year in fiscal year . no budget changes could generate such marked , cost-free acceleration of growth . it is fair to say that the typically staid statistics department stole the thunder from this year ’s budget . nevertheless , finance minister arun jaitley ’s budget succeeds on several fronts – not least in reconciling vision and implementation . specifically , it advances the government ’s vision of a pro-growth agenda that improves the ease of doing business in india , while targeting improved delivery mechanisms for welfare schemes .
it , though , also followed a conciliatory diplomatic policy toward britain and the us , and spent significant resources to make itself attractive overseas . following its failure to develop its imperialist greater east asian co-prosperity scheme of the 1930 ’s ( which had the soft-power component of anti-european propaganda ) and its defeat in world war ii , japan turned to a strategy that minimized its military power , reliance on strategic alliances with the us . japan ’s single-minded focus on economic growth achieved its goal , but the country developed only modest military and soft power . in its first decades , communist china built its military strength and simultaneously exploited the soft power of maoist revolutionary doctrine and third world solidarity to cultivate its allies abroad . but , after the exhaustion of the maoist strategy in the 1970 ’s , chinese leaders turned to market mechanisms to foster economic development .
xi ’s anti-corruption campaign has gone as far as the retired politburo standing committee member , china ’s most powerful body . likewise , carbon-dioxide emissions have fallen dramatically since the beginning of this year , and the authorities appear to be well on track to hit the carbon-intensity objective established in 2010 . regulatory reforms are starting to mitigate shadow-banking risks , and even the fact that some ghost towns are being revived by market forces . at the upcoming fifth plenum , china ’s leaders must build on this progress , agreeing to keep the momentum for reform . to succeed , the government must , like xi put it , the “ gnaw even hard bones ” – that is , overcome vested interests that are resisting change .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
in keeping with the spirit of the times , governments will introduce business criteria to measure the efficiency – and the “ success , ” more generally – of public services . that means , first and foremost , establishing performance targets . so ministers proclaim that street crime will halved by the next spring or that it will raise the proportion of each generation that the university will attend to university in the next five years to 50 % . waiting lists for hospital beds will be cut by one-third within 2 years , or even as much as half . this method of governance makes it seem that at long last we may hold politicians accountable by setting targets or not .
peru ’s president alejandro toledo invented a new extreme sport , the soccer game in which he is the sole player . rather than kicking the ball to win , he aims to such an opponent score . this explains why , with over half its term left in office , a man who led a popular movement to unseat former president alberto fujimori holds a mere 7 % popularity rating today – the lowest ranking any peruvian leader since the presidency was reinstated in 1980 . toledo assumed that his presidency planned to dismantle the corruption that marked fujimori ’s administration and end up reign with its crooked chief of intelligence , vladimiro montesinos . toledo claimed that he would send all dishonest civil servants to prison - words that captured the imagination of peruvians who yearned to see criminal politicians brought to justice .
a mistake in the us presidential debate is possible to turn the tide of public opinion overnight , as happened to president gerald ford in his debate with jimmy carter in 1976 . conversely , ronald reagan ’s performance in his 1980 debate with carter often credited for his victory . another event that could turn the tables is “ october surprised ” associated with terrorism , which could switch a agenda away from the financial crisis from the safety net , republican stronger suit . in 2004 , shortly before the election , osama bin laden released a video tapes , perhaps helping president bush defeat senator john kerry . from bin laden ’s point of view , bush ’s policies were more useful to his efforts to recruit supporters than kerry might have been .
but i see a practical turn of all this , with no one , broached yet . would n’t lugovoi ’s entrance into policy have yielded to putin ’s ideal solution to the problem of trying to find the heir for putin ? that search , after all , is threatening to divide the elite of nations . so why not pick a man like lugovoi , who truly represents what elite stands for ? let us match two potential presidential candidates , putin in 1999 and lugovoi in 2007 .
their mythical tribe was great in some mythical past , so why not try to recreate it ? such thinking poses a grave threat to the world ’s most vulnerable . the united nations sustainable development goal to eliminate extreme poverty globally by 2030 relies wholly on continued economic growth through trade , technological innovation , and international cooperation . erecting trade barriers , engaging in digital mercantilism , and , generally , undermining the liberal world order will severely harm the extreme poor in africa and other underdeveloped regions , whereas doing nothing to help coal miners in west virginia . hard will always manage , but the weak will shoulder the burden of the nostalgic protectionism that erodes the benefits of globalization .
some argue that the state – and , by extension , the communist party of china ( cpc ) – needs to retain a prominent role , in order to preserve the social stability needed to sustain economic development . still others argue that spurring the innovations needed to achieve high-income status requires the state less as a market participant and more like referee , regulator , and the arbiter of economic and social priorities . without question , the state has been integral to china ’s development , not only by investing in areas like infrastructure and technology , but also by serving as backstop for nascent markets and private-sector institutions . state involvement is also needed to help manage inequality and ensure that growth patterns are inclusive , which markets can not count alone on to make them . moreover , the chinese state has resolved coordination problems that are not easy or efficiently handled by decentralized markets , particularly in developing countries , where market institutions and administrative capabilities may diverge at different stages of development .
but the urgency of economic urgency is not reflected in a political answer , with a painfully slow or non-existent one . egypt ’s fiscal deficit , for example , will exceed 11 % of gdp this year . but the country ’s leaders stalling on the terms of a much-needed international monetary fund loan . the government ’s reduction in fuel subsidies last year was not following incremental reforms , and the required tax increases were delayed shortly after president mohamed morsi announced it . almost all political stakeholders in egypt , as in other arab countries , recognize the need for economic reform .
and yet that could very well happen , too . our unicef survey of 126 developing countries found that among the near-one-half reducing public expenditures , common adjustment measures involve public-sector wage cuts or caps , withdrawal of food subsidies , and targeting and rationalization of the already meager social-protection systems . such adaptation arrangements are often adopted , without careful examination of their social impact . how many poor children will suffer – or die – from food shortages and health care ? how much children will miss out on education because teachers are absent because of low wages or simply because poor children will have to work to supplement their family incomes ?
indeed , germany ’s future could play out in two ways . the world has a large stake in which scenario prevails . the first scenario is bleak : germany fails to integrate refugees socially and economically , political discontent surges , and newcomers become increasingly frustrated with their plight . any steps taken to vent that frustration embolden right-wing populists and could result in violence on both sides ’ side . if , to some extent , the terrorist attack has been to materialize – particularly the one that , to some extent , could be linked to refugees – nationalist-populist responses would be powerful , potentially weakening the very fabric of german society .
military decisions in contrast with the military ’s ability to allow mubarak loyalists – some riding camels or horses – to charge into cairo ’s tahrir square and to attack thousands of anti-government demonstrators , were a classic military as government “ move . ” at this point , a more democratic transition will most likely require the army to play a more active role in protecting protesters . what is clear is that it depends on the army ’s capacity to establish a much greater separation from the regime . successful political transitions are also helped if more and more citizens come to feel that they “ own ” the protests and the resulting transition . with that regard , calling for mubarak ’s instant resignation originated in cairo ’s tahrir square , rather than from the obama administration , positive developments are .
at the same time , they will obviously work in close partnership with ugandan forces . but does the uganda operation , after so narrowly , on libya ’s intervention herald a police role for the us whenever the un or icc – which , lacking its own police force , rely on its members and interstate cooperation – judges need to do so ? given america ’s unwillingness to join the icc ( or bring its own torturers to justice in american courts ) , such a role would be vulnerable to international and domestic political assault . nevertheless , the scale of america ’s cooperation with the icc has far exceeded an even constructive role the obama administration has proposed . evidently , american policymakers are becoming increasingly receptive to the potential of the international criminal justice ( icc ) to undergird the terms of an emerging new form of global engagement .
so why not americans , too , feel more alarm at their country ’s rising income inequality ? part of the reason that they do n’t is that most americans do not recognize what is coming to the top . one poll found that 19 % of americans think their incomes had put them in the top 1 % of the income distribution – and that a 20 % more hope to reach the top 1 % someday . deep into the core of american ideology and culture is the constellation of beliefs and attitudes : believe that the future will be brighter than the present ; that what you achieve with your own hands ; that individuals should count on , not the state ; that men can cross the oceans and mountains into the way of ourselves make better lives ; and that those who succeed are not through luck and corruption , but through the preparation and industry . these are not beliefs that are conducive to social democracy .
stockholm – our generation has a unique opportunity ; we have no opportunity to do so . if we set their minds to do just that , we could be at our first in human history to leave our children nothing : no greenhouse-gas emissions , no poverty , and no loss of biodiversity . that is the course that world leaders set when they convened at the united nations in new york on september 25 to adopt the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . the 17 goals range from ending poverty and improving health to shielding the biosphere , and providing energy for all . they appeared from the biggest summit in the un ’s history , the 2012 “ rio +20 conference , ” followed by the largest consultation the un ever undertaken .
so far , the noisiest are often rewarded with a megaphone while less polarizing , fewer privileged voices drowned out , though providing smart and nuanced perspectives that can genuinely enrich public debate . unless an algorithm is able to perform the job of silencing less privileged voices , online trolls often step in , directing hateful and threatening speech at whomever they choose . women and minorities are particularly likely to fall victim to online harassment , but anyone may be targeted . for example , german blogger richard gutjahr has become an object in conspiracy theories and target the intense harassment after being present in two weeks of terrorist attacks . victims of online harassment often respond with self-censorship , with many of them feeling safety and even self-worth eroded , remove themselves from the social media altogether .
africans barely count in american politics , because it does not vote for all . africans do n't vote ; they do n't buy us products ; they are not threatened by violence . they simply are the poor , hungry , and disease-ridden people ; few rich countries do better than america . i single out america not because it is unique to its neglect , but because it is unique in its capacity to lead .
hence , as he put it in 1932 , there might be a “ no escape from prolonged and perhaps interminable depression apart from direct state intervention to support and subsidize new investment ” – which is exactly what the obama administration is justifiably doing . on the issue of what caused the crash , the debate is all the more so . krugman is hampered by having attributes the crash to the “ irrationality , ” which , like cochrane points out , is not theory . this is because krugman refuses to take keynes ’s crucial distinction between risk and uncertainty . on my view , keynes ’s main contribution to economic theory was to emphasize a “ extreme precariousness of the foundation of knowledge on which our estimates of prospective yield need to be made ” .
cape town – nowadays , too often , people are forced to choose between doing what ’s morally right and doing what benefits economically . indeed , their possibilities sometimes seem to be mutually exclusive , making the choices that paths to exceedingly challenging . sometimes , moral rectitude and economic interest merging , however , presents an opportunity that must not be missed . that is the case – from the perspective of this archbishop and former finance minister – with a response to climate change in the world . the moral imperative is indisputable , as the effects of climate change – including extreme weather , temperature variation , and rising sea levels – feel most keenly by the global poor who have , too , benefited the least from the economic activities that cause it to cause .
and on that day , he was so well lamented that his absence appeared like a show , somehow making us forget that he was no longer with us . abiding in each of us , jacques chirac , which had moved us all too well : youth spent traveling with an act , like gautier captain fracasse ; father , character out of modiano , who between bouts of drinking , pawned gifts given to him by his abandoned son . and then came ’60s rocker with the sights of a sad wolf and cheekbones hewn by giacometti , catcher in rye sentiment , and melancholy so intensely hopeless that he seems to have condemned him to live on his side of every form of excess . he was the consummate artist of the french scene , chameleon beamed out on satellite television , dripping with fake sweat and real gmetic , an artist whom i had confessed as a way to lying . hallyday was a baby of a generation
of course , it was subject to ups and downs , but it was not the subject of financial crises of a type that we see regularly today . moreover , capitalism in the post-wwii decades had maintained full employment , with unemployment often hovering around 2 % in europe , north america , and japan . job insecurity back then was largely unknown , and mass poverty disappeared . the keys to the period that sustained growth and happiness were the robust social welfare system and mainly keynesian domestic and foreign economic policies in every of the world ’s big states . above all , each advanced economy pursued policies designed to provide high wages with high consumption guaranteeing high levels and thus rapid growth .
but we are interested and connected , but not absorbed . ” that seems to mirror a stance , expressed by cameron and former chancellor of the exchequer george osborne – that helped set the stage for brexit . in response to the euro crisis , they were arguing that europeans needed more fiscal integration , but with no uk backing ; no british financial participation would be possible in future euro rescue operations . solidarity ( at least the kind that costs money ) stopped at the english channel . but , like de gaulle ’s declaration , and perhaps the slogan , churchill ’s statements employed the language of political ambiguity .
what the west can do is apply pressure on iran – and other governments in the future – to ensure and account for protesters ’ safety . natan sharansky said this tactic – the west tracking , and is demanding accountability for treating individual domestic dissenters – helped breaking up the soviet union . in this crisis , american president hassan rouhani should form united front with human-rights groups that can advise him exactly how to follow , sustain , and support those iranians who have been , or might not , arrested , even worse . barack obama says that america “ stands with , ” those who support free assembly . that will welcome news to people living under dictatorial regimes installed and propped up by the us and opposition leaders and journalists languish in us-supported prisons in those countries for having engaged in such protest .
russia 's membership in the world trade organization has the potential to strengthen the rule of law , combat corruption , and give russia a stake in improved relations of outside world affairs . closer ties between russia and europe make sense for similar reasons . there should also be some understanding for what russia and russia have gone through the last two decades . losing a country and a special place in the world is a kind of trauma that could lead to the emergence of extreme and potentially violent nationalism . russia , in particular , should be treated as a major power , which implies consultations on important global issues .
but a consensus emerged in brazil that a left party could neither win nor govern with hard-left ideas , and lula ’s presidency did not challenge this view . the consensus may have reflected lula ’s predecessor ’s success , fernando henrique cardoso , brazil ’s relative success in the privatization and liberal market economies around the world , and brazil ’s growth in the middle class . whatever the case , for key brazilian leaders , including rousseff , capitalism has become part of the solution , not the underlying problem . investors take all kinds of risks . the biggest are not always legal ones upon which the world bank and development agencies have centered on their own ; rather , they are the business risks of a failing company or polity implodes the way .
of course , my reduced cost will be someone else ’s reduced revenues – and not just apple ’s . one large loser in this world will be freight business ( along with junkyards , logistics companies , and centralized recycling operations ) . when things can be made , used , broken/worn out , recycled closer to home , the transportation need is reduced dramatically . recycled materials need not come from centralized processing centers , and then passed to factories . products are not needed in those factories and then shipped on to customers or into inventory centers .
london – in the 1960s , the green revolution – which included the development of high yielding crop varieties – fueled the expansion of irrigation infrastructure , and the distribution of modern fertilizers and pesticides to developing-country farmers – bolstered agricultural production worldwide . but chronic hunger remains pervasive , particularly in developing countries , where crop shortages and food-price volatility affect the majority of the world ’s developing countries . by 2050 , the global human population is expected to exceed nine billion . achieving food security means ensuring that all people have consistent , affordable access to proper nutrients , despite land and water constraints , climate change , and rising resource-intensive western-style diets that accompany rising incomes . surmounting these challenges will not be simple .
indeed , for many years turkey ’s domestic critics have denouncing what they describe as the regime ’s “ putinization ” has been denouncing . turkey , not the european union , is currently making its presence feel in the world . but the course of history can change fast . in reality , turkey needs europe just as much as europe as it needs turkey . europe is , for turkey , a “ principle of moderation ” and an enticement to remain democratic .
experience , by contrast , indicates that governments often struggle to align government spending with underlying or mounting problems such as public-health threats until they reach the crisis . more people died last year from cancer in the us than in combat . in fact , last year ’s 580,000 cancer deaths exceed that of around 430,000 combat deaths ; globally , in world war i , world war ii , kosovo , vietnam ’s war , and the gulf war . yet government spending on cancer averages around $ 4 trillion per year in annual military spending . that is only well over 0.5 % of the us military ’s roughly $ 718 billion annual gdp , and that figure is just over 0.5 % of its gdp .
a journalist visiting the kingdom of saudi arabia recently asked me why five out of the six students interviewed at king house saud university still believed that al qaida was not accountable to attacks on the world trade center , nor the pentagon in america last year ? dealing with this question is increasingly frustrating to me , because i have run out of plausible explanations . i used to believe that denial of saudi complicity in the attacks reflected our distress with what happened on this dark day . i hoped that we had the courage to overcome our perceived humiliation and start looking deep into our national psyche , asking the big question : “ why did 15 of our young men attack america in so brutal a manner ? ” so far , we are no approaching the attack to answer this question , because it was impossible to find the nerve to ask it .
moreover , income inequality widened , with an even bigger phenomenon in the global concentration of wealth at the top very pronounced in many arab countries . top incomes in these countries resulted largely from political patronage , rather than innovation and hard work . whereas tunisia was an extreme case for a regime furthering the economic interests of a small clique of insiders , the pattern was widespread . this is why a knee-jerk , simplistic “ washington consensus ” prescription of more liberalization and privatization is inappropriate for the arab world in 2012 . there is a clear political need for a growth strategy in which inclusion has been the centerpiece , not the afterthought .
but that no longer happens to be the case , either . indeed , trump ’s recent actions are not just the case for trade ; they are about abandoning america from pax americana itself . few countries find themselves more connected to the post-war order than germany , which , like japan , owes its post-1945 economic resurgence in order to a rules-based trading system . germany ’s economy relies heavily on its exports , which means acutely vulnerable to trade barriers and punitive tariffs imposed by its major trading partners . trump ’s protectionist policies thus challenge the entire german model of economic growth , as it existed since the 1950s .
during macron ’s first five-year term , he should therefore focus on raising france ’s gdp growth to a average of at least 2 % per year , and reducing unemployment to just below 6 % . the simplest way to achieve both goals would be to focus on where france underperforming relative to other eu nations . part of the unemployment challenge is tied to hidden costs . france has some of the highest labor costs for hourly employees , and it is only natural to hiring tepid . with inequality growing also , many french rightly upset that labor is taxed far more than capital gains .
in early december , putin signed a federal budget for 2015 , predicting 2 % annual gdp growth and a budget deficit amounting to 0.5 % of gdp . but collapsing oil prices , together with tough economic sanctions imposed last month , meant that by the end of the month the government predicted a 4 % contraction in gdp and a budget deficit of 3.5 % of gdp – and that , after budget cuts of about 1 % of gdp , it will be more likely to be expected to grow by the end of this year . based on these figures , it is estimated that russia will spend 70 % of the reserves fund accrued over the past decade or so when oil prices were high . if low oil prices persist and western economic sanctions remain in place , russia is running out of cash by the end of 2016 . nonetheless , putin ’s approval rating remains at around 80 % .
libra , though , has , of course , been sold as much more than it does this . as one facebook executive puts it , “ we want to send money as easy as it is to send a text message . ” given that libra would take the form of private money connected to the basket of stable major currencies , how would that work in practice ? if argentina ’s people could switch from pesos to a basket of stable currencies with one touch of smartphones , would n’t they then pour in to that safe asset at the first hint of trouble in the domestic economy ? a standard standard “ efficient market analysis ” does not help us to answer that question , because in perfect markets such flows , such flows would be self-correcting .
the us recently rising euro has also helped keep europe down long-term interest rates – crucial determinant of economic activity – because inflationary expectations deteriorated somewhat in the euro-zone region . during april , the rise in inflationary expectations and the euro ’s appreciation occurred more or less concurrently . yield on ten-year german bonds , which might have been expected to go higher due , if not more , to the deterioration of inflationary expectations during this period barely moved . this has been the big plus for sustaining economic recovery . should bush , bernanke , or new treasury secretary henry paulson cause investors to lose belief in american financial-sector assets at some point in a time when rising euro levels will help to shield european interest rates from consequences .
this political entity is an accurate counterpart in the political world to the well-known physical phenomenon of the splintering or fishorizontal . when stressing , a grand surface bifurcates at the big chunks , but then disintegration continues into smaller , smaller fragments . of the six larger eu states , only france has an genuinely well-defined centralized political system . poland ’s centralism comes close , but strong regional disparities persist – a legacy of the three great , quite different imperial systems that enveloped today ’s poland in the nineteenth century . italy and germany were nineteenth-century amalgamations of a colorful variety of small and medium-size political units . the united kingdom looks older and more stable , but scotland is today controlled by a political party that wants to repeal the union ’s 1707 act , with a future determined by the 2014 scottish referendum .
we believe in banknotes because we collectively decide to trust government when it says 100 is a hundred or 10 or 50 . money is therefore about trust , without which any society could function . just as we follow through our leaders ’ orders to fight and die because we trust their judgment , we entrust our careers , and our money to the people who run citigroup and goldman sachs and other such banks because we trust their leaders in fair behavior to their employees and clients , honorable in their business practices . we do n’t grow up wishing to work for crooks and liars , so they can do that we can not . once that trust breaks , bad things happen .
ultimately , of course , the soviet union ’s ossified structure could not have been saved ; but , thanks in large part to gorbachev ’s core decency , the ussr ’s demise in 1991 was rather peaceful . he created an environment in which demands to compromise radical change led not to rage – in sharp contrast to the violent breakup of yugoslavia , say , yugoslavia . such as francis and sanders , gorbachev was an implausible reformer . despite ascending to power with kgb support , he did not surrender his thinking processes to that machine , in the manner that president vladimir putin clearly possesses . likewise , far from fitting the mold of a democratic machine , sanders is now working to pull the party back “ in the social-democratic left , where it belongs . ”
american agricultural subsidies , by contrast , do just that ; those in the developing world who believe that there has been history of bargaining in bad faith have a strong case . that leaves developing countries facing hard choices : will they be better off accepting crumbs ? whatever economics , taking this route may be harder today than ever : with so many developing countries becoming vibrant democracies , electorates may punish governments that adopt what is widely perceived as another unfair trade agreement . unsurprisingly , the negotiators of rich countries are throwing around big numbers when describing the gains from even an imperfect agreement .
princeton – more recently , physicists at the grand hadron collider ( lhc ) – the world ’s most powerful particle accelerator , located near geneva at the european nuclear research organization ( cern ) – announced the famous discovery in 2012 of higgs boson as actually the higgs boson . now , the standard model of particle physics is complete with the other important point : black holes . four years ago , doomsayers forecast that the lhc would produce microscopic black holes that swallow earth in a matter of months . latter-day adamnostrums have used provoked widespread fears , not to mention lawsuits , about high-energy particles ’ physics experiments . these prophets were , of course , neither the first nor the last of their species .
monetary policy has long played an important part in brazilian politics . during the 1980s and 1990s , successive governments attempted to tame hyperinflation , bringing the country into 2,477 % in 1993 , and at the end of the twentieth century . the introduction of the “ real plan , ” launched in 1994 , succeeded in restraining annual price growth to an “ acceptable ” 22 % by subsequent year . riding on the plan ’s success , its architect , fernando henrique cardoso , a former economy minister , was twice elected president ( in 1994 and 1998 ) , underscoring voter concerns about price stability . today , as central bankers in the advanced world fret about the threat of deflation , brazilian policymakers are once again being forced to respond to widespread fears of slowing growth and a return to high inflation .
not surprisingly , at this year ’s world economic forum annual meetings , the atmosphere was grim . those who think that globalization , technology , and market economies will address the world ’s problems seemed subdued . most have chastened bankers . against the backdrop of the sub-prime crisis , disasters in many financial institutions , and the weakening of the stock market , these “ masters of a universe ” seemed less omniscient than they had done a short period ago . and , of course , it was not just the bankers at davos doghouse this year ; they were also their regulators – central bankers .
now , given the profound sovereign-debt crisis in the eurozone ’s periphery , government defaults threaten to bail out big banks . the european central bank has been lending a lot of emergency “ liquidity ” funding to banks , which they use to purchase even more government debts . that holds down the interest rates on which debt is in the short run , but creates even bigger potential losses in cases of potential default . banks and policies are deeply intertwined across all advanced economies . diamond discovered that , ultimately , us policymakers trump bankers – at least in the uk .
despite low average growth rates , the income of the bottom quintile grew by more than 6 % annually in the 2000 ’s , owing largely to cost-effective social policies . given that the government continues to follow a comprehensive poverty-reduction strategy – including improved access to health care , financial services , and education – brazil ’s overall productivity should improve in the years to come . brazil even so , too , has a long way to go . for starters , anemic investment in traditional infrastructure since the 1980 ’s has become a increasingly heavy drag on tfp , contributing to waste-management and inefficiency in existing production systems . this could be addressed by fine-tuning labor ’s division into infrastructure investment and management among the public and private sectors , with the goal of crowding out the latter .
in the period following the oil-price shocks of the 1970s until the early 1980s , nearly two-thirds of the countries recorded annual inflation targeting above 10 % . according to the latest data , which run through july or august for most countries , there are “ only ” 14 cases of high inflation ( the red line in the figure ) . venezuela ( which did not make up its official inflation statistics this year ) , and argentina ( not having released sound inflation data for a few years ) figure prominently in this group . iran , russia , syria , ukraine , and a few african countries comprise the rest . the share of countries recording outright deflation in consumer prices ( greece ) is higher as recently as 2015 than that of countries experiencing double-digit real ( 7 % of gdp ) growth rates .
for the most part , quick fixes they imposed so far have not been very successful . for higher education , there is of course an alternative . in the absence of sufficient funding , one can simply let universities deteriorate . on the european continent , this has occurred since the late 1970s . overcrowded classes , in often poor physically connected settings without necessary equipment , led to ever longer periods of schooling , worsening the quality of degrees , and much unhappiness among students and professors alike .
only war 's bloodshed , sad to say , can seal such a diplomatic bargain . kosovo 's need to be liberated from milosevic 's grip has been so visible for a decade . two million kosovars suffered milosevic 's rule in every aspect of their lives , from basic security to education . for years , they tried to express their grievances through peaceful means . as the political activist in the final days of yugoslavia , i was trying to build upon a philosophy of nonviolence , leading demonstrations , and other forms of peaceful forms of dissent .
the phenomenon has taken many forms , including the muslim brotherhood , established in 1928 . at the same time , nation-building efforts coupled with secular lines reflected egyptian president gamal abdel nasser ’s pan-arabism and the syrian ba’ath party , which was resulting in the united arab republic ’s establishment , the union between egypt and syria that lasted from 1958 to 1961 . a half-century later , the ongoing revolts in the arab world have been a product of neither political tendency , nor reflected broad popular rejection by dysfunctional and corrupt authoritarian governments . but , with syria immersed in a brutal civil war that claimed more than 130,000 lives already already , libya on the verge of collapse , and egypt returning power to its army and proscribing the muslim brotherhood , tunisia was its only achievement . tunisia has adopted its new constitution on january 27 , clearing a way for what will be the most secular and fairest elections in any of the region .
berlin – the way we eat in an industrialized world is unhealthy , unjust , and unsustainable . far too much of the meat we consume is produced under questionable ecological , ethical , and social conditions . and now our industrial model for meat production is spilling on to the global south – especially india and china – where the consumption of meat among these countries ’ emerging middle classes is on the rise . globally , 300 million tons of meat produced annually , with the united nations food and agriculture organization ( fao ) estimating that the annual sum is expected to increase to 455 million tons by 2050 if demand continues to grow at its current rate . such large amounts of meat can be produced on an industrial scale , with political , and environmental costs at a high rate .
cambridge – for some time the four horsemen of us macroeconomic policymaking have been taxation , regulation , trade , and infrastructure . i have studied the first in detail , finding fiscal cuts to be a positive contributor to economic growth . although i have considered the second area in less detail , the evidence suggests that regulation is , at best , only a minor contributor to growth . a third area is highly consequential . the fourth area exists only in rhetoric : the infrastructure program is currently not a part of the macroeconomic policy repertoire .
as gordon notes , there have been long-lasting productivity dividends associated with urbanization – trends that , at least , could continue for the next decade in china . but there will be a time when this tailwind subsides and china start to converge on the so-called frontier of advanced economies . at that point , china will face the same challenges of productivity that confront america and others . chinese policymakers ’ new focus on innovation-led growth seems to recognize this risk . without powerful innovations , sustaining productivity growth will be an uphill battle .
but the plan has been projected to depress economic activity further , and has failed to lay an appropriate foundation for calculating how much debt restructuring puerto rico would need . sadly , the opportunity for the right puerto rico ’s fiscal ship has not been seized . on the contrary , the oversight board recently certified a new fiscal plan , and an agreement by holders of bonds issued by puerto rico ’s urgent interest fund corporation ( cofina ) that could put the island on a debt straitjacket indefinitely . on $ 17.8 billion , cofina bonds ’ stocks ( backed by future sales-tax revenue ) account for over one-third of gdp in the new fiscal plan . and the cofina agreement itself is part of the larger debt-restructuring effort , which is based on the unrealistic assessment of the commonwealth economic conditions .
ten years on , what impact has been on the lives of displaced people ? the achievements have been notable , if insufficient . we have raised awareness about the plight of the displaced in a way that has brought about changes in government policies and raised billions of dollars to respond to their basic needs . this has helped save countless lives . humanitarian efforts remain strengthened , including through new swift funding mechanisms , the un ’s central emergency response fund .
wearing a watch that costs 200 times as one that does a better job of keeping time tells you something else , even when worn up by people who are not governing a relatively poor country . andrew carnegie , the richest man of veblen ’s era , blunt his moral judgments . “ the man who dies the rich , ” is often quoted as saying , “ dies disgraced . ” we may adapt that judgment to the person or woman who wears some $ 30,000 watching or buy a similar luxury goods , like a $ 12,000 handbag . essentially , such a person says ; “ i ’m either extraordinarily ignorant , or simply plain selfish .
he shows that both the “ total ” and the “ average ” answers have more paradoxical or counter-intuitive implications . but then , so , too , does every other response , proposed since parfit revived the problem , and other philosophers began offering solutions to their own . if the reasons and individuals could easily have three separate books , on what matters really is : the first of those volumes were made public during 2011 , while the third , in the press when parfit died , appeared simply . in this monumental work of the time , totaling some 1,900 pages , parfit the idea – almost universally assumed by economists and by many philosophers from david hume onward – that the role of reason is telling us how to get what to be what we want , but not to tell us what to want . on the contrary , parfit argued that desires could be irrational .
by acknowledging mental health and wellness issues at work , we can make a difference in our homes , school and community alike . seeking mental-health care should be as routine , unremarkable as seeking treatment for high blood pressures , diabetes , or heart conditionality . furthermore , we have to reduce mental health inequity , frequently ignored issues . this is often a problem in lower-income communities , where populations can be at greater risk of pathology and often confront the highest barriers of getting care , partly thanks to the absence of specialized resources available in wealthier areas . there are some innovative approaches to addressing this problem , such as zimbabwe ’s friendship bench , and i look forward to learning more about this project from one of its interlocutors in davos .
experts argue that the probability of a terrorist attack because of the dubai takeover is small . the damage inflicted by a terrorist attack , too , would not be a problem . but the damage inflicted by the attack might be tremendous , because ports thought one way terrorists might smuggle nuclear arms to the u.s. . because this , the american people can not afford to take even the minutest of odds with their ports – the consequences of being too staggering to contemplate . the american public understands this , even if their president does not .
but the four developments that have modified the international security agenda are likely to transform chicago into a high-profile summit in its own right . first , revolutions in the arab world – and nato ’s military intervention in libya – have refocused the alliance ’s attention on the middle east and north africa . second , the international financial crisis will have an enormous impact on nato members ’ defense budgets . third , in a speech last june , outgoing us defense secretary robert gates revived a debate on transatlantic burden-sharing and solidarity within the alliance . ultimately , the first nato summit to take effect in the new 13 years in the united states is taking place , not only in the election year , but also in president barack obama ’s hometown of hometown .
yet smallholders , when it comes to climate-change solutions , can not be ignored : the half-billion small farms account for 60 % of global agricultural production , and provide up to 80 % of the world ’s food supply in the developing world . collectively , they manage vast areas of our planet , including 80 % of farmland in sub-saharan africa and asia . can we really count on these farmers ; many , desperate to do so , take a prominent role in addressing the twin security and ecological sustainability challenges ? can they produce more food at the same time as conservation ? we believe that the answer to either question is resounding yes .
one such reform would have been to expand access to foreign investors . over the last decade , it has barred foreigners from making investments in more than 40 industries designated “ critical for a national security ” by the government . this ban , while benefiting industry insiders , has lowered russia ’s access to financial markets , and , more critically , to new technologies that follow the country ’s financial flows . the financial sanctions that followed russian forced reunification with crimea in 2014 intensified russian isolation further , as has the eu ’s own moves to retaliate : many sweeping trade restrictions , including outright bans of food imports from the european union and america . lifting these restrictions would not only give the economy a boost to immediate growth , but also boost long-term gdp growth .
the uk-eu relationship was always somewhat fraught . in the 1990s , the uk was a proponent of eu membership for cee countries at a time when eu leaders in france and germany were still very hesitant on eu enlargement . but uk support had some catch up : british leaders , reluctant to embrace the eu ’s long-stated goal of an “ ever-closer union ” – which implies political unification and shared national and federal sovereignty – had made no secret of their desire to use the widening eu membership to avoid deepening european integration . throughout the run-up to the referendum in negotiations with eu leaders , british prime minister david cameron won an opt-outs clause with a resolution regarding a move toward ever-closer union . he should prevail over a referendum and persuade voters to remain ; he will send a dangerous signal to illiberal politicians in eastern europe .
and future workers will require training in ethics , helping them navigate a world in which the value of human beings can no longer receive for granted . educators preparing students for that future must start now . entrepreneurial majors should study economics and policymakers to avoid becoming blind determinists . economists must learn from engineering students , because they will be engineers who are building the future labor force . and law students should focus their attention on the intersection of big data and the human human rights , so that they can gain the insight required to defend people from forces that can seek to turn individuals into disposable parts .
the top-down hierarchy is autocratic and arbitrary ; lower levels have little collaborative input , and no right of appeals . serious breaches can result in reprimands or dismissals . in effect , the system has become largely self-regulating . in my experience , 99 % of all censorship occurs with writers and producers themselves . sporadic complaints and warnings from above allow them to develop an intuitive sense of boundaries to be acceptable content , so they create shows that they are free from offending material from the start .
tokyo – japanese prime minister shinzo abe ’s recent decision to expand the diet ’s current session for 95 days until september 27 – making for the longest continuous session of the japan-japanese parliament ’s postwar history . the reason is clear : abe is determined to pass a set of domestic security bills , allowing a reinterpretation of japan ’s constitution that enables a country to play a greater role not just in enhancing its own security , but also in advancing world peace . abe ’s moves in the diet come on the heels of his performance at the recent g7 summit in germany , where , with the japanese tradition , he broke . for the past 39 years , japanese representatives to the g-7 had been focused on economic-policy discussions at such meetings , content to remain mostly silent in the way that the industrialized world ’s more leaders surveyed in the planet ’s geopolitical hot spots and recommend action , or , more often , inaction . but the summit showed that japan no longer intends to take a diplomatic sidelines .
in february 1996 , kohl urged that nato put enlargement on hold until the russian and american presidential elections passed . he instructed ministers not to discuss the matter publicly , implying that the talks would not be left to nato machinery alone . to underline this point , first foreign policy activity by chancellor helmut kohl had been a visit , at the beginning of september , to ailing boris yeltsin , with whom kohl friendly relations . that visit yielded another appeal not to rush nato enlargement into into question . in germany 's parliament , chancellor of the exchequer announced boris yeltsin after his operation that he would “ renew the necessary dialogue and address concrete issues more urgently , such as nato enlargement … . to reach an accord with president clinton , chirac , and prime minister that we would now refrain strongly from dealing with an important matter of nato-enlargement in some framework so that moscow feels that we are not creating fiat accompli . ”
only this , fogel believes , can explain recent longevity trends , body size , durability of vital organs , and chronic illnesses . these changes also trigger changes in human consciousness . the result is a litany of “ post-utopian ” values , one that includes a stronger emphasis on individual liberty and personal responsibility . in this world , without utopia , individual freedom represents the supreme value . but , as with any such magnitude change , holdouts exist .
london – the gravity of the eurozone crisis has finally sunk . the stakes could not have been higher . governments and international financial institutions scrambled to place a solution within exceedingly tight political and economic constraints . so far , many questions have to answer the design ; implementation will be as daunting at least . eurozone leaders must now aim to preserve not only the single currency , but also the gains from european financial integration .
washington , dc – while much of the developed world is rightly concerned with myriad privacy outrages at the hands of big tech , and is demanding – and securing – for individuals a “ right to be forgotten , ” many around the world pose a very different question : what about the right to be perceived ? following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
drug-related violence has consumed untold numbers of victims in afghanistan , burma , colombia , the us , and mexico in particular . the swiss re-examined its governmental drug-policy with a pragmatic eye . medical professionals have taken the lead in campaigning to print the government – through the mechanisms of direct democracy – to shift its focus from arresting and punishing drug users to public-health policies that rely on scientific evidence of what works . the swiss has implemented methadone programs . and , to avoid the spread of hiv , the swiss have created needle exchanges , including prisons , and established safe injection rooms on a large scale . likewise , the swiss federal office on public health has oversaw an experiment in prescribing heroin to people living with opiate dependency for significant periods .
washington , dc – the impact that groundbreaking technological advances like artificial intelligence will have on the functioning of our economies and labor markets has been hot for a long time . but jerusalem ’s recent book humans need not apply : a guide for wealth and working in the age of artificial intelligence impressed me on the true size of the socioeconomic stakes . one relatively familiar example of the digital revolution ’s impact on markets ’ workings is their ability to earn huge returns in high-speed trading by becoming a microsecond “ ahead ” of everyone else . another is the capacity to price discrimination by new electronic market makers such as uber , which thus suited each penny of the old “ consumer surplus ” of microeconomic theory . soon , a new kind of enhanced uber could emerge , integrate cars , bus , ship , airplane travel , and hotel rooms into a single super-app .
in a world of scarce resources , policymakers have to prioritize their investments , including differentiating the necessary from the desirable . to this end , finding ways to identify and maximize complementarity is vitally important . some 2.1 billion people worldwide lack access to safe , readily available at home , and more than twice as many – a whopping 4.5 billion – lack safely managed sanitation , severely undermining health outcomes , and fueling river pollution . with a growing proportion of the world ’s population – including many of the same people – feeling the effects of environmental degradation and climate change firsthand , finding solutions that simultaneously advance environmental protection , water provision , and health might not be more important . global health and conservation professionals must collaborative more closely to find those solutions – and convince policymakers to pursue them .
this is unwelcome developments in software providers whose business model rests on licensing and annual maintenance fees , not electricity usage . indeed , large firms in almost every field are vulnerable , as startups become better endowed , competitive and capable , such as larger firms , reaching customers and users everywhere . disruptive technologies , moreover , will cause value to shift among economic sectors , as occurred when tv overtook radio , or , more recently , when online media gained dominance over print publishing . businesses in every sector now need to invest in understanding new technologies to seize up opportunities , or mount an effective defensive fast . indeed , ceos and other top executives need to be technologists or at least technology-savvy companies , and to evaluate how innovations influence the status quo specifically their profit pools .
by 2013 , that share had dropped to 13.5 % , and it had dropped to 13.5 % by 2013 , on average . while the developing world had 1.7 billion more people than it did in 1991 , 209 million fewer were starvation than the world . over the past 22 years , the world managed to feed nearly two billion more people in an adequate manner – no small feat . more than the next year , it will bring together the world ’s 193 governments to set the new global targets that they are expected to meet by 2030 . the challenge amounts to this generation ’s greatest window of opportunity to translate high aspirations into concrete ends .
fifteen people were killed and many more injured in what is remembered as the peterloo massacre . given the recent memory of the violent french revolution , the british elite reluctantly agreed to democratizing reform . ultimately , the 1832 reform act abolished rotten boroughs , broadening franchise to the new middle class ( the working class and women would be forced to wait ) . the united states , too , went though the robin ber-baron industrialization of 1870 and 1880 . the greed and corruption of this era were satirized by mark twain and charles dudley warner in their book the gilded age : the story of today .
but , through farage – and with farage , the faragism taking over a governing conservative party – an act of economic self-harm that apparently runs counter to national interest is portrayed as the apotheosis of british patriotism . narrow-minded nationalism is not simply a british malady : across the west , much of the public sees globalization as leaderless , missing the face of a human life , and resembling an uncontrolled runaway train . moderate leaders everywhere now need to respond not only to the economic discontent of millions losing out , but also to the cultural pessimism and dismissal of politicians as being “ in it only for himself , ” which is being denounced by succor toward the populist nationalism espoused by trump cheerleader stephen bannon and his ilk . what makes it all that much worse in britain , however , is the series of gross errors of the political judgment during and following the 2016 referendum campaign . while the defeated remain waged an economic campaign centered on fear of loss of jobs from exiting the eu , a victorious leave party waged a culture war
a survey of existing laws and regulations discovered that many were contradictory and overlapping . the ande proposed the creation of a new court through amending the constitution . it was successful in the wake of strong public support to combat corruption . the new court is empowered to reconcile or revoke laws that contain the conflicts and duplications of the judiciary . each firm and business associations must decide on the best strategies and tactics to pursue in their countries .
how did ukraine reach this state of cynicism ? a year earlier , everyone gathered in kyiv ’s streets knows what we stand up against : a corrupt government that sought to command life and labor , and dispose of state assets , at its will . to the extent that formal legal rights existed , no court could be relied on to enforce those rights when our rulers saw their interests as challenged . in evicting this regime , we believed that the form of absolutism ended . instead , those who benefited from the regime = s have insisted that their right to the property they have stolen were inviolate .
a single community was provided with continuous access to the micronutrient and protein supplement known as atole . furthermore , during pregnancy , health workers were visiting mothers and granted free medical services in the same way . another community nearby had the same program , except that micronutrient complement was provided without protein . for children who received atole , the risk of stunting fell by more than one-half . they stayed in school longer learned , gained more , and became more likely to become employed in higher-paid , higher-paying , skilled jobs .
from day to day , the coalition was riven by feuds as a result of their own . ministers behaved , rather than partners , as they did in the past . instead of blaming iliescu for the shambles in which he left the eu , coalition members blamed each other . such squabbling seems to be a post-communist malady . poland , hungary , even russia : in all three infighting among reformers allowed a political heirs to the communists to reclaim power .
though the economy was at full employment , they rebelled against the status quo in the name of the dubious utopias inspired by fidel castro ’s cuba and mao ’s china . they were joined by well-organized trade unions , which helped move toward critical mass at least temporarily . the difference between then to this point and now is that those taking to the streets to protest against macron ’s proposed fuel-tax increases are animated not by utopia but by desperation . in this sense , the yellow vest uprising is not unlike the french brexit , in which it amounts to an act of shooting yourself in a foot . whereas the british resorted to the ballot box , the french adopted a mix of barricades , marches , and stone .
she recalls everything and regrets nothing at all . she feels that , in acting as she has , she has faithful to her most cherished values and beliefs . and she has no doubt that the west , in responding to the arab league ’s entreaty to intervene , has avoided playing a replay of srebrenica in north africa . what strikes me the most is that she sees , even then , the beginnings of tribal conflicts , and the coming contest among islamists to out-do one another within fundamentalist purity . she worries about early human-rights violations , particularly the rights of women , whom she worries will multiply .
over the past six months , the u.s. has abandoned its fourdecade-old policy of engagement with china , adopting a containment strategy instead . confronting escalating geopolitical competition with the us , china is scrambling to win friends in the region . although china ’s charm offensive is very recent , its contours are already clear . the most prominent feature is trade with the us , with the world ’s largest trading partner to numerous asian countries . like the us , as the us , china will offer attractive terms of trade to its neighbors , much the same as singapore ’s .
london – “ shorting ” is a tactic well known among financial copiñscenti . it means betting against an asset with borrowed money in anticipation of making profits when its value goes down . a speculator can “ short , ” a government by borrowing its debt now at its present price , in the hope of selling it later at lower prices and pocketing the difference . for example : on january 1 , 2010 , i thought that it would soon be the game for greeks to rise . i borrow at face value , € 10 million ( $ 0.91 ) of the greek government ’s 2016 bond , then trading at € 0.91 at goldman sachs , for six months .
indeed , the constraints were allowed for dubious journalistic practices to flourish . jordan ’s diverse tribal composition was reflected in the newly established web sites , some of which were created with tacit support – and even funding – by security agencies or other official or political groups . moreover , many people began the news web sites exclusively for financial gain . taking advantage of the implicit authority of news media , they published whatever potentially harmful rumor about individuals or groups with meaning and influence , subsequently offering to remove the story in exchange for paid advertisement or outright cash payment . in response to such extortionary practices , king abdullah ii decried the “ character assassination ” by online news media , demanding that the government establish an independent regulatory framework for this unruly new industry .
the poison of terrorism today ripped into the un ’s humanitarian work with the tragic bombing of its iraqi mission . dozens of innocent people were killed , including one of the most accomplished peacemakers in the world , sergio vieira ( mello ) . predictably , president bush re-stated his determination to wage war against terrorism . other leaders have declared that the un should not abandon its mission . yet the bombing raises the political issues that demand answers .
but indeed , they are illegal occupiers , because russia ’s decision to give passports into these regions ’ residents attests . now , russia threatens to recognize the autonomy of abkhazia and south ossetia if the west recognizes kosovo ’s serbian province as an independent nation . to the extent that most of abkhazia and south ossetia residents already receive russian citizenship has been afforded to most of their residents , the recognition that these two regions ’ sovereignty would be fully fictitious , with no interim measure in mind regarding how russia should fully annexation . to reinforce russian political influence over georgia ’s separatist regions , gazprom , without having to take trouble to request permission from georgian democratically elected leaders , began to construct a gas pipeline connecting russia and south ossetia directly . although no disruption of gas supplies from tbilisi to south ossetia was taken , this step must be for the kremlin to secure even greater integration of this georgian region into russia ’s economic system .
back then , german bankers and bosses deluded themselves into thinking that they could control their country ’s vulgar new chancellors . and they believed themselves that , despite hitler ’s odd behavior and appearance , he remained the best defense against communism , despite putin ’s bizarre behavior , as opposed to communism . sadly , many in today ’s elites seem to have learned nothing from history to think and act as though interests and values were totally disconnected in the actual world . so long as trump is good for business , they appear unconcerned that he is the single biggest threat to america ’s soul and values , and to their image and interests abroad . sure , they suggest that trump may well be about to do a bit too far with the chinese on trade , but at least demanded the proper questions .
even more worryingly , this would open the door for provisions that are stifling benign , low-risk data mining that drives online advertising . online advertising lets eu citizens access information , education material , commerce channels , and entertainment sites without paying for them directly , and the amounts that are being spent in europe are growing fast . industry revenues have more than quadrupled since 2006 , even as the european economy has stagnated . the eu ’s privacy crackdown now threatens to undermine all of this . not only will it create a bureaucracy burden through additional costs and bureaucratic hassles ; it will also raise the real possibility that the new rules will undermine germany ’s leading online business model .
when programs are being developed when combined with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often missed school because they lacked access to clean sanitary products . but , when reusable sanitary pads and education about menstruation were provided to girls in eight schools , attendance rose by 17 % on average . the global-health community must work together to tackle menstrual needs for girls and women everywhere ; no single global solution lies at this point . but the silence surrounding the natural process of menstruation must be broken , in order to ensure that both women and girls can obtain the sanitary products they need at affordable prices . today , bloody good times donate sanitary products – including pads and tampons , like diapers and “ jokowi ” – to more than a dozen uk resource centers for asylum-seekers every month .
but , for many revolutionaries , other ways were made to sack a tainted prosecutor and cleanse the judiciary . for starters , a new law that regulating the judiciary has been a wake-up call for the revolution since its early weeks . for morsi , the dilemma was that the constitutional court was likely to punch down laws , rendering effort meaningless . already , it was backed twice : once in july 2012 , when he abandoned his effort , under pressure from the supreme council of the armed forces , to reinstate the elected parliament ; and once he attempted removal of a public prosecutor by making egypt ’s ambassador to the holy see . morsi ’s “ constitutional declaration ” was a decisive – if undemocratic , polarizing , and thus politically costly – step to break the impasse .
moreover , it amounts to betraying the longstanding commitment of america to upholding a rules-based monetary system that discourages competitive currency devaluation . in us foreign policy , america ’s secretary of state rex tillerson endorsed the us ’s revival of the monroe doctrine – a nineteenth-century assertion of american primacy in the western hemisphere , which aimed to keep out europe ’s competitors – in central and south america in order to curb china ’s growing influence . tillerson ’s nostalgia for 1823 was not shared south of the border , where , as one mexican commentator pointed out , the monroe doctrine “ has served to justify the gringo interventions , ” and where china ’s increasing engagement is seen as the countercounterweight . the trump administration has also unveiled a new , more aggressive nuclear policy . its nuclear posture review proposes the use of nuclear strikes in response to non-nuclear threats , deploying a new “ low-yield ” nuclear device to deliver a submarine a nuclear bomb equivalent in power to those that destroyed hiroshima and nagasaki in 1945 .
elsewhere in emerging markets , too , the main challenge is ensuring that all macroeconomic and structural policies advance common goals . at the same time , the governance structure of multilateral institutions like the international monetary fund must be reformed , in order to bolster their legitimacy in emerging markets . elsewhere , these institutions will remain ineffective in confronting collective issues concerning macroeconomic-policy spillovers , as well as in providing insurance against crises . in the advanced and emerging alike , policymakers should focus on underlying failures that destabilize their economies and impede growth , rather than trying to treat the symptoms by manipulating their monetary policy or capital controls . unless they are supported by strong institutional structures at all levels , such measures will prove futile when managing capital flows becomes more effective .
the economic challenges facing developed-country middle classes are largely the product of two factors : the rapid lost white - and blue-collar routine jobs to automation ; and the shift of the middle - and lower-value-added jobs to lower-labor-cost countries . at the same time , the latter pattern depressed incomes and wage increases not only in the tradable sector directly , but also in the non-tradable service sector , owing to the spillover of displaced labor . the result was surplus labor conditions in the middle - and lower-income ranges , not dissimilar to early-stage developing countries ’ excess labor , where it suppresses income growth ( for a time period ) even as the economy expands . a collapse in bargaining power from labor and falling real minimum wages can also add to income polarization , even when those are likely to be secondary factors . though the challenges facing the middle class have become well documented , us leaders largely failed to recognize fully the struggles of middle class households , far less implement countermeasures .
zurich – finland ’s central bank governor olli rehn reiterated his call to the european central bank to conduct the long-overdue review of its policy framework . the upcoming change of leadership at institution – with christine lagarde , the international monetary fund ’s managing director since 2011 – is likely to succeed mario draghi as president – offers an important opportunity to heed this call . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the united states could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
such scenarios have been unimaginable for decades until only recently . for decades , europe has constituted the world ’s most prosperous , stable , and predictable region , the place where history seemed all but to be finished . for most part , the purpose of making the entire continent peaceful and free had largely been realized . but dramatic change has come to europe . one factor is vladimir putin ’s willingness and ability to show russia ’s use of military force , economic coercion , and cyber manipulation to advance its agenda .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and no side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . batang toru is just one of many of the world ’s planned infrastructure projects , which are officially considered environmentally sound , despite posing serious environmental risks . for example , construction is almost completely on the rail line through kenya ’s famous nairobi national park , despite its public outrage over its “ incomplete and incompetent ” environmental impact assessment .
in many ways , such measures have succeeded : monetary expansion has played a prominent role in pulling the economy back from the brink . but , over time , central-bank capacities have declined to the real economy . today – and for the foreseeable future – domestic inflation is increasingly affecting the global rather than local , developmental , and financial ( in ) stability and fiscal policy are far more influential than monetary policy . to the ecb , this generates a particularly serious challenge to the world . after all , unlike other central banks , it must account for the preferences of 19 sovereign governments , with little to no structural or fiscal-policy coordination .
today , the fastest-growing cities in asia are the world , and the rest of asia is in some form . beijing is roughly 10 º c hotter than nearby daytime countryside , with 5.5 ° c warmer at night , as a result . there are even more dramatic increases in tokyo . in august , temperature rises to 12.5 oc above nearby countryside , reaching 40oc – scorching warmth that has affected not only downtowns , but also covered some 8,000 square miles . looking at a fast-growing city like houston , texas , the us can already see the real effect of the urban heat island .
some people saw these changes happening , and worried about . a growing minority began pursuing intense physical activity not in fields or factories , but in leisure settings . the sweat of one brow was no longer linked to productive work ; rather , , consumption – often conspicuous consumption – as a result . gyms became new sources of community . and , because coworkers began to exercise together , enlightened employers came to see such recreation as a valuable source of physical and mental wellbeing .
according to the european council on foreign relations , 32 referenda are being demanded across 18 countries . some , such as the danish people ’s party , are seeking to follow a united kingdom leading , holding out a vote for eu membership . others want to escape from the eurozone , block the transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) with the united states , or restrict labor mobility . the eu ’s refugee relocation scheme has proved to be particularly divisive . hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has declared his intention to holding the referendum on the proposed quotas .
from the start of his presidency , obama ’s defense of the liberal trade regime has been inadequate . he has said repeatedly that us exports are good news for the us : they create jobs . but american exports are other nations ’ imports , and so obama ’s argument amounts to telling others to lose their jobs as well . he needs to remind americans that imports are good , too : they can surely ask his audience to think that jobs in cargo planes , freight trains , and trucks that carry us imports to the american interior . the central problem , though , is that obama has been unable to confront and put to rest , american labor unions ’ fear-driven hostility to trade .
usury ( making money money out ) was an offense against god . it was only in the eighteenth-century era that greed became morally respectable . it was now considered healthily promethean to turn wealth into money , and to put it to work to make more money , because by doing this one , benefited humanity . this inspired the american way of life , where money always speaks . the end of capitalism simply means ending the urge to listen .
rather than focusing on the treatment that works , the polish government is choosing to give priority to long-standing rehabilitation centers located in the country ’s depths that have little , if anything , done with evidence-based medicine . poland also chooses to treat possession of even the smallest quantity of drugs as criminal , as evidenced by the fact that 60 % of people who are condemned for drug possession in poland are marijuana smokers . addressing drug use through criminalization and rehabilitation centers does nothing to curb demand , and usage rates have failed to do so . by driver ’s underground , criminalization contributes to a deepening public-health crisis . that pattern persists throughout central and eastern europe , where governments have opted for imprison drug users as well .
frankfurt – the european central banking authority is at the center of a large , risky experiment . key interest rates have now stayed nearly to zero at least six years . financial markets are awash in liquidity , and the risk is not being flooded into the financial system for the last six years or less . crisis management has generated major market-distorting effects , with some segments ’ performance no longer being able by fundamental economic data . the unintended effects of such policy are becoming increasingly visible — and will become increasingly tangible with the exit of america ’s federal reserve from post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policies .
the alliance has evolved into a true security-administration organization that has become more flexible , efficient , and cost-effective . threats have shifted and become more global . nato is developing ballistic-missile defenses capabilities to protect our european populations and territory against grave and growing threats . in the indian ocean , nato is operating with the european union and a number of others to police major sea-lanes threatened by pirates . and , in countries around the world , it carries tasks such as de-mining , disaster relief , advising on how to bring military forces under democratic control , and working closely with the un to avoid harm to children .
to promote sales , buyers are exempted from sales and excise taxes ( $ 6,000 per vehicle ) . and , anticipating the eventual replacement of conventional motor vehicles globally , us authorities are delivering generous subsidies to domestic manufacturing . meanwhile , the trump administration is trying to roll back the clock , by betting on resuscitation of dying – and deadly – fossil-fuel sectors . describing a shift to electric vehicles as a job-killer , trump advocated ending federal subsidies that spur domestic development , manufacture , and purchase , for example , a $ 7,500 federal consumer tax credit . china ’s dependence on fossil fuels has left it in a deep environmental hole , but its leaders are determined to climb out .
provided it is non-discriminatory , such border pricing would enhance global welfare , and be compatible with the rules of the world trade organization ( wto ) . however , calculating the appropriate tax would be enormously difficult in practice . it would , for example , necessitate calculating the tax equivalent of regulatory ceilings . the measure can also invite countries like the united states to retaliate with distortionary measures , make it rather hazardous . moreover , a tobin tax would probably have regressive distributional consequences , hurting poor countries the most .
eurozone countries , together with others , are willing to join the eu in the future ( “ the eurozone plus ” ) , might simply decide to use the legal means already available to scale up cooperation . ideally , this cooperation would take place within the eu ’s institutional framework . if all eurozone members participated , article 136 of the eu treaty could be used to support their action.the scope for such an provision – which says , “ [ the ecb ] council … adopts measures specific to [ member states of europe ] , ” and that “ only [ euro ] member states … take the part of the vote , ” – is wide . moreover , article 138 would allow a unified representation of the eurozone in the international monetary fund and the world bank . the group could then extend cooperation to three other policy areas :
gunnarsdóttir accepts that “ everyone has a right to believe in what they want , ” but she insists that , “ children ’s rights will come above the right to believe . ” for its part , imam ahmad seddeeq of iceland ’s islamic cultural center countered that circumcision is part of muslim faith , and that gunnarsdóttir bill amounts to “ a contravention [ of ] religious freedom . ” and agnes m. sigurardóttir , iceland ’s bishop , warned that ban would effectively turn judaism and islam into “ criminalized religions , ” because anyone practicing circumcision might be subjected to six years in jail . complicating matters further , both sides base their arguments on human rights . some ban supporters , for example , have argued that circumcision violates article 5 of a universal declaration on human rights ( udhr ) , which states that , “ nobody would be subjected to torture or cruel , inhuman , or degrading treatment or punishment . ”
but policy analysts can not limit themselves to classic instruments of nuclear deterrence – punishment and denial – because they evaluate the possibility of deterrence and dissuasion in cyberspace . they should also pay attention to the mechanisms of entanglement and norms . entanglement can change the cost-benefit calculus of major states such as china ; but probably it has little effect on a state like north korea , which is weakly tied to the world economy . in such difficult cases , “ persistent engagement ” can nonetheless aid deterrence . to be sure , entering any adversary ’s network and disrupting attacks represents a danger of escalation .
confirmation of a tighter and more rigorous stability pact is also imperative for greater integration . here , the eu ’s summit in december was an important step forward for deepening political union and strengthening governance among member states of the eurozone . but more will still be needed to restore financial stability , such as expanding europe ’s overall firepower to the european financial stability facility . moreover , if the eu is to emerge strengthened from the crisis , it also must strike a better balance between austerity and pro-growth policies , because , absent growth and higher employment , the eurozone ’s problems can not be addressed . more importantly , the eu must tie its economic strategies to long-term competitiveness , which ultimately determines the value added to goods and services .
in 2007 , shadow-banking transactions in the us exceeded that of conventional banking assets . the financial stability board estimated that total global shadow-banking assets in 2011 amounted to $ 67 trillion , with america accounting for $ 23 trillion , the eurozone ’s total of $ 22 trillion , and the united kingdom at $ 9 trillion . chinese shadow banking totaled just about $ 2.2 trillion , and the us and the united kingdom alone . shadow banking in china is dominated by higher-risk borrowers , such as local governments , state-owned real-estate developers , and small and medium-size businesses . it is ultimately funded through retail bank deposits , bank wealth developers , and private equity .
in 2009 , obama envisioned a conflict settlement through the international community ’s robust commitment . in 2011 , he argued that a willingness of the only parties to ensure a successful outcome is possible . clearly , america can not do much , in order to resolve the conflict . there is no overarching explanation for obama ’s successive middle east failures ; but there are several factors worth weighing up : the build-up of asymmetrical conflicts in which the traditional use of force is largely ineffective ; increasingly blurring lines between difficult allies and intransigent adversaries ; and major policy distinctions between a centrist us president and a congress that is dominated by more than ever extreme ideas . but obama himself bears large blame for that .
as mit economists like david autor have shown , the impact of this in developed countries can be both bad for certain workers and good to corporate profits . but it can be extremely good for any developing country that promotes a fruitful balance of inward investment and local entrepreneurship , and is using export-led growth proceeds to invest in infrastructure and skills . in fact , china ’s dramatic economic success would have been impossible without labor-driven trade initially at labor-cost differences . in the future , however , this kind of trade will probably grow less important . with wages now on a rising fast enough scale , its labor-cost advantage is diminishing fast .
beijing – just how fast , then , is china ’s population aging and what does a lower proportion of working-age people mean for a country ’s economic development in the first place ? can – and should – be done anything , particularly to a country ’s “ one child ” policy , to slow the trend ? nowadays , most demographic predictions for china stem from the country ’s total fertility rate ( tfr ) – an amount that is 1.8 – virtually unchanged for the last 20 years . but population-survey data published by the national bureau of statistics suggest that the tfr has been lower than 1.5 for many years , with the united nations ’ newly published report calling for global fertility patterns 2009 revises china ’s tfr to 1.4 in 2006 , placing it among low-birth countries . a long period of low fertility means that , for example , china ’s population is aging and the working-age population ’s rise is slowing .
after the monetarist approach failed , some switched to targeting the inflation rate again . but they repeatedly missed their targets . until the currencies crash of the 1990s , emerging and developing countries tended to target their exchange rates . many then also switched to their inflation targets ; but they tend to miss these targets even more often than the advanced countries did . the problem with such monetary-policy approaches is that even though a particular numerical target may be sensible when it is set , the subsequent unforeseen trend often makes the target of hard to live with the us .
in fact , the dangers now facing europe , following socializing debts , are considerably greater than those posed by the mere potential financial crisis . the lesson that greece will need to draw from the greek debacle is that the eurozone must develop sovereign insolvency processes as soon as possible , thereby preventing other sovereigns from turning lenders through debt mutualization . if national governments in europe are willing to help one another in crisis , they should unilaterally provide humanitarian aid without conditionality and redemption . if you lend to your friend , it will no longer be your friend . unless the wisdom heeded , it will be impossible to hold europeans together .
finally , orbán and his supporters keep his grip on power by relying partly on gerrymandering and voter suppression ( which mostly influences hungarians living in western europe ) . trump ’s republican party is using similar tactics in the us ; orbán has used it . for having eroded hungarian democracy , orbán has recently welcomed him to the white house and describes him as “ respected everywhere over europe . ” trump and his advisers apparently learned a great deal from orbán regarding racist immigration policies , and how to undermine democracy . nor are they making america great or even good ; making it hungarian .
worse , orbán has destroyed hungary ’s civil service independence and thoroughly politicized the us law-enforcement administration . trump is doing much the same , with an effect on which the american government now loses around 94 % of its statutory cases . at the same time , trump has purge some 17,000 public officials by firing american state department staff , shutting down the us government , freezing pay , and creating an atmosphere hostile to honest , open debate about how to formulate and implement policies . by politicizing american administration agencies , starting to capture the justice department and committing to making ideological judicial appointments , trump is now a long way along his quest to destroy the rule of law across america . while orbán has pressed economic pressure to force the closure of hungarian opposition media , trump has described the print as “ enemies of the people ” and threatened libel actions against critical outlets .
yet it is not clear , from ayyadurai ’s article , which data were used , and there is no validation of the model . folta offers a brilliant send-up of ayyadurai ’s work . “ if you have developed a computer program that integrated the internet data for the location of munich , and the program has told you it squarely in the gulf of mexico , the right off florida does not mean that munich is in the gulf of mexico , the us right off of florida . ” instead , it means that you have made the wrong mistake , in your program and assumptions or input data – all testable . to decide not to challenge those data , folta continues , and instead to “ publish a map showing that munich falls squarely in the gulf of mexico , opposing all other data and claiming millions of rather dry germans does not mean that it is brilliant .
in other words : europeans confront a fundamental collective-action problem . experience showed that only an acute crisis can force european leaders to act together within concerted efforts . but in the fall of 2008 , at the height of the global financial crisis , eurozone heads of state deemed no longer the creation of a common bank-rescue fund . instead , they settled for a package of national measures to stabilize national banking system one by one . the sum of the headline commitment was impressive , amounting to 20 % of gdp .
a 17-day war ensued , but a status quo prevailed . again , the two sides fought again in 1971 , even though kashmir was not a focus . following an all-out civil war pitting then-west pakistan against bengali freedom fighters of then-east pakistan fueled a wave of east refugees , india began supporting rebel groups there . west pakistan was forced to surrender , and east pakistan became bangladesh ’s independent state . then , in 1999 , another indo-pakistani skirmish over kashmir erupted , after pakistan sent troops into the indian-controlled kargil region .
with hiv born in the 1980 ’s , the compromises that the immune system compromises , tb re-emerged , number-one hiv-infected killer . roughly 15 million people suffer from co-infection from hiv and mycobacterium tuberculosis , primary epigenetic agents in most tb cases , and tb . in addition , the cle bacillus engages in trench warfare , gaining resistance to conventional antibiotics , and canonical vaccination approaches , as well as delaying diagnosis and fixing drug sensitivity . whereas pandemics appear to be suddenly spreading , rapidly , raising enormous anxiety about an impending threat , tb has spread slowly but consistently for the tens of thousands of years , patiently waiting for new opportunities . treating tb requires the minimum of three drugs administered over at least six months .
the disadvantages of strengthening european fiscal union further do not end there . continued progress toward a fiscal union would , paradoxically , make political union increasingly unlikely for a single simple but important reason : france . europe ’s strongest military power by a far , france thwarted all attempts at the pool of european armed forces . in 1954 , france ’s national assembly rejected the treaty for western european union defense organization ( esdp ) . in 2005 , france rejected the proposed european constitution , which could mark the start of a political unification process .
the limits of targeting inflation are now apparent . central banks now need to reconcile the need to maintain price stability with responsibility – regardless of whether it is legally mandated – to reduce financial vulnerability . this will not be easy , not least owing to a different new operating burden , which has been placed on many central banks : macro-prudential and micro-prudential supervision . micro-prudential supervision , in particular , implies the risk of political pressure , interference by central banks ’ independence , and the political conflict everywhere , all of which could leverage the behavior of financial intermediaries , by encouraging them to assume greater risk . they know that , at the time of this day , their supervisor has the powerful tools at its disposal – for example , it can lower borrowing costs , thereby safeguarding banks ( at least for a while ) – and a powerful interest in protecting their reputation .
compared with the developed world , an unusually large number of small , unproductive firms coexist with a small pool of large , productive firms . by standard economic reasoning , this is inefficient . if small , unproductive firms closed off and more large , more productive firms hire their workers , their total output , and wellbeing would rise . this should happen automatically through the invisible hand of competition , because the more productive firms should supply a better product at less prices , while luring workers with higher wages . so why is n’t this routinely happening in developing countries ?
as china ’s new leadership team emerges , attention from the world has been focused on president jiang zemin ’s successor . but that is misguided , for maybe the most significant moment in china ’s recent history of boom and transformation , when zhu rongji was elected president of china ( pronounced , “ joo rong-jee , ” the premier of the state council , once held by deng xiaoping . in light of the obvious importance of the post in recent years , mr. zhu ’s replacement may have been of even more significance than president jiang zemin ’s departure from center stage . even before becoming premier , mr. zhu , the president of the people ’s republic of china , was well known as the architect of china ’s annual economic growth in the 1990s and the mastermind of his successful fight against inflation . mr. zhu has been china ’s jack welch , a tough-minded , longtime ceo of the american conglomerate general electric , celebrated for his candor , his global sophistication , and his insistence on performance .
by contrast , trade among african countries accounts for only about 10-12 % of the continent ’s exports and imports . but , partly because several african states have escaped the hang-over from the global credit crisis , more investors focus on business opportunity there . by 2050 , africa ’s combined gdp in the largest 11 african economies should reach more than $ 13 trillion , surpassing brazil and russia ( but not china or india ) . for some analysts , the emergence of countries like brazil as economic powerhouses stemmed in part from successful demutualization of their stock exchanges . twenty-three bourses are currently operating in africa , and their combined market capitalization has soared from $ 245 trillion in 2002 to $ 1 trillion in 2002 ( 2 % of the world total ) at the end of 2009 – as high as the world ’s fifteenth-largest stock exchanges .
some countries suffer when skilled workers emigrating . and yet the inability to create mechanisms that allow migrants to use their skills generates even more harm . trained doctors should not be driving taxicabs . establishing national , regional , and global standards is not easy , but they are absolutely necessary . • accelerate eligibility to residency and citizenship rights .
heading to the election campaign , fillon may have run on a pro-european platform , as evidenced by his pivot during the second-round debates when he hinted that he favors forming a government of europe . unlike trump and the united kingdom ’s “ leave ” campaign , the national front already has a predictable core constituency , amounting to about one-quarter of voters . its “ old french ” coalition will not arrive by unannounced or defy expectations , as occurred in the us and the uk . fillon , for his part , can probably muster the same level of support , and may even skim le pen votes , given that around 8 % of the primaries describe himself as national front backers . what ’s more , political catholicism still appeals to a great deal of many french voters , and the catholic church itself wants to lure catholics away from the national front and back into its increasingly conservative fold .
the generation of poles has engaged in charity fundraising drives . for years , poles have ranked owsiak as the country ’s greatest moral authority – ahead of the pope . a state media narrative portraying owsiak and civic platform as guilty parties behind adamowicz ’s murder will only undermine pis . kaczyński has repeatedly demonstrated his impulsiveness . he pursues strength , without considering the consequences of his actions .
new york – the last fast-food hamburger you ate could cost you next to nothing . but what did the tomato slice on that burger cost it the worker who got it there ? almost anywhere in the world – including in the united states – the cost could be shockingly high . appalling wages are just the beginning . in florida , tomato pickers earn an average of just $ 0.50 for every 32-pound ( 14.5-kilogram ) bucket .
when xi first unveiled his slogan after being picked up as the ccp ’s new general secretary , xi defined it in simple but accessible , but nonetheless generic terms : the " chinese people dream of living in the same good lives as all other people in the world . ” xi has said little about the chinese dream since it – and his silence has caused considerable trouble . apparently , china ’s ever-zealous propaganda officials are scared of not showing enough fidelity and respect for the party chief quickly hijacked the motto ; the “ china dream ” has replaced “ china model ” in official political branding . whatever the new administration is touted as part of its ambitious effort to ensure that the “ dream of china ” comes true . alas , china propagandists , who are doubling down like censors , have perverse capacity to discredit anything that he is trying to label .
in fact , they can not , for genetic experimentation on humans is impossible . even in animals whose genes are more easily studied and well understood , such as drosophila , tiny fruit fly , there is no simple one-to-one dence between the genetic and behavioral trait . instead , a wide range of genes influence each characteristic . fruit flies genes are surprisingly similar to ours – as they are to those of the most other creatures . even many aspects of their behavior resemble our own .
gone are the days when strong esg performance made a nice bonus to investors . pension trustees and fund managers now insist that companies where they invest are operating in ethical , transparent , and potentially reputational risk . as a result , emerging-market investment decisions increasingly pre-empt rigorous esg screenings – screenings that , after 34 years of hun sen ’s dictatorial rule , cambodia has little chance to passing . cambodia is currently stripped of its natural-resource resources – including timber , rubber , and sand – for private gain . environmental degradation – especially deforestation – is accelerating and corruption runs rampant , with cash from opaque sources that flow into cambodia ’s casinos , banks , and the real-estate market .
simply put , “ brexit ” talks exposed the european economic and political fault lines – and there is little back there . robert peston , in his 2005 biography of then-chancellor of the exchequer gordon brown , described brown ’s “ pragmatic outlook that the eu was a good thing only insofar as it delivered practical advantages for peace and prosperity to britain . ” while the british have been particularly open to their support the nationalist nature of their support for european integration , other eu members have no less mindful of their domestic interests . in the wake of world war ii , european countries ’ national interest was aligned . nonetheless , efforts to establish political unity through the common army failed in 1954 , highlighting that the underlying economic common ground was the essence of european integration .
quite a few in europe define the eu as an instrument to hold their own against the united states . they see even a european as a weapon against the dollar and a rejoice at seeing the euro as " strong " , with the dollar `` weak '' by the dollar . the us has found a new " empire of evil " in `` terrorist '' states and organizations ; europe has found a new adversary , helping to integrate within the united states . this is the dangerous status of affairs for those on either side of the atlantic who believe in the values of the enlightenment and the constitution of liberty . for fundamental values , there is such a thing as the west .
he is merely kaczyński ’s “ useful idiot ” in trying to score a political triumph over a man representing the greatest threat the pis faces . the most saryusz-wolski may realistically hope for is some government position in poland . perhaps he will replace a broadly criticized foreign minister , witold waszczykowski . most pis , for its part , can hope that some of the coalition countries ( such as those ruled by the social democrats ) will propose another alternative for tusk , whom eu member states will elect to avoid escalating their conflict with poland . in this case , tusk would most likely return to domestic politics , where a ninth victory against the pis would be kaczyński ’s punishment .
now that the eu is once again on iranian stew , this time around the world is now on the table in the irish stew . but this time it is difficult to see a way out that offers a second referendum . renegotiating the treaty is from the question , as would doing so open pandora 's box of demands from everyone else . so the problem lies with iran . i can not be helped , but to recall the situation at the summer of 1992 , when a small majority of danish voters rejected the maastricht treaty .
but experiences around the world suggest this as a risky outlook . even were banks healthy , deleveraging and the associated loss of wealth implies that more , probably than not , the us economy will be weak . and a weak economy means that , more likely than not , more bank losses . the problems are simply not limited . other countries ( like spain ) have their own real-estate crises .
but , even as it increased its capacity to provide military forces for the un , nato , or eu operations , germany has made it clear that it does not view itself as a military power . german policymakers continue to believe that the eu has more to play its weight in political and economic means of influence than violence , implying further developments in soft-power tools , including digital diplomacy . they are also eager to develop more “ networked ” national and european foreign policies that take into account the activities and possible contributions of non-state actors . for now , germany ’s top foreign-policy priorities are likely to continue to remain both the eu and the continent ’s eastern and southern neighbors – from which immediate security risks emanate the most . this would be wise choices .
if greece and other countries are to ensure the health and prosperity of their citizens in a decade to come , they will need to find a way to prevent current economic activity from increasing the already unsustainable burden of greek debt . for this to happen , greek resources must come to view themselves as valuable endowments to be managed wisely . the mediterranean region ’s unique , breathtaking natural capital is one of its greatest assets – reason why more than 200 million tourists flock to the region each year , fed up the region ’s economy . overusing resources , or even failing to manage them carefully , inevitably saps the region ’s economic strength . of course , countries with ecological deficits can often fill part of the gap through global trade – as long as they can pay the necessary imports .
but she must persuasively outline practical strategies to resolve south korea ’s most severe problems , including high unemployment , worsening educational performance , and north korea ’s nuclear weapons program . park once committed to providing credit for working-class families from elementary school to college years , while contending that local universities should have greater autonomy at all levels . she favor a policy of engagement , and six-party talks to resolve the nuclear hardship . come election-day presidential polls in 2012 , south korean voters will pick a candidate who embodies pragmatism and centrism over a partisan or ideologue . park ’s achievement ultimately will depend on the effectiveness of her campaign to define her character further along those lines , along with her own .
a fiscal compact like the one recently approved is useful to anchor expectations concerning future adjustment , but only if a new system is flexible enough to be politically credible . up-front gradualism needs to be . and adjustment must wedded to some growth strategies . revenues will grow consistently only when the tax base – that is , the economy – is growing . and that growth requires more public investment in infrastructure and human capital .
second , the international monetary fund , under the g20 ’s “ peer assessment process , ” has suggested cutting its fiscal deficit to 3 % of gdp above planned – more than $ 400 billion in the extra year ’s cuts . the imf believes that the current fiscal plans will deter america ’s economic rise . more recently , the european central bank reiterated its position that serious fiscal consolidation would generate enough private-sector confidence that gains in household and business spending would more than offset lower government spending . the oecd , by contrast , has not helped consolidate too fast in an sluggish global recovery . america ’s major trading partners want the us to grow , buying more of its exports .
i admit , i view communism 's legacy with more skepticism . totalitarian pressures did indeed form exceptional people , such as john paul ii and alexander solzhenitsyn , people for whom religious faith bought freedom from mendacity and solitude . but it did the same for andrei sakharov and vaclav havel , defending their supreme values with reference to and lay humanism in language . for the most people , however , life under totalitarian dictatorship was not ennobling ; rather , it was the daily immersion of lies , spiritual depravity , and material corruption . this is why postcommunist societies show neither nobility nor disinterested stedness that gravely contrasts with the west .
the evidence clearly demonstrates that direct policies are far more effective . the world bank ’s climate focus is also at odds with what the world ’s poorest citizens want . when the united nations has asked nearly ten million people around the world to list their priorities , they have emphasized improved education and health care , lower corruption , more jobs , and affordable food . global warming has emerged last 16 issues , and we can not afford it . under kim , the bank propagated the simplistic idea that fossil fuels are always harmful , that coal needs to be forbidden , and “ climate aid ” is the solution .
consider the most recent figures for 2014 from the international energy agency ’s department ’s 2016 energy statistics . the world ’s co2 emissions by energy - and industrial sources averaged 4.5 tons of per person ( 32.4 billion tons of tons per 7.2 billion people per year in the iea tabulation ) while us emissions were almost four times that level , 16.2 tons per person ( 5.2 billion tons for 320 million people ) . trump is bearing on the paris agreement ’s supposedly bias in favor of india , but fails to acknowledge india ’s per capita emissions are 1.6 tons , just one-tenth of america ’s level . trump has also bemoans america ’s contributions to the green climate fund ( and sneers at the name of some reason just as well ) . he complains that the american people already give more than one trillion dollars without explaining to america ’s people , and that $ 1 billion in aid contributes $ 3.08 per american .
true , un secretary general ban ki-moon can make speeches , convene meetings , and draft actions , but his role is more secretary of state than general . sometimes likened himself to the “ secular pope , ” the un secretary general , in particular , can wield soft power by persuasion but rather little hard economic or military power . what hard power the un must be beg and borrowed . and when it can not agree on an action course , organizations can be difficult to operate . just as it puts one wag , “ we have encountered the un and it is us ! ”
perhaps for this reason , talk of a meeting is at astana between presidents of russia and france , america ’s then-secretary of state , and presidents of armenia and azerbaijan . that prospect holds both great opportunities and serious risks . there is reason for no such meeting , after all , to be held in the 20 years of conflict . a meeting of presidents is , after all , the final negotiating forum and must lead to a true , sustainable success . otherwise , there will seem that no amount of negotiations can aid the caucasus ’s set straight – powerfully undermining key restraint preventing both sides from again trying to achieve military solutions .
governments in both america and europe find themselves rough , uncharted waters . if the problem were simply a matter of gross violations of the organization of american states ’ democratic charter – convincingly certified by oas secretary general luis almagro ( oas ) – solutions measured in months or years could come to mind . but venezuela is not just a political problem ; it is a humanitarian catastrophe of unprecedented proportions . true , venezuelan president nicolás maduro is ruling unconstitutionally , relying on emergency decrees and the all-powerful , one-party state , illegally instituted constituent assembly , while ignoring the elected national assembly and banning opposition political parties . but the impact of his misrule is that venezuelans die from starvation , the health-care system has collapsed , and violence and contagious diseases are now practically outside the control of any kind .
but the pace at which a political world embraces social media has accelerated dramatically in the last year . aside from the bjp ’s wholesale acceptance of twitter – modi ’s network allies include the party ’s parliamentary leader , sushma swaraj , and a coterie of organized supporters – prominent indian politicians from all parties have leapt . a day after assuming sworn in as india ’s president , pranab mukherjee announced that he would open facebook accounts to received and respond to public questions . west bengal ’s chief minister , mamata banerjee , runs a popular and widely read web site that traditional media outlets mine daily . similarly , omar abdullah , the youth chief minister of jammu and kashmir , regularly interacts with twitter , with his far older rajasthan and kerala counterparts , ashok gehlot , and oommen chandy , respectively , opened facebook accounts just like they did .
related to this is the fact that nowadays , economic development depends less on a particular country and on a more rules-based regional integration , which can serve to avoid the negative effects of those financial speculations that boosted globalization . so , in its regions , the world needs easier integration through the pursuit of universal economic democratization : currency compatibility , free trade , shared rule of law , and the majority of all common will be to correct the rules of the game on the basis of the interests of the region as a whole . only such equal cooperation can secure a solid political foundation for integration . so long as a country is subordinated to the uncontrollable force of trade globalization , its future lies in foreign hands . but , in agreeing to open up regional economies to imports , the poor , and the developing world must allow some of them to safeguard their new industries .
when egyptians rose against mubarak in january , they faced arms paid out for borrowed money . is it fair only to expect egyptians to continue paying for their previous repression , impoverishment at mubarak ’s hands and his cronies ? given that this money clearly benefited mubarak but not his people , should it not be mubarak rather than his victims who holds responsibility for it ? mubarak ’s regime was running clear for many years . a prudent lender was supposed to be seen as these facts before making loans .
perhaps those ideas are en vogue in korea in the same way they think about a potential unification , but even there will be hard times when time comes . claims of alternative strategies thus must be established at a rather lower level - say , at the start of exchange rates , which might choose east germans to be a low wage country . even that is the dream since the face of high unemployment , east german wages grew substantially each year relative to the west germany . indeed , at a more depreciated conversion rate , which the us would simply have had a more rapid wage rate . one alternative strategy , remotely conceivable , is that west germany would preforesee the failure of the experiment before embarking on it .
new businesses in the service sector – 3.6 million starting just last year – are generating incremental employment , owing partly to a new , streamlined licensing framework . and online platforms facilitate increased consumption , while expanding market access and financing for smaller firms . rather than pursuing additional fiscal and monetary stimulus , china ’s leaders should aim to accelerate and construct on these trends . public investment is high enough ; expanding it now would shift the composition of aggregate demand in the wrong direction . and , with the corporate sector already over-leveraged , broad-based credit-expansion is not safe .
it would be inconceivable for nato heads of state to go ahead with their planned warsaw summit in june if poland remains mired in its constitutional crisis , with the government disregarding the rule of law and the opinion of a respected international body . hungarians and poles need to be reminded that russian president vladimir putin has been actively attempting to divide and weaken the eu and nato . if europeans are to face down aggression from the kremlin , it is crucial that poland and hungary abide by such groups ’ fundamental values and principles . but it also needs a more comprehensive mechanism for protecting the rule of law within the union . the eu has mechanisms to regulate economic policies , safeguard the environment , and police the single market .
for good reason , many fear that fossil-fuel interests will exploit solar geoengineering to counter the emissions cuts . yet most researchers are not driven by such interests . the overwhelming majority of those researching solar geoengineering , or advocating for inclusion in climate-change debates , also promote much stronger steps to reduce their emissions . still , big fossil – from multinational energy companies to coal-dependent regions – will ultimately take advantage of debate geoengineering to fight limits on emissions . but that risk is not enough reason to abandon or suppress the research on solar geoengineering .
achieving that would require the us to subordinate its power toward the goal of shaping a new order , much as it did at the height of world war ii ’s closing in 1945 . instead , america succumbed to the temptation of unilateralism . national greatness for a world power has always arisen from its ability to shape the world as it does . if great powers foracquire this , or lose the capacity to act accordingly , they begin to shrink . it is almost tempting to think that america ’s great cold war adversary , with its sudden disappearance 15 years ago this month , was left to its own trojan horse for america – the poisoned gift of unilateralism .
for their part , industrialized economies must do more to support african oil industries , ensuring that the negative effects of oil production mitigated . for such a strategy to work , however , the arab national petroleum industry needs to get it on board . this means engaging sincerely with african governments to figure out how best to encourage national agendas to thrive and diversify . the upcoming abu dhabi international petroleum exhibition and conference , hosted by abu dhabi ’s abu dhabi national petroleum company , hosted by barkindo , is also an ideal opportunity to initiate this process . working with other stakeholders , campaigners for a sustainable , just transition can also achieve something more : allowing the carbon energy to have a positive impact on economies that have so far seen only the negative impact of the twentieth century ’s oil-backed development .
economic development in gaza ’s strip was limited under egyptian rule , with the region suffering the burden of absorbing palestinian refugees fleeing the fighting in southern areas of mandatory palestine that would later become israel . palestinians ’ access to egypt was limited , making it dependent on much of gaza ’s largely unskilled workforce on the un relief administration , which built and maintained local refugee camps . the 1967 war positioned all mandatory palestine ( as was sinai as well as the golan heights ) under israeli military occupation . yet , even though one-third of the west bank was closed to palestinians to create room for a few thousand jewish settlers , only 10 % of its largely rural population were refugees , many of whom owned their land and a wide variety of jobs . by contrast , 70 % of gaza ’s population comprised refugees living in difficult conditions in refugee camps scores and largely depended on the work of israel .
a second history draft frequently tells us that keynesian people themselves will be written . after world war ii , winston churchill confidently claimed that history would treat him kindly , because , “ i propose that history is to write down this . ” with the onset of the financial crisis , the same thought may have crossed the minds of hank paulson , ben bernanke , and tim geithner , who were us federal reserve bank chairman , and president of the new york fed , respectively . all three published lengthy memoirs explaining why they did , and did n’t do what they did , and do not – inevitably , with the degree of self-justification for each case . now a decade later , the three had co-authored what could be described as an version 2.1 of that episode ’s history .
the goal was not to tackle the problems they faced directly , but to induce new , more effective activities to help turn debt into assets , and to maximize the economy ’s capacity . in this sense , east asians ’ economies embraced the process of “ creative destruction ” described by the austrian economist joseph schumpeter , whereby the economics structure has been steadily revolutionized from within . furthermore , by implementing incremental reforms that facilitate – and even encourage – old , inefficient sources of growth with new , more dynamic ones , they have expedited this process . for example , in the 1980s , china ’s productivity-enhancing agricultural reforms spurred the growth of non-farm enterprises , a result of policies aimed at stimulating township and village enterprises ( soes ) . similarly , in the 1990s , china addressed the buildup of bad debt and unfinished construction projects – the product of state-owned enterprises ’ chronic loss-making and excessive real-estate investment , in addition to implementing the institutional reforms that stimulated growth in more dynamic sectors , offsetting the soes ’ declining returns on equity .
brussels – as protests over china ’s crackdown in tibet and the debate over kosovo ’s unilateral declaration of independence continue to fester , taiwan ’s continuing international isolation has barely stirred up the flicker of interest , despite taiwan ’s recent presidential election and its referendum on united nations membership . this neglect is not only shortsighted ; it may prove dangerous , too . this seeming double standard can be explained partly by a sense of guilt : the west has embraced kosovo ’s independence for most of its own , in an effort to assuage its own culpability for not preventing slobodan milosevic ’s campaign of ethnic cleansing there . similarly , much of it is in protest in the world in behalf of tibet , for countless millions has witnessed , if not all , of china ’s brutal suppression of tibetan culture . on the other hand , taiwan is not getting the attention it is taking to its side , as it stabiliizes and prosperous economically .
for now , many are eagerly offering to views whether to look to the uk again at the eu ’s “ norway model ” of relations , or some other scheme that maintains uk participation in the single market . whatever the option , it is now clear that britain needs a policy that can command broad and genuine support . a second change for the better would hope , i hope , be less controversial : reducing power bestowed on in the uk in non-elected special advisers , or spads to become dominant figures in all departments of government . during my 17-month experience as a minister in singapore , i became convinced that the spads ’ excessive power – and a haughty approach – undermines the uk ’s excellent civil service , as well as its elected and appointed ministers . may ’s two leading spads , fiona hill , and nick timothy geithner , took this danger to alarming levels .
indeed , many of the ingredients used to make nanomaterials are currently known to present risks for human health . an encouraging trend is that the methods used to create nanomaterials often become “ greener ” as they move from laboratory to industrial production . setting aside the issue of nanomaterials ’ toxicity , preliminary results suggest that fabricating nanomaterials entails risks that are no less than or comparable to those associated with many current industrial activities . it would be naïve to imagine that nanotechnology develops without risks to our health and environment . while trying to halt the trend from the development of the apollo al-inspired technologies would be as irresponsible as it is unrealistic , the responsible evolution of these technologies demands vigilance and social commitment .
globally , human trafficking generates an average annual gain of $ 150 billion , of which two-thirds ( $ 99 billion ) originate from forced sexual exploitation . with the rapid growth of digital platforms threatening to force child sex trafficking to become even more prosperous , the world must take urgent , coordinated action to counter this appalling crime . today , almost 4.5 billion people have access to the internet , and about one in three internet users is under age 18 . the unregulated online world is therefore fertile ground for reaping enormous profits from child sex trafficking . would-be traffickers need just laptop or smartphone connectivity to enter businesses .
we all owe it to that . europeans experienced a hard but promising start . not so it should come as a surprise that the euro began slide against the dollar , contemplating divergences in economic performance between america and europe . and it should come as no surprise that markets tested europe ’s willingness to remain quiet , where monetary matters are concerned . recent intervention and american support , and japan ’s , showed that there is much to stay the euro , and that markets believe in their success .
people learned that it was paying to purchase a dips . now that internet fever abated , we hear that “ fundamentals ” are reasserting themselves . but this view is as much the half-truth as the previous notion that the boom would last forever because the internet economy had shaped new fundamentals . indeed , the online boom/bust cycle brings questions into question prevailing economic theories about financial markets . what should now be clear is that so-called fundamentals that supposedly determine stocks prices are not independently given .
palo alto – since the sixteenth-century science of toxicology has been established , its guiding principle has been that it “ makes the dose the poison . ” it is rule that applies to drugs used by patients worldwide many billions of times a day . the right dose of aspirin can be a therapeutic godsend , but consuming too little is lethal . the principle even applies to foods : large amounts of monetarist meg or licorice are notoriously toxic . the risk that a substance poses broadly depends on two factors : its intrinsic capacity to cause harm and one ’s exposure to it .
given libya ’s lack of democratic experience , some view this as the likely outcome in a post-qaddafi era . but libya is not the only country trying to move from dictatorship to democracy with weak institutions and robust tribal identities . albania , mongolia , and india successfully passed increasingly elaborate tests – and offer some useful lessons in democratic transitions under unfavorable conditions . a fourth scenario is partition with the old tripolitania ( the east ) three province ; ottoman-style setup commonly mentioned : cyrenaica ( east ) ; fezzan ( south ) ; and tripolitania ( the west ) . cyrenaica is qaddafi-free , tripolitania is not , and fezzan did not fully join a revolution .
they propose tax cuts equal to 5 % of gdp in every country in eurozone countries , financed by very long-term public debt , all of which the ecb should buy . they argue that ecb quantitative easing alone with no fiscal relaxation would be ineffective . giavazzi and tabellini ’s proposal may entail an overly large stimulus . but they also emphasize the crucial question : how will quantitative easing stimulate the economy ? the bank of england has presented qe as a purely monetary policy tool that sustains economic growth in the face of necessary , desirable fiscal consolidation .
never mind that eye-popping growth projections , by representative paul ryan ’s budget plan , are utterly implausible ; these projections matter politically , for , without them , the full sting of ryan ’s proposed medicare cuts would readily become manifest . standard & poor ’s has received some justified criticism of the analysis behind his recent decision to downgrade american government debt ; after all , there has been little economic news to explain the move ’s timing . but s & p ’s assessment of the policy situation is at its target : by creating dysfunctional paralysis at the heart of the government , the tea party has shown its willingness to impose dramatic costs on the broader economy , as well as to guarantee significantly slower growth . confrontation and brinkmanship have become america ’s new watchwords of american politics , even when an american administration ’s legal capacity to pay its debts is on the line , owing to tea party ideological rigidity . and the tone of political debate , not surprisingly , has become much nastier .
trump , for his part , accepted xi ’s invitation to visit china early on . at the us trade organization , trump and xi agreed to a 100-day plan for a discussion on reducing america ’s trade deficit with china . moreover , the us embraced china ’s proposal to revamp the framework for bilateral engagement by creating a us-china comprehensive dialogue consisting of four sub-dialogues : diplomacy and security , economic issues , law enforcement , and cyber-security , and social and cultural issues . an understanding between xi and trump reflected a sober acknowledgement of both domestic and international risks to their countries . both have seemed to recognize that a stable us-china relationship is essential to enable the focus of their respective challenges .
the uae and qatar have already instituted compulsory military service for adult males . and kuwait is considering following in jordan ’s footsteps by re-introducing conscription , which has already been occurring in most sunni ( as well as in iran ) . against this backdrop , efforts to tame deep-seated sunni-shia rivalries ( by , for example , improving ties between saudi arabia and iran ) should not , however undoubtedly important , take priority over a strategy to address sectarianism plagols a sunni belt . that strategy must center on federalism . for example , this has been introduced in somalia , when the north-south rift emerged , it probably would not end up as a failed state .
the left has not recognized the strict political issue in the palestinian elections ; it is the expression of ongoing kulturkampf in an ethnically kaleidoscopic society . israeli elections are , in some ways , in a tribal affair ; people vote based on memories ; insults , religious sensibilities , and group grievances . the israeli right ’s current political dominance feeds the widespread yearning for jewish roots , deep-seated fears for arabs , and an uncompromising distrust in the “ world , ” the so-called international community , with which jews have centuries-old disputes . the left ’s yearning for peace is seen as naive , if not exercise in political lunacy ( and , in either case , unpardonable betrayal of jewish identity ) . netanyahu positioned himself as a magnet for fear and complexes of a widely aggrieved array of voters , including russian immigrants , orthodox jews , the majority traditionalist israelis , and religious settlers .
furthermore , among the new job opportunities created in fields like education and health care , where women have traditionally thrived , many of them are in the fields that will create . mgi ’s research shows that over the next 10-15 years , more than 100 million jobs could be created as health care and education needs to grow . it remains unclear , though , exactly how automation will affect the employment of women . but there can be no doubt that protecting – and even enhancing – women ’s job and income prospects will require upgrading skills , so that they can seize on the new and changing opportunities created by a ongoing digital revolution . women ’s success in e-commerce attests to the power of digital technologies to levels that of the playing field in the economic sectors of individual women , their communities , and societies , with the world economy .
russia conquered muslim territories in the volga-ural areas , the caucasus and central asia , and brutally suppressed any opposition at all . after loyalty , however , the government adopted an even more pragmatic policy . until the 1800s , sedentary muslim elites co-opted into imperial aristocracy only as they were in the 20th century , national communist elites were absorbed into soviet nomenclatura 's . indeed , russia 's contacts with the muslim world go backward to thousands of , rooted in a tradition of tolerance . with a few short-lived exceptions , russia 's imperial governments did not support orthodox evangelism .
hong kong has experienced unprecedented 17 weeks of mostly peaceful demonstrations ( occasional episodes of violence have attracted undue media attention ) . the trigger was a proposed extradition law that many feared would extend the mainland ’s reach into hong kong ’s judicial scheme . the lack of any plan to bring together diverse protest groups and the hong kong government has emerged as a source of growing concern . at least two things would have to do such a plan . first , all parties ( including china ’s central government in this case ) need to recommit to the “ one country , two systems ” framework .
to address this distortion head , and to ensure clarity on how funds are allocated , the egf should focus its tight funds on two simple , proactive labor-market programs : wage insurance and the upward mobility allowance . wage insurance could offer workers whose pay was cut after displacement compensation for up to two years , amounting to half of the difference between old and new wage levels . the mobility allowance could offer those moving for new work a lump-sum payment of two months ’ gross wages in previous jobs , or four months ’ paying for cross-border moves . the very simplicity of that scheme is likely to ensure high visibility and reasonable take-up rates . at the same time , downside to such an focused approach is obvious : the margin of eu choices for eu members on how egf funds are to be spent in their respective countries would be minimal .
asia ’s share stood at 28 % ( after that of japan ) . but kharas ’s projections suggest that the world ’s nearly two-thirds middle class will account for asia by 2030 . in other words , asia will displace not just the west , but even other emerging regions . this is a true business opportunity ; there is no real business opportunity . of course , the rise of asia ’s middle class is not the only change that we should expect .
populist parties , both in the far right and on the far left , are gaining electoral traction . some , such as france ’s national front , oppose their country ’s euro membership ; others , such as podemos in spain , do not . nonetheless , the challenge that these new parties pose to europe could prove to be extraordinarily disruptive . a greek exit from europe , together with financial and policy turmoil inside greece , would be perceived as a main defeat for european integration – particularly after the laborious efforts made to hold the monetary union together and , with it , the european dream . such an outcome would become even disheartening , given the tragic terrorist attacks in paris , and , after the unity marches in france and across the continent , have rekindled a long fading sense of european solidarity .
taken together , all of these shortcomings cast serious doubt on the eu ’s claim to take the lead in a debate over a fundamental reshaping of global economic governance . european governments repeat the mantra of “ effective multilateralism , ” but seem to have no comprehensive strategy for translating this into a coherent politics . indeed , when europeans come to mind reforming global governance , they restrict themselves to the sheer numbers of seats and voting weights within the international bodies . european governments are only reluctantly accepting the need to scale back their over-representation on multilateral bodies , recognizing that it undermines rather than enhances the eu ’s overall leverage by pressuring other powers to separate arrangements in the process . but , while deliberation takes hold on how much europe should retreat from its historical domination of the multilateral bodies , it has little vision beyond that .
são paulo – decades-old legal fights between consumer and financial institutions over the impact of brazil ’s economic policies in the 1980s and 1990s are approaching an all-time conclusion . in december , lawyers who were representing claimants submitted to brazil ’s supreme federal court with a request to ratify a settlement reached by the banks . if the court approves of the deal to the us , the settlement would have put billions of reals to the pockets of savers . but more than one long-awaited payday for some one million claimants , court-ordered restitution would also mark the formal end of brazil ’s seemingly endless war on hyperinflation . during the late 1980s and early 1990s , the brazilian government struggled , in turn , to stabilize the country ’s economy and currency .
today , women dominate african agriculture , the continent ’s most important industrial sector . but this has not translated into greater control of finance . one measures of this deficiency are borrowing rates ; in east africa , where my organization works , women borrow 13 % less money for farm-related activities than their men do . illiteracy , limited land ownership , and restrictions on agency mobility and mobility to reduce access to rural women to farm finance . these barriers had a dramatic effect on social and economic progress .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the modi administration ’s supporters tout a slew of new repressive legislation – including the criminalization of talaq-e-biddat , a muslim practices for “ instant divorce ” – as a display of “ decision ” depicteness .
liquidity injections and low interest rates have microeconomic effects that received little attention : lower the cost of capital relative to the cost of labor , which causes relative to decline in demand for labor . this makes the problem of unemployment very likely to be amplified ; surely it is not mitigating it . one solution is to channel part of liquidity toward countering this factor-cost asymmetry . thus , for every $ 100 of new liquidity , the us could use $ 60 to buy assets , leaving other firms with a marginal job-creation subsidy , which might be especially efficient in economies with flexible labor markets enabling short-term hiring . even if the us offered employment subsidies only for , say , one year , firms would be tempted to use more labor during this time .
what is clear is that the experience of the countries that have implemented the treaty has not been particularly positive unless those countries have high tolerance for bureaucratic regulatory regimes that stifle innovation and development in the name of lofty aspirations . the seed treaty is cut from the same anti-capitalist , anti-science , anti-innovation ( cbd ) convention . it also mirrors flagrantly unscientific , anti-genetic-engineering cartagena protocol on biosafety to a cbd . and it has done a lot in common with the nagoya-kuala lumpur additional protocol on accountability and redress to the cartagena protocol – yet another anti-genetic-engineering screed , which accomplishes little other than frighten potential entrepreneurs from agricultural biotechnology . it is overwrought , confusing , and sophisticated – in short , inimical to innovations that could benefit the world ’s poor .
“ there is , ” he wrote in an echo of today ’s debates about globalization , “ a certain situation capitalized capitalized by disorganized economies in which the higher culture does not win but rather loses in existential struggles with lower cultures . ” at the center – beleaguered by anti-global reactions from the left and the right – the liberal business elite viewed the product of economic opening , or as wholly beneficial , globalization as well . instead of both the left and the right , there has thus been the triple divide between anti-globalization conservatives , pro-globalization liberals and a re-distributionist leftists . when the extremes of the political spectrum become radicalized , because in the interwar period they did – the anti-international right-left left left , under fascism – democratic politics became paralyzed . in much of the post-1945 period , those divisions disappeared as the right and left fought battles for redistribution within national economies .
the chinese leadership ’s penchant for secretiveness is proverbial . but the veil that exists over how omnipotent parties makes major choices seems to be picked up somewhat , owing to the volume of unique materials about behind-the-scenes events that surrounds the infamous tiananmen square massacre of 1989 . the material contained in that book that i brought out of china in deciding to make public , consists of hundreds of documents involving minutes and transcripts of meetings at which the people ’s republic ’s most important leaders are speculating on how to manage the tiananmen demonstrations ; key speeches ; notes about crucial telephone conversations among leaders ; classified reports of security agencies ; and sent dispatches from police and military . took as the whole these documents provide a rare glimpse into china ’s modus operandi . like the witness and participant in tiananmen events , and as someone with access to the historical archive , i felt my responsibility to publish this record of the choices that lay behind what happened .
czechoslovakia , for example , became dreary , repressive , joyless place in the 1970s , where mediocre party hacks set their tone and creativity was stifled under the blanket of enforced conformism . rock and roll had been seen as a noxious form of capitalist decadence . a local rock band named plastic people of the universe performing in english was arrested in the late 1970s on “ organized disturbance of the peace . ” recordings by a rolling stones and other western groups banned . and yet records were smuggled by czechoslovakia and other eastern european countries , where they were treasured by young rock fans , including dissident playwright václav havel , who would later have been the country ’s president .
debt-ceiling absolutists grossly underestimated the massive adjustment costs of a self-perpetuating “ sudden stop ” in debt finance . that cost is precisely one reason why perfectly indebted countries such as greece face massive social and economic displacement when financial markets lose confidence and capital flows abruptly dry up . there is an appealing logic , of course , to say that governments ought to have to balance their budgets just like those of the us ; unfortunately , it is n’t as straightforward as this is . typically , governments have myriad of ongoing spending commitments related to basic services like the national defense , infrastructure projects , education , and health care , not to mention retirees . no government can simply walk off these responsibilities overnight .
ironically , that perception brings to israel some rather unlikely partners . president hosni mubarak , for his part , claims that shiites are “ always loyal to iran , ” while king abdullah of jordan coined the axiom of a surging “ shiite crescent . ” this “ rise of shiites ” and the resulting sunni divide are alleged to be creating an increasingly widening chasm within the region . while this perception might convince at first glance , it is ultimately based on generalizations that reveal more about its advocates , than actual realities on the ground . take iraq , where the looming “ shia crescent ” is often blamed for much turmoil .
making matters worse , the consultancy mackenzie finds that the renewables boom translated into only 2 % of global energy demand . as matters stand , coal , oil , and gas could still deliver 85 % of their primary energy by 2040 , down only slightly from 90 % today . to complete the transition away from fossil fuels , this will require drilling down to the heart of the global economy . what is not helping is that the us $ 1 billion in financing china funneled at least $ 1 billion in “ green ” funding to coal-related projects in the first half of this year . companies can not keep producing the engines of oil , gas , and internal combustion while shifting gradually to cleaner technologies ; they are need clean disruption .
furthermore , with the u.s. in support , colombia ’s armed forces have grown stronger , owing to modernization in military equipment and doctrine , the rise of soldiers , and improved vocational training . as a consequence , armed conflict is becoming increasingly costly to insurgent forces . indeed , unlike in 2002 , when the farc was able to make impossible demands on the government , today ’s environment favors statehood , forcing the rebels to keep their demands realistic . the farc seems unlikely to stage a media spectacle at meetings in norway and cuba . the agenda will focus on ending the conflict without endless debate over theoretical or doctrinaire questions .
yes , this is a volatile series of data , because it rises and collapses with the usual course of events . but it is also another area where obama has set the bar high during his two conditions . most positive is that he can say about trump ’s first year in us economic policymaking that is not delivering on his campaign promise to disturb trade . the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) remains untouched because will trade relations with china , and other major us partners . the administration has imposed tariffs on solar panels and washing machines on the us , but these are small relative to the us economy ’s size .
all these books are variations of zion ’s protocols first made in 1903 , which the japanese came across after defeating czar czar general ’s army in 1905 . the chinese picked up too many modern western ideas . perhaps that is how the jewish conspiracy theories passed , like that of japan . but southeast asians are no immune to this kind of nonsense . malaysia ’s former prime minister , mahathir bin mohammed , has argued , “ the jews rule the world by proxy . ”
it need not just closer economic ties , but also closer political ties . those running a strong emergency financing mechanism will have to be held forcefully accountable . they will have to answer to the strong european parliament . german chancellor angela merkel ’s constituents hate bailouts , because they know they are going to be bailing in . they oppose anything that smacks of political integration europe will be .
new york – striving to revive the world economies , while simultaneously reacting to the global climate crisis , has raised knotty questions : are statistics giving us the right “ signals ” about what to do ? in our performance-focused world , measurement issues have taken on heightened significance : what we measure affects what we do . if we have poor measures , what we strive to do ( say , to raise gdp ) may indeed be contributing to deteriorating living standards . we may also be confronted with false choices , seeing trade-offs between output and the environmental protection that do not exist . a better measure of economic performance , by contrast , might show that steps taken to improve the environment are good for the economy .
bangkok – a friend recently asked a seemingly naïve question : “ what is money ? how do i know that i could trust that it is worth what it says worthwhile ? . ” “ we learn in introductory economics that money is a medium of exchange . but why are we accepted that ? banknotes are simply pieces of paper with several attached .
of course , the notion that abolishing borders within europe holds great symbolic significance and appeal . but sometimes even sacred cows need to be slaughtered . with the refugee crisis turning schengen into an existential menace to the eu ’s credibility as a collective entity and its nation-states ’ capacity to sustain order and the rule of law , that time is now . when it was first created in 1985 , schengen area included just five countries ( belgium , france , luxembourg , the netherlands , and western germany ) . since ballooned to include 22 of the 28 member countries of the eu – with four of those left out ( bulgaria , croatia , cyprus , and romania ) due to joining the eu in the future – plus four non-eu member countries ( norway , iceland , switzerland , switzerland , switzerland , and liechtenstein ) .
putin is no doubt now likely to behave like peacemaker . he is not interested in reinforcing the strength of his kremlin aides , too . he also realizes that big business is crucially important for russia ’s modernization . he simply wants the oligarchs to stick with their sphere of activity and to abandon politics . but the problem wo n’t go far away .
the danger now is that the political uncertainty in germany , france , italy , and the uk will forge the opening for the populists , as well as self-declared “ illiberal ” democrats such as hungarian prime minister viktor orbán ’s government , to build more walls ( physically as with metaphorically ) and mobilize the ghosts of nationalism . moreover , europe ’s external environment has become more dangerous . while the world ’s attention currently has fixed the risk of an escalating sino-american trade war , it is impossible to ignore the threat of an equally destructive transatlantic conflict . trump seems genuinely to believe that german cars on new york streets pose a threat to us national security . should he wake up one morning to decide to impose heavy import tariffs on europe ’s cars , things could get extremely ugly , extremely fast .
there is a trade-off between competition and stability , and the risk of the euro . indeed , greater competitive pressure may amplify the fragility of banks ’ balance sheets , forcing investors to become more prone toward panics . it can also erode the institutional charter ’s value . a bank with thin margins and limited liability has little to lose , and will tend to gamble on – a tendency that is aggravated by deposit insurance and too-big-to-fail policies . the result will be more risk-bearing incentives .
vaccines have already eradicated smallpox and dramatically reduced child deaths and illnesses linked to measles , diphtheria , tetanus , and tetanus . yet , sadly , a child still dies every 20 seconds from diseases like pneumonia , which can be preventable . most live in poor and remote communities , who still lack the access to basic vaccines that are universally available in better-off countries . this is one reason why a child born in a high-income country is 18 times less likely than a child born in a low-income country to die before they reach the age of five . fortunately , the world is taking action .
as the pioneering chilean psychologist jean piaget has shown , children in early stages of development will go through a phase of egocentrism : they are naturally focused on their own needs . an infant might snatch another toy child , break it , and then deny that she has done so . rather than admit breaking the rules , they lie to reconcile inconsistency . to child minds , they are not at all misguided ; the world , in particular , is simply misinformed . and because the infant believes that everyone operates under his particular definitions of right and wrong , he can not comprehend that someone else might see things differently .
it is this distinction , more than anything else , that sets the two economies apart . what is possible is india ’s effort to close the gap ? its biggest shortcoming is its lack of highways , bridges and ports , and other infrastructure to the contrary , where the contrast with china is anything but stunning . unless your products can be made to the global economy , one can not conquer it . over the last five years , china has multiplied its highways system five-fold .
the critical thought is increasingly dismissed as an elitist endeavor , while unaccountable social media , “ fake news , ” and “ alternative facts ” dominate public discourse . in an environment of ignorance , populist politicians are making willing prey to those who feel ignored . but because those politicians have become so appealing to such numbers , they no less easily swayed voters , they must be scrutinized . the question is whether a brand of politics that threatens liberal democracy can , too , be retrished to the rescue . there are two kinds of populists today : exploitative , and enlightened .
a recent feature that stands out over this period of historically slow productivity growth is weak demand . we know from the corporate-decision-makers that demand is crucial to investment . for example , last year , an mgi survey conducted found that 47 % of firms increasing their investment-investment budgets went so far as a result of a surge in demand or demand expectations . across industries , the slow recovery in demand after the financial crisis was crucial to holding back investment . the crisis heightened uncertainty about future direction in consumer and investment demand , and the us is not the answer to the slowdown in the us economy ’s demand shortfall .
here is a country that has long cherished its “ exceptionalism ” from normal rules of market economics , foggy view that rejects both central planning and free markets , and argues that it can offer a well balanced middle ground . nor do the french care that they were never able to articulate a vision about a “ third way , ” because they are not deeply convinced that the state has a key role to play in steering markets to defend “ higher ” values from single-minded pursuit of materialism . this view , propagated since the end of world war ii by quasi-marxist intelligentsia , is so ingrained that it is not even bothered by the french to understand how the markets operate . they view economics as an ideological battleground where all views can be entertained without being confronted with reasoning , much less with facts . yet facts have hit hard .
and health care ( medicare ) , which has already consume half the american federal budget in 1965 ; up from one-sixth in 1965 ; and these outlays relative to gdp are projected to be more than double by 2040 . with no change to be sure , the programs ’ “ trust fund ” balances are bound to be depleted until the 2030s . avoiding this outcome will require us policymakers to constrain the growth of entitlement spending and boost support for middle-income individuals . while the social security and medicare remain important to ensuring retirement well-being , their role must be updated to suit today ’s needs . ensuring , for example , that no one who has worked for 30 or more years will live in poverty in older age needs a greater minimum benefit to low-income workers , with more affluent seniors seeing fewer benefits growth over the past time .
new york – president george w. bush has rightly called pakistan ’s recent national and provincial elections the “ victory for [ its ] people . ” but , even as he has spoken those words , his administration has been working behind scenes to subvert pakistan ’s will by attempting to dictate the composition of its next coalition government and prop up the election ’s great loser , president pervez musharraf . bush plays the dangerous game , risking the breakdown of pakistan ’s political process to its own legacy . millions of pakistanis have delivered a clear message at the polls . collectively , they voted against musharraf and religious extremists , and in favor of democracy , the rule of law , and good governance .
three of all hiv-positive people still are not receiving antiretroviral therapy . moreover , the long-term treatment is not the same as the cure , and no public-health tool ( in addition to clean drinking water ) has ever matched preventive force in the vaccine . hiv is an exceedingly complex virus ; it is a vaccine with the potential to spread it to death . it mutates fast within an individual , and between geographic locations , setting latent reservoirs within cell cells , thereby making it possible to emerge and replicate months or even years later in time . it evades the immune system , so the body ’s natural ability to fight or clear it is limited .
according to this argument , academic scientists should either publish their research openly or leave a university before pursuing commercial interests . similarly , the us universities that employ them should abandon product development to incumbent societies . but the best way to remember is that the university has been charged with subverting its own ideals and social roles since time immemorial , still what in the past initially looked to many such conflicts of interest often came later as a confluence of purpose . during the late 19 th century , for example , as u.s. universities began research at the heart of the academic mission , they were accused of forsaking their traditional pedagogical role . many professors argued that the demands of research would make teaching commitments impossible to fulfill .
brussels – throughout the crisis period , the behavior of the european central bank ( ecb ) has been conditioned on a tension between what it can and what it can do . the ecb is the only institution in the european union to provide unlimited funding for governments ; but its governing statute forbids government bailouts . nonetheless , the ecb has provided large sums of liquidity to the financial system , indirectly softening upward pressure on government debt refinancing . for 18 months it has now been buying up government bonds – worth more than € 200 trillion ( $ 254 billion ) – on secondary markets under its securities market program . moreover , it has provided loans to the banking sector , recently launching a three-year refinancing operation that generated demand from eurozone banks at € 489 billion .
america , after all , would face such problems even if it did not simultaneously confront a financial crisis . america ’s economy had super-charged over-leveraging ; now comes the painful process of deleveraging . over-leveraging , combined with bad lending and risky derivatives , has left the credit markets freeze . after all , when banks have no inklings about their own balance sheets , they are not about to trust others ’ . ampnbsp ; the bush administration saw no trouble coming , denied that they were problems when they arrived , then minimized their significance , and finally panicked .
vietnam and south korea offer inspiring examples from countries that transformed their education systems within a generation . as south korean education minister and commission member lee ju-ho noted during our visit , teaching young people to think critically takes time , but the results can have powerful knock-on effects for a country ’s knowledge economy . realizing these benefits , myanmar has put its education at the heart of its reform agenda . one priority – toward enhancing inclusivity – is already underway . for example , the government is currently working to encourage instruction in more local languages – more than 100 are spoken in myanmar – in rural areas .
but what if compensation assumed by economists in theory does n’t happen ? what if market-fundamentalist politics specifically forbids income redistribution or regional , industrial , and education subsidies that could compensate those who suffer from free-trade and labor-market “ flexibility ” ? in that case , pareto optimality is not socially optimal . instead , policies that intensify the competition , whether on trade , labor markets , or domestic production may prove socially destructive , politically explosive . this highlights yet another reason for economic-policy failure since 2007 .
madrid – economic globalization , combined with a rebalancing of power between the world ’s north and south , has forced developing countries , and many companies within them , key global economic actors . this provides a new rationale for strengthening the international framework to protect foreign investment . once upon a time , global foreign direct investment flowed from only a few sources : europe ’s traditionally affluent states , north america , and japan . but cross-border investment by countries such as brazil , india , and china is flowing not just to the other emerging and transition economies , but also to the “ old ” fdi-exporting states . these changes have increased the complexity of the international investment regime and should broaden interest in developing a more effective investment-protection framework .
worries about globalization and the computer revolution eventually boil down to the same thing , because it is the most consequence of globalization in the new information technology . computers and the internet have made this information possible almost costlessly , and they have done business across cultures and continents . the worry is that information technology is now on the bend of the “ hockey stick ” curve , where it would suddenly take off at much greater speeds than at the time . the resulting changes will not all be welcome economically . hockey stick curves frequently occur in nature , and we are now developing in the world .
copenhagen – amid a growing wave of concern over climate change , many countries – including brazil , australia , the united states , and the united kingdom – passed laws in the 2000 ’s outlawing , or severely limiting access to incandescent light light bulbs . the intent was understandable : if everyone in the world exchanged the most light bulbs for energy-efficient compact fluorescent light bulbs ( cfls ) , we could save 3.5 % of all electricity or 1 % of our co2 emissions . the current attempt by republicans at the american congress to roll back the american effort to ban incandescent light bulbs has revived this discussion . many contend that the agenda is being propelled by knucking-dragging climate-change deniers . but it is worth taking on to look at the premise that banning things is the smartest way to address global warming .
this approach limits gains from trade . the inter-american development bank , for example , reports that the benefits from trade from latin america ’s 33 small regional trade agreements were meager . the key to boosting those gains , the adb estimates , is to adopt a new strategy that expands access across and outside markets . this suggests that for the uk , mega-regional trade agreements – which provide access to multiple markets but involve lower fiscal and regulatory integration levels than the eu does – are the best way forward . after all , it is this approach that would enable uk firms to position themselves to well-developed and integrated supply chains , serving much larger markets than those that a bilateral agreement would grant them access .
growth patterns that systematically exclude subgroups founder on the loss of political and social cohesion and ultimately ultimately , on the losers of the us strategy of supportive policies . income inequality , on the other hand , is not too extreme , and that does not emerge in the face of corruption or privileged access to markets is understood and embraced . providing high-quality basic services , like education and health care , is perceived as crucial to equality of opportunity and intergenerational mobility . against this background , one can judge today ’s growth patterns in the global economy , and its various parts . for starters , public-sector investment is broadly below levels necessary to restore and sustain growth , owing partly to fiscal constraints in the over-indebted countries .
it is important for starters to recognize the need for a clear line before extremist parties even arise . if it is to be upheld , it must not appear ad hoc or arbitrary . criteria for bans should thus be spelled out . one criterion that seems universally accepted is party use , encouragement , or at least condoning the violence – as has apparently been the case with golden dawn ’s role in attacking immigrants in athens . there is less consensus on parties that incite hatred and are committed to destroying core democratic principles – in particular , because much extremist parties in europe go from their way to emphasize that they are not against democracy ; on the contrary , they are fighting for the " people . "
for them , patriotism means being harder-headed in the name of protecting the national interest , and embracing more democratic policies that help the working masses , rather than jet-setting fat cats . the other part of this argument – that ordinary people ’s national interest has become subordinated to those of the elite – must become listened and responded to . a democracy in which a majority feels neglected or exploited is unsustainable . either government or the entire system will be overturned . elected officials clearly need to find answers to high unemployment and falling living standards .
more important , wealth and consumption in china closely related to real-estate values , rather than equity values . finally , the renminbi ’s recent decline against the dollar has amounted to just 2.5 % , from cn ¥ 6.2 to cn ¥ 6.35 – far below the double-digit declines by the japanese yen , the euro , and the british pound . so , on an overall trade-weighted basis , the renminbi is significantly higher relative to those with which it competes . even more relevant , the decline in the renminbi , and other currencies , in the last year , experienced very modest effects on american import prices because the chinese and other exporters price their goods in dollars , rather than adjusting them when exchange-rate changes . while official american data show overall import prices down 11 % over the next 12 months or so through august , that is almost completely attributable to lower energy costs .
many developing countries spend much of the time on stable , no-equilibrium growth rates , and then shift into a more positive one . nowhere is this automatic . in all cases , with whom i am familiar , effective leadership has been the catalyst . so , while we can expect a multi-year process of rebalancing and closing the gap between real , potential growth , exactly how long it will take will depend on policy choices and the speed of structural adjustment . in southern europe , for example , the process will take longer to do , because there are more missing components of recovery in those countries .
finally , the eu should be working to france ’s belarus . like spain in spain in the dictator ’s final years , political opening is unlikely . but the belarusian economic model can not survive , with the trade deficit forecast to be above $ 7 trillion ( 14 % of gdp ) this year . belarus can not borrow enough to cover it . as with spain under franco , belarus ’s economy will change sooner than lukashenka does , laying the foundation for rapid evolution once gone .
these countries have exceptionally diverse economic and social conditions , very different levels of wealth . south koreans , for example , now enjoy the standard of living similar to that in the european union , making many analysts ’ persistent categorization of south korea an “ emerging economy ” all the more baffling . meanwhile , mexico ’s and turkey ’s levels of wealth have nowhere to come anywhere near that south korea , and yet are significantly wealthier than in the n-11 ’s , some remain among the world ’s poorest countries . at the same time , asian n-11 countries , such as the philippines and vietnam , have grown markedly since 2005 , with mexico ’s performance somewhat disappointing , making egypt even more so . collectively , the n-11 comprises some 1.5 billion people , and its current nominal gdp at around $ 6.5 trillion – a sum that is only one in the world .
for the first time since world war i , europeans find themselves without a notable ally or partner . far from an aberration , trump ’s trade wars and betrayal of allies represents a new norm for the rules-based world order . multilateralism , human rights , and respect for international law are now under threat everywhere , owing to the demagogic attacks on liberal-democratic principles and the trump administration ’s open support for authoritarians . on both sides of the atlantic , populist policymakers regularly mock the idea of an alliance based on shared values , whereby the us , china , and russia continue to expand their spheres of influence unchecked . turkey ’s recent invasion of northern syria , thanks to the betrayal of the kurds who have spearheaded the fight against the islamic nation-state ( isis ) , has also undercut eu interests .
eliminating certain 70 million jobs , and hence taxpayers , would obviously be catastrophic for the european economy . leading economists such as germany ’s klaus regling who heads the european stability mechanism , the eurozone ’s bailout fund , calculated a decade ago that the eu ’s shrinking workforce was set to impose a severe limit on economic growth . he forecast that the labor shortages create a ceiling that restricts annual gdp growth to 1.8 % from now until 2030 and just 1.3 % from then to 2050 . comparatively few europeans seem to be challenging the moral obligation to accept asylum seekers , fleeing syria ’s civil war or political oppression elsewhere . whether or not public sentiment changes in the wake of the attacks in paris , economic migrants are viewed as a more negative response .
at last count , some 258 million migrants worldwide were registered , with 22.5 million registered as refugees by the un refugee agency . these numbers will dwarf whether even the most modest climate-related predictions are borne . according to the international organization for migration , the eu could displace climate change as many as one billion people by 2050 . and yet no international climate-induced migration treaty – a gap that now needs to be addressed . not since 1951 have international standards for the protection of refugees received so much attention in the us .
lukyanivska prison , kyiv – the point is that in the foxhole , there are no atheists . here , after my show trial , and four months in a cell , i have discovered that there are no atheists in jail either . when , despite unbearable pain , you interrogate – including , in your cell – for dozens of hours with no interruption , and an authoritarian regime ’s entire system of coercion , including his news media attempts to discredit and destroy the once and for all , prayer becomes one of the only intimate , trusting , and reassuring conversation that one can have . god , one realizes , is one of only friend and only available family , because – deprived of even access to a trusted priest – there is no one else to confide one ’s worries and hopes . in this age of love and family , loneliness in a prison cell become almost unbearable .
but , beyond the reduction in aid , donors may also make it more difficult for countries to borrow to repay the funds they owe ( this is not restricted to education loans ) . and some donors – such as france , germany , and the european investment bank , as well – are lobbying the oecd development assistance committee to count unsubsidized loans as official development assistance ( oda ) to enable them to meet their oda targets . this reverses the trend over the last few decades toward grant-based financing , especially for basic education . but education , a crucial public good , should not be left behind to pursue non-grant-based assistance . loan buy-downs can help to keep the education sector “ competitive , ” and could show a mechanism to leverage the extra resources available for education for which capital-strapped countries might not be willing to borrow otherwise .
ultimately , the enhanced economic activity that development generates is the only way to reduce inequalities , especially amid rapid demographic growth : it is easier to work on the fairer distribution of a growing pie than shrinking one . moreover , rapidly paced but ill-distributed economic growth can be coupled with programs that focus on those left behind , thereby mitigating grievances . it is no coincidence that much of kenya ’s current violence occurs in the slums of its great cities . in fact , there has been more attention to the country ’s most glaring inequalities in access to water , shelter , or jobs , that population could not have elected violence as an instrument of change . let us draw the right lessons from kenya : socio-economic progress remains , in many words , our best tool to prevent conflict from recurring in the long run .
water supply is also highly variable across regions , and within countries , with floods and droughts occurring at irregular times . one new factor influencing supply of water is the rise in global temperature , with the global rate of water now occurring . although we are not certain about the exact effects , many scientists believe that total annual precipitation will increase in absolute terms , but that its seasonality and frequency of extremes may also rise . this would make it more difficult to exploit the existing supply infrastructure of dams , reservoirs , treatment systems , and pipelines without major modifications . from the writings of early modern commentators on socio-economic growth drivers and declining growth – adam smith , edward gibbon , thomas malthus , david ricardo , and karl marx – we are seeing that concern about exhausting sources is not new .
qaddafi ’s armed forces were chosen based on loyalty and ethnic affiliation rather than any concept of merit , so the temptation to strip everyone to their underwear and send them home ( to describe what might be the most humane of outcomes ) might be great . but , arguably , the most important lesson learned in iraq was that of the nearly catastrophic decision to decommission saddam ’s army without pay or pension . that move lay at the root of many of iraq ’s subsequent security problems . libya is fortunate is some ways to do . the oil sector appears to be relatively untouched , and thus should contribute relatively soon to government revenues .
even aside from the insecurity of the new property rights , the gains in privatization often seem shaky at best . the problem lies in the assumption that most of the state enterprises have value , at best . even in the more favorable conditions prevailing in the west , large ( and numerous private ) companies often need to be broken up , restructured , merged , or shut down . in former communist countries , many ( sometimes the majority ) big enterprises were misbegotten from the start . in the past years of communism 's investment almost totally guided self-serving enterprise bureaucracies .
yet 58 % of africans lack access to electricity , as do many in the developing world . a new international initiative , convened by united nations electrification roadmap , has grown out of un secretary-general ban ki-moon ’s focus on the importance of energy supplies to achieve the mdgs , and has been officially launched at the rio +20 conference on sustainable development ( sdgs ) in june 2012 . as discussions have shown , such issues are receiving increased international attention and funding from governments , business , non-governmental organizations , and development finance bodies . eskom ’s role is one of leadership and encouragement . we electrified more than four million households through focused efforts over a brief period – an effort that featured prominently in discussions held by the un secretary-general ’s advisory council on sustainable energy and attracted an interest from other developing countries .
the united nations medium fertility scenario projects that the world ’s population will rise from seven billion today to ten billion by 2050 . indeed , nigeria ’s population could rise from 123 million in 2000 to 440 million by 2050 , whereas yemen ’s might grow from 18 million to 42 million . high fertility rates in many countries are partly the consequence of low incomes . but causation also runs the other path . high fertility rates stymie economic-growth prospects , because excessively rapid population growth makes it impossible to accumulate per capita stocks of physical and human capital at a pace required to drive rapid revenue gains .
all of the ingredients of a catastrophic outcome have been there . fast forward to the present : the economy is growing at a robust 4.2 % rate , led by double-digit growth in agriculture , mining , manufactures , energy , tourism , and business services . at a time when emerging-market economies as diverse as argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa are confronting plummeting currencies and rising interest rates , albania has its lowest interest rates and strengthening the currency . now it has the lowest sovereign spread to any country in its credit-rating class , indicating that markets think markets have been asleep at the wheel . once north korea under communist dictator enver hoxha , albania ’s per capita income level now stands at 25 % that of germany .
conversely , the us must be prepared to lead international efforts to impose severe consequences on any party that plunges the country back into war . peace and security in darfur should be an essential benchmark for normalcy in us-sudan relations . the obama administration should hold firm on this through the coming rounds of negotiation , and it should appoint a high-level official to help coordinate us policy on darfur to ensure the same level of north-south efforts that peace effort receives . what is needed now is political will – and not only in the us – to sustain this diplomacy . the european union , and sudan ’s neighbors – in particular , egypt , ethiopia , kenya , and uganda – will also have a robust , robust role to play .
but new debt is nothing but a form of dope , reducing the pressure to adopt the painful measures that improve the competitiveness of the capacity to increase the economy . this renewed fall in debt discipline mirrors the socialization of potential bankruptcy costs among all eurozone countries by way of the joint-liability mechanisms of the eu . it is this de facto debt mutualization that prompted lenders to accept lower interest rates , and only by a smaller interest rate that allowed renzi , samaras , valls , and others in order to distance themselves from austerity policies . there is nothing surprising about this : when a decision-maker can claim the full credit of policy ’s benefits and collectivize costs , he will pursue policies sooner , more quickly , and far more than he otherwise would have to shoulder the cost , on the other hand . what is remarkable is how matter-of-factly european transgressors succeed in cloaking themselves with the mantle of a new social breakthrough .
and why has the world not taken note in this regard ? as complex as indonesia ’s itself , the story is one leading expert in indonesia . one leading expert on indonesia , benedict anderson , roots indonesia ’s nature in its core javanese culture , especially the wengyang religious tradition . according to anderson , “ in contrast to the great religions of the near east … the religion of wayang has no prophet ; nor does the bible , any redeemer . … the endless variety and sharp individuality of its dramatis personae indicate that wayang reflects the variegation of human life as it is , in its view , felt by javanese … . ” in short , javanese culture helps indonesia manage the many diverse voices that a fledgling democracy throws .
joining the mediterranean region as a critical meeting point – an arena of political , economic , and energy cooperation – is critical . the eu ’s most valuable toolkit is its signature in this respect , nobel prize-winning model for multilateral dialogue and soft power . next door , too , russia must respond to new vulnerabilities stemming from changing global conditions . to this end , the kremlin continues to support syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , maintain a firm aversion to military intervention and seeks to defend its strategic interests , including its naval base in the syrian city of tartus . that stance has translated most obviously into repeated vetoes by un security council resolutions aimed at ending a conflict that has already produced tens of thousands of casualties .
cairo – last week ’s visit to egypt by saudi arabia ’s king salman resulted in 22 agreements , including a $ 22 billion oil deal to prop up egypt ’s moribund economy . yet lavish aid came at a price : egypt was forced to relinquish its two red sea islands ceded to it by saudi arabia in 1950 . the move exposed the egyptian leadership narrative that the country remains a major regional power as a lie . indeed , egypt can not even manage the domestic challenges posed by its rapidly growing population , dependent on unaffordable subsidies – a situation that jihadists exploiting with much success . how has the country achieved this point ?
in an analogous vein , the #bringbackourgirls campaign began online following the renowned nigerian playwright wole chon inka ’s world book day of speech in which he called on jonathan to “ bring pupils back . ” nigerians ’ expressions of outrage online soon translated into organized offline business action , led by former government minister ezekwesili ( who also spoke on the world ’s book event day ) and civil-society leaders , including the attorney maryam uwais and hadiza bala usman , the nigerian playwright wole pen , and the nigerian playwright wole pen of the university of nigeria . protests spread across nigeria , along with countries with large nigerian diaspora populations , such as the us , the united kingdom , south africa , and canada . international media have paid rapt attention , reporting on protests , and sit-ins . the security challenge that nigeria faces during the world economic forum ’s recent meeting to abuja , where the united nations special envoy for global education , former british prime minister gordon
in early august , russia set a trap in south ossetia , and georgia foolishly walked into it . had the russians exploited their “ peacekeeping ” force solely to protect southern ossetians ’ “ self-determination ” ( citing the precedent of western actions in kosovo ) , they would have done little damage to their soft power , benefiting them to exceed the costs . by bombing , blockading , and occupying many parts of georgia , delaying its withdrawal , parading blindfolded georgian troops , and failing to protect georgian citizens , russia lost its legitimacy claims and sowed fears and mistrust in much of the world . its neighbors like ukraine have become more wary . an immediate cost has been poland ’s reversal of its opposition to the american anti-ballistic missile system .
but diaspora diaspora potential economic importance goes well beyond remittances . as the late historian philip curtin documented , from the early days of urban life , millennia ago trade typically involved networks of co-ethnic merchants living among aliens . greeks , phoenicians , trans-sub-saharan traders , hanseatic league jews , armenians , overseas chinese , and dutch and british east indian companies organized much of world commerce through such networks . although these alien traders were sometimes politically powerful in host countries , they were often weak and faced with discrimination . the economist avner greif argues that these co-ethnic networks ’ durability and resilience throughout history reflects their ability to enforce contracts at long distances when the existing institutional framework could not do so reliably .
those tariffs raise costs for metal companies as input . for example , harley-davidson has a impact on the harley-davidson industry to raise costs by around $ 20 million ( or more than $ 2,000 ) per bicycle . the european union ’s retaliatory tariffs could cost the company another $ 45 million , on average . trump ’s signature theme is that , by helping business , he will help all americans . when government policies cut profitability – or jeopardize the existence of a company – it is only reasonable for people to run that business should react as they see fit .
but the selection of experts reflected an explicit bias toward the ministry ’s views . in fact , the ministry has used its “ informational campaign ” to shape public discourse , compelling scholars , business economists , and the general public to be more concerned about maintaining budget deficits under scrutiny than about the effects of a negative demand shock . this is a typical example of what economists , like joseph stiglitz , call “ cognitive capture . ” for more than two-decade – a period characterized by chronic recession and deflation – japan has retained its position as the world ’s richest country in terms of net wealth abroad . at the end of last year , japan ’s net international wealth amounted to ¥ 296 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) , at its peak .
in fact , big risk-taking nowadays is that , with so many genetic descriptions of organisms pouring out , we are drowning in sea of data , but are moving farther away from understanding biological complexity . the core functional units of all complex living organisms should be remembered , are cells not genes , but genes . what we need now are cell maps and maps of how cells talk . our first job is to say how many different cells there are in a complex organism . now , in a world of increasingly complex organisms , i believe we can say , this is the argument now .
new york – china ’s massive protest movement in the arab spring in 1989 , centered ( but not confined to ) beijing ’s tiananmen square , seems to have been the anti-communist revolt that failed it did . as the brutal crackdown on and on june 3-4 played out , political liberty was won in central europe – first in poland and hungary , and then beginning , when the fall – in east germany , slovakia , bulgaria , and , however violently and rather , not democratically , romania . within the next two years , the soviet union cracked on mikhail gorbachev ’s reforms finally imploded . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
from here , though , a short-step to proclaiming that the american model is impossible to work in europe , because it is socially reprehensible and , in any case , poised to crash any day now . on the other side of the debate , europe ’s desperate reformers see no way to trim , roll back , or blow the continent ’s obsessive bureaucracies and consensual policymakers . in today ’s europe , they see only hints of the possibility – a glass far fewer than half full – for reform and restructuring , and impatient with europe ’s slow progress . true , the europeans are moving at a painfully slow pace , though the attack on the state and its allies in an ossified supply side and industrial stake holders ’ dinosaurs is widening . new fronts in this war are opening every day .
they simply need those instruments , infrastructure , and the capacity to unlock the continent ’s tremendous agricultural potential . there is no reason – and no excuse – to leave millions of people ’s survival to unpredictable weather patterns . rather , they need countries to take over by drastically improving efficiency and productivity . to be sure , progress has been made . some african governments have lowered regulatory barriers to private-sector investment in agriculture .
europeans might be more cheerful , believing that the chinese market will not just open up for european engineering products and machine tools to equip the world 's new workshop ; it is also for luxury goods and even tourism demanded by a new , affluent chinese middle class . everyone feels that the seismic shift lies in the way . such rapid industrial rise is rare but not unprecedented . germany 's rise in the 19 th century and japan in the 20th century . even before that time , england was europe 's economic wundersort .
anyone expects that the current president , dmitry medvedev , to switch roles with putin after the march election . but waiting in the wings is former finance minister alexei kudrin , who might replace medvedev should have russia a facile factotum of sincerity about economic reform . kudrin ’s reputation for placid skills may simply buy putin extra time . but , in putin ’s eyes , this is unlikely to be an impossible scenario . the once , and future president , argues that he has already forged russia more forcefully , and that , as financial uncertainty grips much of the developed world in 2012 , the country has emerged as an island of stability envied by many .
over time , this was fueled by a surge in low-quality lending , because banks did not have to live with the consequences . likewise , for those procuring corporate borrowers and bundling corporate npls , volume is its own reward , even when that means lowering the standards on the creditworthiness of borrowers . the ratio of “ weakest links ” – corporates rated b or lower ( with negative outlook ) – in overall activity has risen markedly since 2013-2015 . furthermore , not only are newer issues emanating from lower-quality borrower ; covenants on the mdgs – provisions that are meant to ensure compliance with their terms – and thereby minimize default risk – have also become lax . covenant-lite issues are on the rise , and are now accounting for about 80 % of outstanding gdp .
one immediate implication of serving on the council will be the need to take positions on matters that , in recent years , some indian mandarins have preferred to lame-duck positions – for example , south sudan , whose referendum on independence threatens to spark severe violence in an area in which indian un peacekeepers already serve . likewise , during india ’s first month as a council member to the future of the un peacekeeping operation in neighboring nepal , the un will be addressed . before long , the council will also have to consider the implications of the likely commencement of a american troop drawdown in afghanistan , another region of direct significance to india ’s national security . issues like the sanctions on iran , the stop-and-start middle east peace process , and the world ’s response to a likely change of leadership across north korea will almost surely seem on the council ’s agenda , much like those that call for creative and bold thinking that transcends entrenched positions or reflexive solidarity with “ non-aligned ” countries .
years of opposition politics turned orban and his allies from young idealists into practical politicians nearing middle-age status . that practicality will be sorely tested if they are to succeed . one problem orban faces will emerge , not from his opponents . having increased his number of parliamentarians from 20 to 129 now means that many members of fidesz have never been subjected to the whip party . moreover , a huge number of these new fidesz mps formerly members of the other parties , collapsed right-wing parties not so long ago .
but it is the opponents of liberalism that wield it most effectively . as the far-right french presidential candidate marine le pen puts it , the globalization and liberal institutions that underpin it have become sauvage . meanwhile , nationalism and the traditionalism have become sources of positive feeling , albeit with those emotions – nostalgia and völkisch sense of belonging – increasingly shift sands . when liberalism is to survive as a guiding framework in international relations , its proponents must tap into its own passions . without dismissing the logic and ethics of their own – areas where the liberal world order continues to outshine an alternative – liberals are bound to connect with people on the emotional level .
this sequence of study was devised in 1893 . i believe that it is obsolete , pedagogically disastrous , ignores the twentieth century ’s tremendous scientific advances . other industrial peoples may cycle through disciplines , missing an essential coherence of the p-c-b sequence . studying science should initiate physics , not biology , in the study of physics . in studying physical age , students study algebra simultaneously , motivating them , with the impression of the power of mathematics , in mathematics .
until then , income taxes had been used only sporadically to raise the funds for wars . in britain in 1842 , however , the income tax became a systemic , permanent feature of the economy . many at that time rejected the policy altogether warning it to destroy incentives , bringing the economy to a screeching halt . fortunately , their hue and cry went unheeded , while it refused that . owing to today ’s technological advances , the share of overall income accruing to labor ( as opposed to capital ) is declining globally .
still sticking to the euro , forcing all the adjustment in wage risks greater strife ; indeed , it might merely postpone the unavoidable . governments and bond markets will test the severity of a newly agreed fiscal guideline ( if ratified ) . while talk is tough now on the european side , the history of such agreements does not inspire optimism . even before the financial crisis , germany violated the eu ’s stability and growth pact ’s ( sgp ) deficit limits . in the us , the 1980 ’s deficits limit set by gramm-rudman-hollings law were not met , and , like the sgp , were revised and extended .
between mtfa , efsm , and payments to third countries , total exposure this year amounts to € 70.5 billion . some borrow over seven-year mff periods might be possible , while upholding the medium-term objective of a balanced budget . such leveraging of the eu budget would complement the recently established european stabilization facility ( efsm successor ) and mtfa . countries receiving aid should be given the option of disbursement by eu funds anticipated . a member state demands that the commission be empowered to borrow on capital markets under the implicit eu budget guarantee , with the maximum determined by the size of the country ’s unused ( pre-allocated ) structural and cohesion finance .
indeed , japan ’s desire to continue killing whales no fewer motivated “ emotion ” than environmentalists ’ opposition to it . eating whales does not need to be health , or even better nutrition . it is a tradition they wish to continue , arguably because some japanese are emotionally attached to the cause . japan has one argument not dismissed that it is not so easily . western countries , they argue , object to whaling because , for them , whales are a special type of animal , because cows are for hindus .
abolishing taxes on realized capital gains increased sales of share holdings enormously . the international capital fund stepped in , providing companies with an urgent need for liquidity while disentangling traditional ownership networks . germany , inc. is on its last legs ; in turn , it is on its final legs . the good news is that germany ’s overblown conglomerates are scaled down to efficient size and that the capital market manages to do its job , improving resource allocation . the bad news is that financial capital is shifting abroad to fund other overblown conglomerates .
the talks would most likely be suspended ; we would be returning to where a two-year period of recrimination and mistrust were reached . even absent this trend , drift is not desirable . north korea could use the passage of time to increase its arsenal ’s nuclear weapons and make some improvements to its warheads and delivery systems without overt examination . there is a big difference between north korea , arming only a handful of inefficient warheads and inaccurate missiles and , one with dozens of advanced weapons that could be mounted on accurate long-range missile systems capable of reaching the us . at this point , any realistic policy must begin by embracing reality that complete and fully verifiable denuclearization is not a realistic prospect any time soon .
fortunately , bond markets are dead and might take a little year for revisiting them . their absence makes it difficult to make too big to invest in russian securities too large . something crucial has changed in the russian economy . a time comes when all calamities took place , and all the stupidities are recognized . for russia , august 1998 marked that dividing line .
they have walked , bussed , traveled in carts , telephoned , and tweeted with compatriots in part motivated by social demands – above all – for their own empowerment . the contrast between this dynamic space for open protest and saudi arabia could hardly starker . saudi women find living in petrified systems alone . faces for the royal family everywhere are seen ; the faces of women are shrouded , forcibly hidden anywhere . elsewhere in the world , we are seeing modernity experienced such a problem .
in that scenario , you will have to forgo all the familiar economic benefits of a globalized division of labor . between these two extremes lies most of the world , as is the case , characterized by regional integration projects like the eu or the north american free trade agreement . the us can identify important swings during the history of capitalism over the past two centuries , either toward markets or in the nation-state . for example , by repealing corn laws in the uk in 1846 favored free markets in international trade , and accelerated globalization until world war i. the us was the first to blame for the us . after wwi , the pendulum swung back to the nation-state .
japan has a powerful international reputation when it comes to managing natural disasters . but the “ perfect storm ” of the largest earthquake and tsunami since industrialization , and the resulting meltdown in the three reactor cores at the fukushima daiichi plant , went beyond any scenario previously envisaged . japan ’s national government and local communities had no emergency planning for facing contaminated areas , resulting in ad hoc responses marked by inefficiencies and poor communication , especially with regard to radiological hazard . despite such problems , effective action was implemented to evacuate those at risk and curb the potential risk hazard from contaminated foodstuffs to use . local communities initiated immediate decontamination of sensitive areas outside evacuated zones ( such as kindergartens and schools ) , in tandem with japan ’s nuclear-energy agency ( jaea ) to develop remediation technology-related technologies within these areas .
today , with both kirchner and chávez out of the picture , that periods of left-wing populism are drawing to an all-time close . chávez ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks experience and influence on foreign affairs . kirchner ’s successor , cristina fernández de kirchner , is fighting hard again . she recently suffered the heavy defeat of her peronist party in recent primaries , weakening her chances in the upcoming mid-term congressional elections , and undermining her authority during her remaining two years in office . furthermore , she is now facing a legislative election in poor health , following surgery to remove subpiñhematoma within her brain .
indeed , the three new agencies will not only enforce common engineering norms , which may ultimately become binding throughout the eu if endorsed by the european commission , but will also be allowed to settle the disputes between national supervisors . more important , they should be given the council ’s declaration of state of financial emergencies – such as the one in which the eu currently finds itself – eu agencies might exceptionally give the position of dominance over national supervisory agencies . needless to say , “ disputes ” and “ emergencies ” are precisely the future circumstances likely to matter most to national policymakers and taxpayers . if systemically important national financial institutions make decisions at the european level well in good times , whereas at the wrong time national taxpayers pick up the tab , the eu would lose the whole . in good times , the us would probably be unaware of the difference , but the grim reality is that an arrangement like this would be unlikely to avert another crisis .
two more attacks have erupted this week in afghanistan , one at a girl school where staff have been bludgeoned and bombs set out , and another at the school of neighboring boys at which a classroom is sprayed with bullets . the number of casualties in both assaults remains unknown . but the causes are all too well known : the education war is on the ground . more than 28 million out-of-school children , including places like the afghan border , the fringes of kenya , and south sudan , are now on the rise in conflict zones . every one is vulnerable to extremist violence .
one hopes that this task has been made slightly easier by publication in which copenhagen consensus economists boil down their insights . here ’s one fact to consider : the entire death toll from the southeast asian tsunami is matched each month with the number of worldwide deaths from hiv/aids . a comprehensive prevention program providing free or cheap condoms and information about safe sex to regions of the worst affected by hiv/aids would cost $ 27 billion and save more than 28 million lives . this , say , the copenhagen consensus economists makes it the single best investments the world can possibly make . the social benefits would outweigh the cost by 40 to one .
louis uchitelle of new york times quotes the highly intelligent catherine mann commenting on a “ co-dependent relationship … between america and its trading partners , ” which might “ last for some time ” because “ america and its major trading partners have a vested interest in the status quo . ” japan , china , and other export-oriented east asian economies are indeed eager to hold on relatively high value to the dollar ; and their central banks have piled close to $ 2 trillion in dollar-denominated assets . china ’s government , in terms of the threat of capital losses on its dollar-denominated securities , is as less important as maintaining near-full employment in coastal manufacturing cities like shanghai . after all , ruling communist oligarchs have grown accustomed to comfortable lifestyles . the last thing they want is mass unemployment and urban unrest to question their positions .
washington , dc – not long before , the separation of financial supervision and monetary policy has been in vogue in many countries , and the crisis has been the case for a major financial institution . some countries – such as the united kingdom and australia – have gone so far as to unbundle these functions by assigning responsibility for financial stability to specialized agencies and extricating their central banks from financial supervisory issues altogether . in the aftermath of the global financial crisis , however , they forced the financial oversight and macroeconomic management needed to re-unify . this rapprochement is a consequence of the increasing recognition that asset-price cycles must be taken into account for both macroeconomic management and financial supervision . prior to the crisis , asset-price cycles were viewed by many as essentially harmless , or at least as a relatively consequential monetary-policy channel .
seoul – if you chase two rabbits at once , the old saying goes , both will escape . and yet this is precisely what many governments are required to make : pursue both growth and distributive fairness , for example . the two goals , though incompatible , are very different from one another , and few policy tools can simultaneously help achieve both . this idea matters a lot of trade policy . much theoretical and empirical research demonstrates that opening trade may spur the growth of a country ’s gdp .
the ttip is not just the us and the eu . mexico already has an fta with the eu , and canada is negotiating one . at some point , nafta and ttip will need to be harmonized . the other countries in the world – still accounting for over half of world gdp and the bulk of global trade and fdi – are wondering how the ttip would affect each of them . one possibility , suggested by my former colleague , former us trade representative carla hills , is that a successful ttip would be a major impetus for rekindling the moribund doha round of global free-trade talks .
indeed , sovereigns are dumping a bigger fraction of their public debt onto banks ’ balance sheets , especially in the eurozone . to avoid a disorderly outcome in the eurozone , today ’s fiscal austerity should be much more gradual , a growth compact with the eu ’s new fiscal compact , and the mutualization of fiscal unions ( eurobonds ) should complement this . moreover , a full banking union , starting with eurozone-wide deposit insurance , should start , shifting toward greater political integration , even as greece leaves the eurozone . unfortunately , germany resists all of these core policy arrangements , owing to a fixated on credit risk on which its taxpayers would suffer from more economic , fiscal , and banking integration . as a result , the probability that the eurozone disaster would be rising has increased . and while greece could be the biggest to burst , that is hardly the sole threat to the entire global economy .
it is this so-called “ string of pearls ” strategy that directly threatens india ’s national-security interests , rendering a type of robust bilateral relationship that benefits both countries next to impossible . of course , in fact , china contends , its intentions toward india are peaceful . it contends , for example , that its effort to place bases in the indian ocean and bolster its blue-water navy is intended to safeguard the malacca straits , a maritime trade route that is perceived as choke points for the chinese economy . but actions speak louder than words – and the message that china ’s behavior sends remains far from peaceful . indeed , chinese leaders seem to be taking advantage of opening the way afforded by an overstretched united states to assert control over the wide swaths of asia ’s oceans .
european opponents of a map for ukraine and georgia argue that neither country is ready for nato membership . too many question marks for their national unity , too many internal conflicts linger in this way , and their records on political and judicial reform are supposedly dubious . but a roadmap does not imply an automatic right to nato membership . maps , on the other hand , would place heavy demands on ukraine and georgia . both would need to answer a multitude of hard questions and persuade others that they are capable of living up to nato ’s democratic demands before being allowed to join .
yet , like donald trump , it was le pen who ran as the “ voice of the people , ” whereas macron , like hillary clinton , depicted himself as a puppet of bankers , cultural elites , and international plutocrats . so what do left and right still mean if anything ? there is little question that something shifted in the decades of the twentieth century , too . left-wing parties began to lose – in some countries more quickly than others – their foundation on the industrial working class . wealth redistribution became progressively less important than the social emancipation of their ethnic and sexual minority .
one risk is that north korea will come over the coming years to possess a significant arsenal that poses a meaningful threat to the us , which is a threat that will be reached . another is that north korea ’s neighbors , including south korea and japan , will determine that they , too , need nuclear weapons , given the north korean threat , and their diminished trust in america ’s reliability , and that its guarantees must protect them against it and its nuclear forces . the danger in both regions is that a race to acquire nuclear weapons could trigger a preventive war . even if such a war were avoided , the presence of multiple us and other countries of the us nuclear arsenals would add the temptation for a single or more countries to strike first in a crisis . either the us or japan “ use them ” has the potential to become a recipe for instability and conflict when capabilities are not robust enough to absorb the attack and still to mete the sort of ruinous retaliation essential to effective deterrence .
at a 2013 summit meeting at sunnylands retreat in california earlier this month , chinese president barack obama showed chinese president xi jinping evidence that members of the chinese military stealing industrial technologies were . the chinese accepted the evidence , agreeing that theft of industrial technology was different from other forms of espionage , arguing that the chinese government would not help in such theft . because this is not enough to stem other chinese theft of american civilian and military technologies , the new nss rightly stresses that the american government will take further steps to halt it . when specific trade policies turned out , the nss emphasizes that the us will seek to “ break down trade barriers ” by ensuring the opportunities to boost its exports . this emphasis on boosting its exports , rather than lowering its imports , is a welcome characteristic .
many chinese mistakenly concluded that this represented a shift in the balance of global power . but such narratives can lead to conflict . indeed , overconfidence-building in assessing their power led to more assertive chinese foreign-policy behavior in the latter part of 2009 and 2010 . by deviating from a smart strategy of rising power , china misreads deng ’s dictum that china should pursue cautiously and “ skillfully retain a low profile . ” after chinese leaders faced international criticism and deteriorating relations with the us , japan , india , and elsewhere , they decided to revert to deng ’s smart-power strategy .
since then , however , the country has run into trouble and become the recipient of record-breaking support by the international monetary fund ( imf ) . argentina has fallen back into crisis for simple reason that not enough has changed since the latest debacle . as things stand , the country ’s economic and financial foundations left its economic and economic foundations vulnerable to both internal and outside shocks . although their commitment to ambitious reform programs , argentina ’s economic and financial authorities have also made several avoidable mistakes . fiscal discipline and structural reform have gone unevenly , and the central bank has squandered its credibility at key moments .
experiments by economists to predict future results have had mixed results , at best ; very few foresaw the depth of the great recession , even after it had already begun . the trouble lies in the fact that many of the leading indicators used to measure the economy rely on an out-of-date , incomplete , or flawed , data . forecasters , for example , calculate real gdp on the basis of initial monthly estimates of quarterly gdp – a statistic that is often revised in substantially the same way as more data becoming available . as a result , forecasting lags far behind realities . during the third quarter of 2008 , fewer than 30 % of forecasters who contributed to a survey of professional forecasters predicted that gdp would decline in the remaining months of the year ; in reality , gdp plunged by more than 8 % in the fourth quarter of 2008 , one of the largest drops on record .
fighting in kosovo is the first major conflict that for one side at least involves no considerations of strategy , territory , population , natural resources , or even ideology . the west struggles a war over principle , a war that , as president bill clinton put it , “ will end the moral tragedy . ” at issue is an attempt to stop the epidemic , carriers of which in 20th century europe were nazism , communism , fascism , and now nationalism . nato , for first time , intervened within another country ’s internal affairs . this represents a significant change in nato ’s policy , downgrades the conception of national sovereignty and elevates the state ’s status of ethical norms in international relations .
building codes already guard against dangers like fire and earthquakes ; building codes is the only way to combat the dangers of the fire . far-sighted governments in places as different as germany and singapore are now mandating green buildings . policymakers know that it is up to governments to the role required to mandating regulations to establish a level playing field and help build industry capacity . california ’s latest building and appliance standards is expected to avoid the need for five large power plants in the coming ten years . buildings over the past decade have made so decisions that today have a long-run impact on us energy consumption .
nevertheless , the effort to preempt american strategy clearly failed , as new un sanctions earlier this month implemented . as the deal was intended , in response to the nuclear standoff with iran , why was there so much outrage in the us and the west ? i worry that it is because the us itself has found its primacy in setting global policy on iran . instead of trying to explore options presented by the piñan/turkish opening , the u.s. was quick to push the un security council for more sanctions ( the fourth-largest round so far ) on iran . this forced brazil or turkey , both of the security council ’s currently non-permanent members , to vote against a resolution of sanctions .
they chose , in the absence of explanation , to divide debt-to-gdp ratios within the subsequent categories : below 30 % , 30-60 % , 60-90 % , and over 90 % . and they turn out that the rate of growth decline in all of these categories as a debt-to-gdp ratio rises , only somewhat as in the last category . there is also the issue of reverse causality . debt-to-gdp ratios tend to increase for countries in the economic problem . when this is the part of the reason that higher debt-to-gdp ratios are consistent with lower economic growth , there is less reason to think that countries should avoid a higher ratio , because keynesian theories imply that fiscal austerity would undermine , rather than boost , economic output .
as a result , policies force people and businesses to shift to immature technologies will slow growth , aggravating the poverty of energy . that , too , is why the world is far further behind in its “ energy transition ” than most people realize . solar and wind combined currently deliver about 1 % of global energy , and the international energy agency estimates that this alone will reach 4.1 % by 2040 . vaclav smil , who is bill gates ’s favorite energy expert , says that “ claims of a rapid shift toward a zero-carbon society are plain nonsense , ” adding that “ even a vastly accelerated shift toward renewables would not relegate fossil fuels to minority contributors to the global energy supply anytime soon , certainly not by 2050 . ” many of these panicky political declarations and climate protests are fueled by the widespread conviction that the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) has told us that we have just 12 years left to save the planet .
fewer africans working in rich countries will automatically translate into fewer money circulating in african countries . declining remittances , however , both cutbacks . remittances have long spurred higher inflation in many parts of africa . ugandan physician working in norway , for example , cares little about the cost of a beer beer in kampala . he is also willing – and able – to pay more than a local service doctor , and , of course , a home in uganda .
in europe , on the other hand , greater weight is placed to avoid risk , undermining private-sector trust in investing in innovation . for its part , the eu ’s goal – to protect human health and the environment – is laudable . but mitigation of all risk is impossible . rather , the precautionary principle should be harnessed judiciously and rationally . balancing potential risks with the benefits that innovation and new technology can offer . this idea of risk underpins economic interactions , as it stands , is .
ramallah – palestinians and israelis have different , potentially contradictory expectations , from the indirect negotiations pushed by the united states to the outset by both sides . israel was among the first parties to welcome the arab league ’s reluctant decision to back palestinian president mahmoud abbas ’s invitation to the palestinians to give its blessing on the talks . it is clear that for israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s right-wing government , the start of indirect talks without freeze settlement activity in the west bank and jerusalem represents a sort of victory . just to remind the world of this , since the indirect talks were preparing to withdraw the ground , israel ’s government approved a resolution to break the ground on 112 housing units in a settlement south jerusalem , and a 1600 new settlement units in east jerusalem . for the palestinians , return to the talks , however indirect , is focused on one strategic issue : borders .
for while a moral hazard argument emphasizes an orthodox commandment “ thou does n’t intervene , ” a critical feature of the potential of globalization hazard is the failure of markets . unlike moral hazard , market failure underscores circumstances in which government intervention is both socially desirable and economically defensible . that the failure of international capital markets led to sudden and disruptive capital outflows after 1996 is only one such episode . consider other devastating events that are uninsured ( and frequently uninsurable ) in the private sector . in the us , for example , floods , hurricanes , earthquakes , and tornadoes trigger immediate federal assistance .
as a result , while european countries have remained democratic , the eu ’s institutions , where sovereignty over crucial decisions has been transferred , have remained democracy-free . as margaret thatcher explained during her most recent parliamentary appearance , as british prime minister , who controls money and interest rates controls european politics . handing europe money and politics to the cartel administration not just spell the end of european democracy ; it has also fueled a vicious cycle of authoritarianism and poor economic performance . the more europe ’s establishment chokes off democracy , the less legitimate its political authority become . that , in turn , leads european leaders to double down on authoritarianism in order to stick to their failed policies when recessionary economic forces reinforce .
tokyo – the scale of the earthquake and tsunami that struck japan in march was far greater than even the authorities ’ worst-case scenarios predicted . almost six months later , total damage remains difficult to estimate . the social turmoil and confusion , along with radiation leaks from the fukushima nuclear-power plant , continues . and now the country has absorbed another massive blow : another downgrade of its bond ratings . both moody ’s and standard & poor ’s now rate japanese bonds at only their fourth-highest levels .
even if the precision of iranian missiles can not be guaranteed , many might still avoid defensive systems for the us . israel ’s state-of-the-art iron dome anti-missile defenses , for example , have been unable even to neutralize all of the crude missiles launched from gaza . moreover , the iranian regime forged a network of proxy powers throughout the region . syria and iraq became crucial ties in an iran-led shia strategic arc stretching from afghanistan into lebanon . the regime ’s proxy force includes segments of afghanistan ’s shia population , iraqi shi’a militias , and hezbollah , which controls southern lebanon and possess thousands of rockets who were ready to target israel .
indeed , raba observes at every u.s. screening of his film , audiences need to apologize before it starts to relate for rasheed as a filmmaker , not as a representative of his home country . " personally , i ask nothing ; here , too , i am clear of some confusion by a medium film . " iraqis , ravaged with war and now shaken daily through violence , are known as the most intellectually inclined of arab countries . as iraq and other muslim intellectuals in the region often repeat : “ books are written in egypt , print in lebanon , and read in iraq . ” here , hope of raheed and his colleagues continues to build iraqi cultures in which there is a vibrant , free , free ; and here is hope that american relations and international audiences to rasheed go from one expiation to one of his engagement with his work .
complicating matters further for china , the rush toward the creation of an open , market-oriented economy has fueled corruption and rent-seeking . and , as recent european post-crisis experience demonstrated , it has become politically difficult to pursue structural reforms when vested interests have captured the regulatory system . that is why chinese president xi jinping has engaged in a comprehensive anti-corruption campaign – often misrepresented like a power grab – since the assumption that office was in 2012 . yet china ’s problems extend beyond structural imbalances to two types of cyclical macroeconomic risks . the first risk stems from business cycles in the advanced , market-based economies , where interest rates , low inflation , and growth rates go up and fall together .
moreover , trade also carries much broader benefits to society . economic globalization was shown to reduce child mortality and broaden life expectancy , owing to improved incomes and greater information . in the us , trade over the last half-century has increased longevity considerably . in uganda , freer trade over the past 35 years was shown to extend the average lifespan rate further by 2-3 years . what ’s more , “ free trade is good for the environment , ” to quote a single academic study .
sustained structured defense cooperation – agreed last december by the european council – is a good place to launch , with countries increasing by , for example , joint strategic planning at the european level . inspired by german chancellor angela merkel ’s recent proposal to tie eu funding to accepting migrants , member states should also work to create stronger incentives for cooperation . there is little question of the difficulty of the 27 sovereign countries to behave as one . but , as tempting as it may be , attempting to paper over distinctions or avoid dissent – let alone destroying the compact at the heart of the european project – will not make matters any easier . the only way to get where europe needs a path is through a realistic and progressive effort to build unity .
to be sure , the media are under attack like never before , and not only fake news and polarizing presidents . the slaying of nine journalists in kabul on april 30 , in back-to-back suicide bombings that killed at least 25 people , pegged the deadliest daily for journalists in afghanistan since the taliban ’s fall , adding to the grim global tally . according to reporters without borders , more than 1,000 journalists worldwide have been murdered over the past 15 years , bringing only a handful of perpetrators to justice . and yet fresh glimmers of hope are multiplying . around the world , journalists and their supporters are fighting back in encouraging ways .
seven decades ago , the developed world accounted for most of the world ’s income but only about 15 % of its population . now , billions of people are lifted out of poverty and wealthier , healthier , and more opportunities . future historians may well remember this period as humanity ’s greatest exercise in inclusiveness to date . yet not so long ago , nearly nobody saw it coming . this unanticipated megatrend has unforeseen corollaries .
for example , in the 1980 ’s , the soviet leadership warned that any reform would allow germany to control poland . indeed , it reacted to the polish opposition ’s rise by castigating them as instruments for western power , stalking horses for american or german interests that would ultimately exploit ordinary poles . at the same time , the communist government emphasized how incoherent the opposition was , owing to tensions inherent in economic liberals ’ marriage , leftist workers , conservative catholics ( and nationalists ) , and against them . nurturing suspicions of who were backing whom helped to drive wedges among a variety of groups . polish foreign minister radosław sikorski ’s recent call for more assertive leadership by germany demonstrates how different poland ’s worldview today is .
japan ranks 158th out of 189 countries in terms of their ratio of female mps . things are just as bad at the lower level of government , where women account for a mere 13.1 % of representatives in local parliaments , more than 40 % of whom have no female members . as liberal democratic progressive party leader shinzo abe should instruct local party branches to choose more female candidates to run in the next april ’s local elections . but , so far , abe seems to lack the will to do so ( though he may choose to work with the local party bosses behind the scenes to bring more women into account ) . likewise , it is worrying that some in abe have chosen for his cabinet , and for key party posts are arch-conservatives who advocate that women stay at home and take care of children .
living long enough is one of our deepest desires , and medical and economic progress offers hope that it can fulfill . some researchers say that average human lifespan could reach 90 years or more by mid-century . but what if our wish is taken for granted ? what good is an longer life , if we can not maintain our standard of living ? the crucial difficulty of planning for enhanced longevity is that we do not know whether it will really happen .
so , in introducing a new governance style , exemplified by merit-based cabinet appointments , jokowi must be careful not to alienate the political and business elites that long benefited from their tight grip on power . in short , if jokowi is to shape the domestic consensus on the institutions indonesia needs , he will need to reach through that political divide . to this end , mexican president enrique peña nieto ’s cross-party pact for mexico “ could serve as a useful model . promisingly , jokowi has a reputation for partisan autonomy and religious politics , with talent for communicating with the people . and , as a political outsider , he has a unique place to direct indonesia toward a more prosperous , united future – and vault himself to a country of great leaders ’ pantheon .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one side of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
the imf is all too politically a systemic-risk watchdog . the next g-20 summit should implement fundamental reform of the fsb . it should provide the fsb a legal personality , enshrined in the international treaty . currently , the fsb does not possess formal status and only a tiny , if high-quality , permanent staff hosted by the bundesbank for international settlements in basel . draghi ’s successor as chairman should be a full-time appointee , with the fsb giving powers to direct other standard setters , revising the implementation of standards by individual countries , and publicizing the outcomes .
the case also attracted attention in the west . dozens of pop startups , from pete townshend and paul mccartney to madonna , rallied in support of women . the pussy riot , of course , could hardly have been classified as musicians . they had a greater interest in producing visual images , too . both feminist chants and primitive monolids were secondary to spectacle .
the us petroleum agency ( dpr ) , the us petroleum agency ( iaea ) , has dismissed these claims , vowing to impose hefty fines on companies that flout the deadline . in the early 1990s , in desperate short of a hard currency , nigeria negotiated contracts permitting oil companies to develop new fields and recoup their investment , before sharing profits . now that firms ’ discovery of massive reserves , technocrats appointed by yar yar ’ adua to take up charge of oil policy want nigeria to get a larger slice of the pie . that also implies ending governments ’ collaborative finance of operating costs and demanding that oil companies tap capital markets to bridge the shortfall . moreover , tony chukwueke , the gdpr head , declared plans to create an african version of petrheit , malaysia ’s state-run oil company , and transform the sclerotic nigerian national petroleum corporation into the powerful oil-producing firm that can dominate the market in guinea and other emerging regions .
moscow – in the wake of september 11 , 2001 , terror attacks in the united states , the so-called “ war on terror ” was launched . but us-led military invasions in afghanistan and iraq have been not the whole ; at the same time , many countries have ramped up monitoring and policing of domestic media and ordinary citizens . free of expression and personal privacy , governments have claimed , would have to be curtailed . the damage has been particularly pronounced in russia , where anti-terror regulation has often been used as an instrument for muffle voices from those who offer independent or alternative views , particularly views that are critical of president vladimir putin ’s government . by using security as a pretext to flout the legislation of russia ’s media that explicitly protects journalists from censorship , the government has undermined journalism considerably .
but , as edmund burke famously pointed out , “ your representative owes you , not his industry , but his convictions , and betrays instead serve you if he sacrifices that view to your own . ” the populist campaigns in major referenda this year differed in important respects . colombian opponents of the peace agreement , for example , appealed to universal norms of justice for war crimes committed by the army and farc , not national particularism , as they did in the uk and the netherlands . nonetheless , all of these have been motivated by a desire to scuttle governments and institutions they oppose . and they have all been willing to follow the tradition of dictators , and resort to smears , distortions , and “ covenastical ” claims .
to boolish young , allen , anxious intellectual still to get a girl ’s part model , was a kind of role model . but now that we know accusations against comedian andrew movie director , we are being forced , in scott ’s opinion , to reappraise the job in that light . something sinister and immoral may be found in movies that we should take into account . in other words , bad behavior or even alleged wrong behavior can taint artistic work , because the artist can not separate himself from his art from the art . this is at least a more interesting proposition than the notion that art should be disqualified only because we do not like the manner of artist behaved privately .
and public officials are being prosecuted , just as they are , as are being prosecuted . guatemala ’s former president otto pérez molina was forced to resign , followed by jailed corruption for a later date . indonesia ’s house speaker , setya novanto , was also forced to resign , after being caught trying to extort money from a subsidiary of the freeport-mcmoran mining company . and indonesia ’s special court for corruption crimes has just sentenced the country ’s former minister for energy and mineral resources , jerusalem ’s wacik , to four years in prison . journalism has played a larger role as well .
most economists agree on the ideal mix and sequencing of such maneuvers . a so-called beautiful de-leveraging ( de-leveraging ) entails a combination of internal reform , financing , and judicious use of the market pricing mechanism . but what looks good in theory has proven difficult when it comes to practice . for one thing , policymakers are more likely to continue to increase their countries ’ dependence on funding , thereby heightening the risk of a disorderly market adjustment than they are to implement difficult structural reforms and fiscal adjustment . for this reason , many countries have endured painful disruptions , aggravated possibly avoidable falls in output , caused unemployment to surge , and , at worst , eroded potential growth .
stanford – in march , the german tabloid bild published an article founded at the secrecy document revealing how breakaway areas of eastern ukraine “ be treated as parts of russia ’s sovereign territories . ” revelations cast the ongoing minsk 2 peace negotiations in new light , one illuminates the frustrations espoused by ukraine ’s government . the bild document is a report by the october meeting of the russia ’s “ inter-ministerial commission on the provision of humanitarian aid for the affected regions in donetsk and luhansk . ” it describes how the meeting ’s attendees focus not only on humanitarian assistance , but rather on serving a kind of shadow government . working groups cooperating with russian authority were established to run the region ’s finances , economic policies , energy , and transportation infrastructure , and commerce .
let us be very clear , too , about “ renegotiating the terms of membership ” the refuge of those who want to leave , but want to persuade people that this actually is just an adjustment in the relationship . when “ adjustment ” is over , “ the going gets very rough ( just as it will ) , you are saying , “ well , it is pity , but now the adjustment appears inadequate . ” if britain focuses over the coming years not on how it can help europe recover and prosper , but rather on how it can modify its own relationship with europe , there should be no mistaking the temper and frame of mind that our current partners will bring to this negotiation . there are , in fact , varying degrees of polish politics . but they will not thank us and accommodate .
it is also depriving the continent of talents , and the contributions that are needed for driving and advancing development . an african development bank report 2011 finds that “ getting women into science and technology ultimately promises benefits society as a whole . ” stem gender equity is achievable , and many african scholars demonstrate the world . yet they need help , and programs that provide scholarships and aid are among the best ways to achieve gender parity in the sciences . the causes of africa ’s stem gender imbalance often are comparison with leaky pipe : girls start with interest and aptitude , but drop out of disciplines across different points in education .
and yet farfetched a global currency can sound , recall that before world war i , ditching the gold standard seemed just as implausible . the current system is both risky and inefficient ; it is also a problem that can not be forgotten . different monies are not just a nuisance for tourists , who arrive at home with pockets full of unspendable foreign coins . global firms waste both time and resources on a predominantly futile effort to hedge currency risk ( benefiting only banks that act like middlemen ) . ridding the world of national currencies would be enormous .
what they did is not do is involve the international community with a comprehensive counterproposal . their offer , which would have to go far beyond the 2002 arab peace initiative , or the portfolio of relevant un resolutions – could even incorporate kushner ’s plan as part of his transition toward a final settlement . past transitional agreements amounted to what george orwell called “ catastrophic gradualism . ” yet , with the inclusion of a robust economic strategy , this could be transformed into “ auspicious gradualism . ” after all , economic development would go a long way toward stabilizing palestinian society in preparation for statehood , drastically boosting the chances of a peace settlement with long-term success .
caning kartika on the other hand is not an example of political manipulation , and , perhaps more worrisome for this reason . her sentence has roundly been backed by the modernist muslim intellectuals who have insisted on the punishment being justly applied and can not be called into question for , because it has divine punishment . these have not been politicians , but the former idealists who are happy that their islamic goals are realized . most are anti-umno and are supporting pas . as a result , the umno finds itself squeezed among the islamic lobby that presses for more “ talibanization ” of the country , and the rise of voices by international critics who can not be ignored because the party needs both radical supporters and foreign investors to stay in power .
a us response would obviously be to conclude any trilateral northeast asian fta in order to preserve its own role in global trade – and in the supply chains that dominate the asian economies . to expand and deepen the infant trans-pacific partnership , a us trade deal that president barack obama committed to the us last year would likely be an end in scope . specifically , the us would strongly stimulate japan to engage with the tpp on a global basis , because , rather than a split between asia and asia , the american might want a united asia-pacific economic community . because japan would not wish to be disconnected from the us over the strategic basis of strategic considerations , japan might indeed embrace an american invitation . in this scenario , both japan and south korea would have to find some means of bridging a sino-centric asia and a japanese-centered pacific .
as premier pan-european union institutions , the ecb has been uniquely positioned to play a leadership role in european debates over fiscal policy , trade policy , and demographic transition . yet , while quietly makes a number of important technical contributions to various debates , it is hemmed in politically , and thus can not reach out forcefully beyond its jurisdiction . this is unfortunate limitation of the ecb ’s design through a group of nation states that have so far failed to decide whether they favor greater unity or greater decentralization . to the boj , the fundamental problem is its deep institutional fear of rocking the boat politically , and hence its inability to play the role of the chief economist . as a result , america ’s fed chairman today commands super-normal influence .
those results foreshadowed a study last year by anne case and angus deaton showing that life expectancy was on the decline to large segments of the population – including america ’s so-called angry rust belt men . yet , with the incomes of the bottom 90 % having stagnated for the third of the century ( and in decline for a significant share ) , the health data simply confirmed that things do not bode well for very large swaths of the country . and while america might be at the extreme of this trend , things were rather little better elsewhere . but if it seemed clear that there would be political consequences , the extent to which it would be , its shape and timing were much less obvious . why did the backlash in the us come just when the economy seemed to be on the mend rather than earlier ?
aside from the annapolis talks that seem to go nowhere , owing to parties ’ irreconcilable differences over core issues , all other peacemaking efforts are tactical rather than strategic . in none of them , conditions still exist for the immediate leap forward from war to peace , nor are the parties themselves anticipating that they will happen . it would require bold statesmanship to turn the cease-fire with hamas into a prelude to political talks in gaza . indeed , it is both israel and the united states adamant in excluding hamas from a annapolis process unless and until it recognizes israel ’s right to exist , while hamas will not abandon its identity as an opposition movement merely to join negotiations that seem unlikely to meet palestinian minimal requirements . for israel , the cease-fire with hamas reflects its reluctance to become mired in another asymmetric war , like that fought one in lebanon two summers ago this time in the alleys of gaza ’s refugee camps .
specifically , germany , europe ’s greatest economic power , and france , the intellectual intellectual intellectual intellectual progenitor of european reunification , should make their simultaneous exit by the euro , and re-embracing the deutsche mark and the franc . this would trigger the immediate revaluation of the deutsche mark – and potentially of the franc – relative to the us dollar . for their part , other eu member countries would have to decide whether to retain their own national currencies , possibly pegging them to the revived deutsche mark or franc . regardless of their decision-making , a weaker eurozone economy ’s price competitiveness would improve much . france and germany would , of course , need to implement interim arrangements to safeguard their banking systems ’ stability .
islamic revolutionaries in 1979 thus made the point of maintaining zoroastrian temples . in its muslim era , iran boasted some of the world ’s great poets , writers , and scientists . none this would have been possible if iran ’s ancient muslim rulers had not allowed academic freedom and freedom freely exchange of ideas and term – something sorely absent in today ’s islamic republic . other autocratic rulers in the muslim world are learning from iran ’s example cracking down on hard intellectuals , journalists , lawyers , women activists , or just anyone with ideas and seeking to exchange them with others . for such muslim rulers , intellectuals are the new global terrorists bombarding their regimes with the intellectualism of the us .
a leadership group would thus represent an important public showdown of governments ’ commitment to addressing and resolving core issues , providing a desperately needed vehicle for translating its resolution into action . its direct ties to us president barack obama , russian president vladimir putin , and european leaders would distinguish it from existing arrangements . initially , the leadership group could include representatives from a core group of states – france , germany , italy , poland , russia , sweden , ukraine , the united kingdom , and the united states , for example – directly empowered and linked their presidents and prime ministers . to ensure broad membership and transparency across europe and within existing structures , a leadership group should incorporate the osce representative , the european union , eurasian economic union , and nato . a leadership group ’s first priority would be to address the current crisis .
as some confidence returns in an eventually recapitalized banking system and long bond yields fall by falling inflation , mortgage and other borrowing rates will plummet , and monetary transmission mechanisms will revive , supporting economic activity and stabilizing real-estate prices , albeit at a substantially lower level . finally , there are two major differences between the 1930s and the current one . the industrial world today is far more dependent ( mostly foreign ) oil than it was then . the extreme rise in real oil prices was a cause of the current recession , with its reversal fueling a major recovery . the other crucial difference is that we know enough to repeat past errors – particularly trade protectionism – of the 1930s .
scientists continue to surprise us , with amazing discoveries , with billions more people all over the world lifted out of poverty . but dark clouds have formed on the horizon . terrorists have hit europe with vengeance , while millions of refugees fleeing wars and hunger tax european institutions and straining social cohesion . populist movements have emerged , calling for closed borders and new walls , and their rejection of expertise has led heldin to a “ gloomy truth ” : that “ we can no longer take it for granted that people trust in science , facts , and knowledge . ” our expectations , of course , will always be in tension with reality .
denver – the agreement on syria ’s chemical-weapons stockpile reached by russia and the united states is important not to such an important extent for what it could mean on the ground – which remains to be perceived as inspectors begin to flow across syria , which we hope is chemical-weapons stockpiles starting to be destroyed . rather , the agreement ’s key significance consists in hitting all : america ’s secretary of state , john kerry , met with his russian counterpart , sergei lavrov , in geneva that the vast majority of traditional diplomatic venues and cut a deal at an issue of intensive mutual interest . in the days ahead , weeks , and months forward , arrangements to remove chemical weapons from syria will one hopes , start a new era in which the us and russia work together on other pressing global issues , just as well . a cooperative us-russian relationship is critical if the international system , now almost dysfunctional , is to work properly toward the future . the agreement on syria might achieve something other : americans might recognize that the lo and behold , there is other
the benefits of global capitalism are unevenly distributed . capital , moreover , lies in far better shape than labor because capital is more mobile . moreover , financial capital is preferable in the global system than industrial capital ; once a plant exists , moving it becomes difficult . to be sure , multinational corporations enjoy flexibility in transfer pricing , and can exert pressure at a time when new investment decisions are made , but their flexibility does not compares to the freedom enjoyed by international portfolio investors . there is also the advantages in having a global economy at the center rather than at a periphery .
i have long defaulted on watching the five-year forward price for the lack of a more “ more market ” approach to thinking about the equilibrium oil price . as i explained in january 2015 , the brent crude spot oil price is becoming less subject to speculative fluctuations and , therefore , purer approximation of underlying commercial supply and demand factors . the chart i prepared – made prior to the most recent oil-price acceleration in early november – demonstrates the five-year forward oil price picking up after some stability period . with spot prices now moving above five-year forward on a path , one could conclude that the trend change is underway . it is to be unsure about my part ; but i would be no surprise if that happened .
but the dpj ’s only reason for being is its anti-ldp stance , while the sdp has long opposed the japan-us security treaty , and the pnp strongly opposes koizumi ’s privatizations . that does n’t amount to a coherent government program ; prime minister yukio hatoyama ’s administration quickly revealed the dpj ’s fundamental hollowness . the largest problem with hatoyama ’s administration , however , is that the dpj assumed power without a coherent national-security policy . this should not have surprised anyone . the dpj was established in 1998 as the party of “ jambalaya , ” consisting of people who abandoned the ldp , including hatoyama himself and the former socialist party .
preparing the state to provide effective defense is unthinkable without an extra or lesser degree of state participation . in democratic states , these involve defensive efforts only insofar as society understands the importance of defense first . thus , it is a need to remind ourselves time , and again that defending the state means , first and foremost , defending human dignity in every one of us . the region 's new republics , face no concrete or visible enemy at present . as a result , many regard defense expenditures as a luxury , if not outright waste of money .
more investment could enable scientists to discover new microbial strains with unique skills to influence soil and crop health locally to leveraging africa 's own natural environment to improve agricultural productivity . stronger investment in soil research could also have spillover advantages for african economies . with new discoveries leading to patents and licenses , a resulting research could spur the formation of new agribusinesses and farm-related industries . i can personally vouch to power spillover benefits from this type of research . my own work on soil microbes at auburn led to issuance of three american patents , with several agricultural companies pursuing the rights to commercialize products from the technology .
in the american-iranian equation that it had in mind , not iran , that conducted rigid ideological diplomacy . iran backed the us during the first gulf war , but abandoned its madrid peace conference . iran , too , supported the american side in its war in order to depose the taliban in afghanistan . and when american forces overran saddam hussein ’s army in the spring of 2003 , encircled iranians proposed a grand bargain that would have placed all contentious themes on the table , from the nuclear issue to israel , from hezbollah to hamas . at the same time , the iranians pledged to block the israeli-palestinian peace process .
at the same time , it has long pursued american military advantage . it unilaterally abrogated the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty in 2002 . more recently , it embarked on a massive build-up of conventional forces and large-scale modernization of its nuclear arsenal . still , russia , china , and the outside world will not permit a return to american hegemony . putin recently made this clear by unveiling a number of new , cutting-edge strategic weapons systems , as part of what i would call a strategy of “ preemptive deterrence . ”
but in copenhagen , the structure established by the lisbon treaty failed . beyond the failed failure in copenhagen , the eu has several other problems . it tends to be perceived globally as supercilious , petulant , and prim . its know-it-all attitude grates nearly everywhere . with only 7 % of the world ’s population ( and rapidly dwindling ) and composed mostly of a post-industrial low-growth economy , the eu is increasingly seen as peripheral .
but bigger companies also also have more capabilities to become the force of good , locally and globally . if a company size to the american retailer walmart decides that it would not allow wasteful packaging , its purchasing power leads to changes in packaging over the retail sector as a whole . the same goes for wages and labor practices . when the world ’s largest companies and most well-recognized brands take seriously their share of responsibility as buyers , sellers , and manufacturers , and make a firm commitment to act on core values , others tend to follow – or risk being left behind . those that operate on an ethical footing and seek to improve the lives of all associated with manufacture , marketing , and allocation of their manufactured products will benefit kudos , more business , or simply not singled out as the bad actor .
simply put , western countries ’ current approach is not working . this can be seen most clearly in my own country , pakistan . despite massive increases in aid in recent years , including trillions authorized by former president barack obama , those of us on earth largely cut out of delivery . there are roughly 70 separate local aid offices , and 40 international ngos involved are providing aid to pakistanis . but most decisions about how to spend the money they receive are made outside the country .
the same endemic corruption is causing the canadian government to guarantee a new pipeline to export output from its polluting and expensive oil sands to asia , while under-investing in canada ’s vast renewables . in his meeting to ceos of major oil and gas companies , francis told them “ our desire to ensure energy for all must not lead to an undesired impact of a spiral of extreme climate change , owing to the catastrophic rise of global temperatures , harsher environments , and rising levels of poverty . ” oil companies , he noted , “ are engaged in a continuing search for new fossil-fuel reserves , whereas the paris agreement has clearly urged that the majority of fossil-fuel subsidies go underground . ” and he has reminded executives that , “ civilization requires energy , but energy usage must not destroy civilization ! ” francis underscored the moral dimension of the problem : the problem is the moral dimension of the problem :
and a nearly identical , invariably lethal disease , kuru , was ravaged by aboriginal people in papua new guinea throughout the twentieth century . both kuru and scrapie are infectious ; today , the disease is not infectious . kuru was transmitted through cannibalistic rituals that were commonplace in papua new guinea until the 1950 ’s . similarly , in the uk and elsewhere , sound cattle were feed meat and bone food produced by an infected livestock . with an estimated epizootic ( animal epidemic ) affected more than 280,000 cows , the resulting epizootic ( animal ) epidemic has affected more than 280,000 cows .
this includes those reliant on bank credit , as well as many mortgage holders with very high legacy interest rates and balances that transcend the market value of their homes . from every angle , the extreumends of this state of affairs – in which those with access to credit need not , and those who can not get it to do so – are highly problematic . if left unattended , it leads to gradual and subsequently accelerating deleveraging , renewed deleveraging of the economic system with the highest first-round costs – longer unemployment and the growth crisis – have borne disproportionately on those at least able to suffer . in the us , the next round , as the us system slowly implodes , even those with healthy balance sheets would be impacted , accelerating their disengagement away from the world ’s deleveraging economy . all of this slows social mobility , tears already-stretched safety nets , worsen inequality , and accentuates genuine concerns about today ’s functioning and sustainability in the global economic system .
everywhere , for whatever reason – misguided strategies , tactical mistakes , erroneous theories , american interventions , etc. – faced just defeat , repression and futility . by the early 1990 ’s , it became increasingly apparent that the armed struggle to power in latin america was winding down . only a few groups remained : the shining track in peru ; manuel rodríguez patriotic front in chile ; for a brief time in chiapas , mexico and the farc in colombia . democratic transitions throughout the hemisphere had made guerrilla warfare unwarranted : as che foretold in his la guerra de guerillas in 1962 , wherever trappings of power ( or , one might add , realities ) of the democratic rule prevailed , taking up arms was pointless . in country after country , the guerrillas were defeated , pacified , brought in motion the democratic process , or rendered irrelevant .
european fascism collapsed with germany 's defeat in 1945 , but less aggressive forms lived in elsewhere , such as argentina with its peronism . the socialist foundation of interwar fascism made it reasonable to see it as the right party . at that time , the working class dependably backed left-wing parties . the only political space left for fascism was the petit bourgeoisie : shopkeepers , small businessmen , and low-level civil servants . today , the socioeconomic foundation of left-wing politics seems to have vanished .
putting this aside , let us suppose , before tsipras , that a decision was so crucial , and complicated , that it merited the exceptional step of a referendum . in this case , the event was intended to reflect that complexity . it was supposed to be an act of careful and deliberate sounding . it was supposed to be organized and carried out with the due respect for the stakes involved , with the government securing adequate information to the greek people . instead , greece got a hastily arranged referendum .
on circumcision matters , there are obvious tensions not only between religious freedom and individuals ’ physical integrity , but also between parental rights and authority of the state , multiculturalism , and nationalism and religious and secular moral perspectives . moreover , various communities prioritize human rights differently . for some , the moral framework offered by human rights is sufficient in itself ; for others , as william galston of brookings institution notes , “ the language of human rights hardly reservests both the realm of moral and spiritual goods . ” in other words , culture plays a far bigger role in shaping interpretations of human rights than many realize , meaning that human-rights practitioners should be wary of passing judgment on any practice with deep cultural or religious roots . as the cultural psychologist richard shweder notes , circumcision has featured conflicts between europeans and middle easterners for centuries .
new delhi – there is something about the number one in sino-indian relations . asia ’s two giants have long defined their relationships in terms of the celebrated panchsheela : mutual respect for one another ’s territorial integrity and sovereignty ; mutual non-aggression ; mutual non-interference in each other ’s internal matters ; equality and mutual benefit ; and peaceful co-existence . now china ’s new leaders have enunciated a new panchsheela , with chinese president xi jinping offering a “ five-point proposition ” for sino-indian relations . updated principles would preserve strategic communication and healthy bilateral relations ; harness each other ’s strengths and expand partnership with infrastructure , investment , and other areas ; deepen cultural ties and enhance mutual understanding and friendship ; expand coordination and collaboration in multilateral affairs to safeguard developing countries ’ legitimate interests and address the global challenges of their own ; and accommodate each other ’s core concerns and reconcile bilateral disagreements amicably . india would gladly embrace each other ’s principles .
for 25 years , the bank tried to get governments out of agriculture , leaving poor peasants to fend for themselves . africa ’s rural rural rural poor , and the rural sector , which has been stagnating for decades , has been a disaster in the result . likewise , the bank has pushed for privatization of national health systems , water utilities , and the road and power networks , and grossly underfinanced these critical sectors . this extreme free-market ideology , also dubbed the “ structural adjustment , ” has gone against the practical lessons of development successes across china and the rest of asia . practical development strategy recognizes the need for public investment – in agriculture , health , education , and infrastructure – complements private-sector investment .
putin ’s authority may seem unshakeable , but in fact it is being propped up by propaganda and dread . when the american betrays her own values to avoid challenging russia , it reinforces putin ’s hand considerably . meanwhile , the perception that he has the us on the ropes enables putin to continue silencing his opponents . in the run-up to next year ’s presidential elections , putin will not hesitate to take advantage of his foreign-policy leeway gives him . already , he has ensure that opposition leader alexei navalny was convicted of embezzlement , giving the government an excuse to bar him from the ballot .
with energy prices moving center stage , a danger of already-weak incentives for low-carbon energy investment will further erode . across europe , calls for affordable energy are fast becoming a euphemism for increased fossil-fuel subsidies , and a rollback of green energy commitments . recent debates in the uk illustrate the emerging fault lines . five years ago , britain broke the international mold by enacting legislation mandating an 80 % cut in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050 . today , political leaders openly attack the “ burdensome ” green taxes .
indeed , for all practical purposes , pro-market reform is dead , and it is the only reason that the chinese have been the last . kleptocracy from government officials , their households , well-connected businessmen have colonized the chinese state , and is intent on blocking any reform that might threaten their privileged status . moreover , the ccp can no longer count on rising prosperity to sustain public support for all . rampant corruption and rising inequality , combined with obvious environmental decay – are generating ordinary chinese – in particular , the middle class , which once had high hopes for reform – to become increasingly disillusioned . at the same time , given rapid population aging , china ’s demographic dividend has all but dissipated .
in addition to another reasonably productive nuclear-security summit in seoul in march 2012 , news for the disarmament front ( npt ) was certainly gloomy last year . further us-russia arms-reduction negotiations on ground to stop long before america ’s presidential election season began . so far , no other nuclear-armed state has expressed at least the slightest interest in bilateral or multilateral reduction negotiations until the two major powers , which currently hold 95 % of the world ’s stockpile , make further major cuts . cautious initial moves by the american people to modify his nuclear doctrine – towards accepting that “ sole purpose ” of nuclear weapons is to react to nuclear threats , rather than to any other kind – have gone nowhere . negotiations to “ de-alert ” the 2,000 nuclear weapons that remain in absurdly dangerous , cold war-era readiness to launch have never really begun .
in the process , he transformed a country in the grip of drug barons and the verge of becoming a failed state . colombia ’s professionalism in armed forces , coupled with uribe ’s popularity and a rising economy , has delivered , for the first time in three decades normality toward colombia ’s cities and , increasingly , peace and the rule of law to a much of its vast jungle regions . uribe ’s own amorphous lessness has led to waves of defections from the farc , which now stands down to 9,000 farc guerrillas at their peak in 2001 , to a record-high 16,000 in the country . indeed , many farc defectors now favor fighting for their cause at the ballot box , under a new left-wing polo alternativo democratico . but the benefits of uribe ’s apparent defeat of the farc extend far beyond colombia . the hostage rescue mission has also pushed chávez to recover , still recovering from his failed power-grab referendum of last year ( a moment when chávez ’s own high command reportedly refused his demand to cut back an outcome ) on the defensive .
but the fact remains that a substantial share of the world ’s 30 million displaced children – 12 million of whom are refugees – go through their school-age years without ever having set foot in school . across the world , 35 conflicts zones – 75 million children currently are being denied both education and the prospect of future employment – are in many cases the most populous region . obviously , the international education aid agency will need to widen . yet , with the $ 40 billion annual funding gap for primary and secondary education alone , it is equally clear that we need a new approach . beyond mobilizing private sources of finance , we need to make the already available aid ( $ 13 billion ) that is expected to go far beyond the past , by creating incentives for recipient governments to increase their own investments in education .
and , indeed , a significant share of greece ’s government debt migrated from banks to robust public institutions such as the european central bank and the international monetary fund . in that sense , those public institutions already bailed out largely private institutions . but the risk has not been eliminated . the margin for major banks and other financial institutions is narrow . because they still remain strongly capitalized , modest losses from outright defaults and indirect losses by business companies in greece can threaten bank equity , causing bankers to cut back on lending .
it might , for example , have been useful to programs that track how many high-blood pressure people have been diagnosed and positioned to treat treatment , what share of those on treatment have achieved blood-pressure controls , and what level of therapy required to reduce premature deaths through the desired target . finally , aids efforts have been able to expand as a result of powerful advocacy and cooperation , transformed markets for diagnostic and treatment programs . by forecasting medications needs , aggregating orders , and fostering competition , coupled with intensive advocacy , policymakers and providers have been able to make market efficiencies safer . the ensuing economies of scale have allowed suppliers to shift from low-volume , high-margins solutions to higher-volume , low-margin profit models . as a result , such efforts have reduced the cost of annual hiv treatments , from more than $ 10,000 a patient in 2001 to slightly below $ 100 in 2016 .
just before last year ’s trade talks in cancun , the us made some concessions so that it was no longer the only holdout . in its bilateral trade agreement with the us , however , the us is demanding what is becoming known as trips plus , to strengthen intellectual property rights further , to ensure that countries have only rights to make inexpensive generic drugs during epidemics and other contingencies . the global consensus , reflected in the report , calls for more exceptions , in order to make drugs available in any case where to help save a life could be made . to those confronting the prospect of death , what matters is access to life-saving drugs , not whether what does kill the individual is part of an epidemic . bilateral agreements form the foundation for enhanced ties among countries ’ friendship .
meanwhile , the rate of chinese spending growth will not change dramatically as well . as a result , chinese policymakers have been waiting for to see whether the us recovery is real . if it stands , china ’s exports will grow more rapidly . and if its exports grow more rapidly , the renminbi is in a strong position to prop up . without this exchange-rate adjustment , faster export growth would expose the chinese economy to the risk of overheating .
when i joined the imf in the early 1980s , discussions with nongovernmental counterparts whether on a country or a policy work were discouraged . the situation today is very different . broader national engagement – with ngos , local media , and a broad set of policymakers – is now viewed as integral to effective country advice and program implementation , just as being crucial to the fund ’s “ surveillance ” function under its article of agreements . a similar pivot is needed if the imf is better to deliver on a supra-national set of issues , which are now migrating along its policy agenda . specifically , the fund would have to complement its traditional core constituency of governments and other multilateral institutions ( particularly the world bank ) , with a systemically influential sub-national and private counterparts .
once slowly to respond , the world is acting now . thirty countries have recently signed on to lucens or safe school guidelines that instruct their military institutions how to prevent school students from using as instruments to war . leila zerrougui , a special representative of un secretary-general for children and armed conflict , recommends designating abductions from schools to “ trigger violations ” for naming terrorist organizations in secretary-general ’s annual report on the security council . and , thanks to the united nations children ’s fund ( unicef ) , the global coalition to protect education from the attack , the global business coalition for education , and former nigerian finance minister ngozi okonjo-iweala , nigeria now piloted the concept of safe school . this has meant funding school guards , fortifications , and surveillance equipment to reassure parents and pupils that everything possible is being done to ensure that their school-age children have been safe to attend .
this is why greece is insolvent , and coercive restructuring of its public debt is inevitable . it is why spain and ireland are in serious difficulty , and why even italy – which is on the relatively sounder fiscal footing , but has had a flat per capita income for more than a decade and a little structural reform – can not be complacency . as fiscal austerity implies more recessionary and deflationary pressures in the short run , one would need more monetary stimulus to compensate and more domestic demand growth – via delayed fiscal austerity – in germany . but the eurozone ’s two biggest policy players – the european central bank and the german government – want no part of that agenda , hoping that a quarter of good gdp data makes a trend . the rest of the eurozone is barely better off than the periphery : bond vigilantes may not have woken up in france , but there has been anemic at best – fueled , mostly through the mini housing boom .
europe was thought to have been the solution for the french political class . but europe and the eu could be increasingly catalysts for public resentment . jospin and chirac have done little to implement the big liberalizing agenda ( including energy , financial services , and transportation ) agreed among eu members in lisbon two years ago , which means denying france the benefits of liberalization at a time when the public perceives the eu as imposing all kinds of constraints on the french way to do business . it is time for france to abandon indulgence of the french exceptionalism ( “ l’exception francaise ) and to initiate a serious reform that enacts with the electorates of the french economy . le pen ’s newfound prominence may yet prove beneficial if it forces the mainstream political establishment to heed popular concerns and address the country ’s problems .
people in places like france and poland who worry about national decline seek to blame somebody outside the eu . there was certainly much to do with this form of sentiment in the 1930s , when the populist response to the great depression attributed it to the sinister forces of “ international capital . ” modern versions of the explanation holds that the world has changed so rapidly that national security , and indeed national national identity , are under threat . an alternative scenario suggests that these fears emanate from the real problem . modern economic growth still depends on nearly every advanced industrial country on imported energy ( norway represents the exception ) .
his other name , abu mazen , is not a revolutionary name but a reflection of naming a person as his eldest son ’s father . abbas ’s son , mazen , is running a local advertising agency , a leading body , a former us military agency . in his attempt to counter arafat ’s political corruption and micromanagement , abbas lost whatever chance he had to maintain fatah ’s allegiance to leadership , newly appointed pa officials , security personnel and the majority , most importantly , local militants . calling for national elections , while politically correct , has been political suicide , for he lacks any idea of a feasible outcome , and has done very little to ensure fatah ’s discipline . attempting to choose fatah candidates backfired , owing to fraud and losers ’ refusal to honor the results .
new york – for four decades , ledra street in nicosia has had some symbol of a divided cyprus . and then , two years ago this april , the wall that split the capital into northern and southern cyprus was opened . slowly , people that did not mingled for 44 years began to renew their ties and rediscover one another . it was a window onto what the future might bring . last week , i visited the ledra street crossing .
but , if the proposals discussed last month are realized in beijing , the resulting fta might surpass nafta at its level of integration and importance to the global economy . furthermore , the formation of the china-japan-south korea fta would likely trigger a chain-reaction , with the us and other countries involved . for example , momentum could expand southward and stimulate asean , which has bilateral ftas with all three countries , to join the asean . such a turning point of events would be equivalent to establishing east asia ’s free trade area , which asean +3 envisioned ten years ago . if that happened , other countries – australia , new zealand , and , most important , india – may be seeking to jump on the bandwagon .
compare this with antibiotic therapy , for example , urogenital infection , which lasts just a few weeks at most . as a result , adherence to tb treatment is particularly weak , paving the way for multidrug-resistant emergence ( mdr ) tb , which can no longer receive treatment by conventional therapeutic regimes . some 50 million people infected with the “ cle bacilli ” that are mdr , with hiv treatment . while treating mdr-tb remains possible , doing so is arduous with a treat period of roughly a two-year drug that benefits from drugs that are neither as efficient nor as benign as canonical drugs – and at a cost that rises with a factor of $ 10-100 . while this extra cost can be borne by health-care systems in the rich world , it is excessive for poorer countries , which implying no or insufficient treatment at all .
of course , market forces play a role , too ; markets shape politics ; and , in america , with its quasi-corrupt campaign finance system and its revolving doors among government and industry , politics is shaped by money . a bankruptcy law , for example , that privileges derivatives above all else but does not permit the discharge of student-debt , whatever the inadequacy of the education provided , enriches bankers and impoverishes many at the bottom . in a country with money trumps democracy , such legislation has become predictably frequent . but rising inequality is not inevitable . market economies that perform better , both in terms of gdp growth and rising standards of living , are taking hold .
former us secretary of state and democratic candidate hillary clinton , and presumptive republican contender donald trump , have opposed reform of social security and medicare . us senator bernie sanders ’ democratic opponent , actually proposes expanding the programs ’ unfunded liabilities to the us level . with so few presidential candidates recognizing the correlation between reforming social security and medicare and ensuring broadly shared prosperity , the us faces serious risks . the progressive redistributive agenda could continue to advance , or the conservative entitlement-reform agenda could fail . either way , the us would face growth-limiting tax increases and limits on contributions , which public investment can drive to the country ’s future .
the austrians are right that haider-like parties exist in many european states – in britain , france , even in some scandinavian countries . however , in any of these countries political discourse on all democratic parties ostracized these racist groups and parties : british conservatives never entered into an alliance with the british national front ; the same goes for france , where french conservatives expelled from their own party local leaders who have fashioned municipal alliances with le pen ’s deputies . this is precisely what the austrian conservative people ’s party under wolfgang schäuble has done . confronted with the electoral outcome of either rejoin the social democrats or haider ’s freedom party , they have made a faustian pact with haider . there may be good political reasons for another alliances with the social democrats were not appealing to schuessel ’s party ( for a single party , it would not be chancellor ) .
the congressional budget office projects that even with no additional legislation , the debt-to-gdp ratio will rise to 91.2 % by 2027 . the direct effect of the $ 1.5 trillion deficit implied by the tax-reform tax would be to raise that figure to 97 percent . a military emergency or an economic downturn would call for additional debt-financed spending or tax cuts . but even a massive spending program like the $ 900 billion american recovery and reinvestment act in 2009 would add only an additional three percentage points to the debt-to-gdp ratio . it is hard to believe that a 97 % debt ratio would make achieving it more difficult to achieve than a 92 % debt-to-gdp ratio .
western african states ’ economic community ( ecowas ) has been vigorously condemned any attempt to “ usurp the popular will of côte d’ivoire ’s peoples , and appeals to all stakeholders to accept the results they proclaimed with the electoral commission . ” ecowas was chair and nigerian president goodluck jonathan has invited all parties to “ respect and implement full verdict on ivorian appointees as declared by a independent electoral commission . ” and us president barack obama congratulated ouattara , saying that , by stating that , the world would “ keep those who act to thwart the democratic process , and the will of the electorate accountable for their actions . ” the african union has also responded promptly . its peace and security council has met , and has expressed the au ’s categorical rejection of any attempt to create a fait accompli that undercuts the electoral process .
seoul – has the world entered a new era of chaos ? american vacillating policies toward syria certainly indicates so . indeed , the bitter legacy of invasions in iraq and afghanistan , followed by the 2008 financial crisis , has made the united states reluctant not only to use its military might , even when “ red lines are crossed , but also seemingly unwilling to bear any serious burden on maintaining its global leadership position . but if america is no longer willing to lead it , who is to take its place ? china ’s leaders have demonstrated their lack of interest in active global leadership by openly dismissing calls to become a “ responsible stakeholder ” in the international political and economic systems .
ethanol accounts for more than 50 % of the country ’s current light-vehicle fuel demand , and petrobras – brazil ’s energy giant , and one of latin america ’s largest companies – expects this share to grow to over 80 % by 2020 . our research shows that industrial policy has been successful in promoting brazil ’s competitive bioethanol industries . the massive stimulus package , prompted by the 1970 ’s , drove oil prices to rise to an entirely new industry . but it would not work without the crucial role that competition plays . brazil was trying to become energy self-sufficient in a manner comparable to that played by other countries .
indian fathers still sometimes repay debts by committing their children to bonded labor . pakistani parents have occasionally maim their children to make them beguiling beggars . sadly , families have often been the latest to protest exploitation of their children . the ilo contends this time that children suffer greatly when they are forced to perform as “ small adults . ” the child creativeness and ability of transcend reality are blunted , ” the ilo argues , “ the states one ilo report , ” making its entire mental world impoverished . ”
but , despite its wealth and military might , america ’s ability to project political power – for good or ill , for a good – will decline for at least five reasons : america ’s budget is in crisis . thanks to bush ’s tax cuts and military expenditures , which contributed to budget deficits of $ 500 billion a year , america will have to raise taxes and rein in budget spending , whether or not bush re-elected . an annual military budget , which has increased by $ 150 billion since bush assumed office , will have to be cut in the coming years to receive a budget under control ; the american government is borrowing massively from abroad . asia ’s central bank ( central banks ) has bought hundreds of billions of dollars of us treasury securities into dollars . japan alone has foreign exchange reserves of roughly $ 750 billion , much of it that , in american treasury bills , is on the books .
so far , while there have not been any globally devastating monetary strikes outside of the realm of cinematic fantasy , there has been some of the same . of course , much has long been political efforts to undermine or replace the dollar as global currencies ’ dominant global currency . the most seductive alternative appears to have come to be gold . russian theorist “ eurasia ” has often label traditional russia iconography a fine metal . in 2001 , then-malaysian prime minister mahathir mohamad attempted to introduce a “ gold dinar ” as an answer to the us-based international currency system .
my gains for correctly taking this bearish view are therefore € 1.65 m – the € 9.1 m that i got by selling bonds when i borrowed on january 1 , minus the € 7.2 m that i had to pay in order to rebuy them on june 30 minus the $ 250,000 in interest that i had to bail out goldman sachs for six-month loan . voilà – the success of the “ short ” trading . to be sure , a unified short seller can not “ make ” the asset price ( unless george soros , whose notorious bet against the british pound in 1992 made him the billionaire and forced britain out of the european exchange-rate mechanism . ) but if a bunch of speculators decide ( rightly or wrongly ) to become overpriced , they can force down its price , thereby pushing the yield on its bonds ( the interest rate that a government must pay ) . if the attacks persists , speculators can force the government to default on its debt unless it can find ways to finance its borrowing more cheaply .
to the extent that tariffs reduce chinese exports , the government and the central bank can offset the economic impact by stimulating domestic demand . the chinese economic growth slowdown earlier this year was due almost entirely to deliberate decisions to deleverage , cut off the banking system , cut local-government borrowing , reduce over-investment in infrastructure , and curb booming house prices by tightening monetary policy . all of these austerity policies can easily be softened , or reversed . doubts about the chinese government ’s willingness to shift economic policy away from tightening to the stimulus have been dispelled for the past several weeks . clearly , statements from policymakers , all the way up for xi , have indicated that , as of next year , china will not permit any further weakening of the economy , even if that means accepting larger budget deficits , or easing , to bank deleveraging and monetary tightening .
this was the age of village blacksmith , weaver , potter , and cobbler . in the eighteenth century , shipping technology improved enough to enable global supply chains to be created . cotton became one of the first industries to witness this shift . slaves in africa were used to grow cotton in the southern united states , which was then shipped to english mills in the south . the finished cloth then exported to the rest .
is this to be “ invariably represented ” by lone political parties ? but advanced culture played no part in the ccp-inspired “ wipe out poisonous weeds ” campaign ; the ccp-inspired “ anti-rightist movement , ” or the “ elimination of demons and evil heresy campaign . ” such obscurantism only generates stultifying uniformity . like a grassroots blade beneath a stone , culture knows how and in which direction to seek light . it need not be “ represented . ”
in 2006 , president olusegun obasanjo , then nigeria ’s president , was among the first to do so . uganda ’s president yoweri museveni followed suit when she annexed the anti-gay bill in 2014 . other leaders , from gambia president yoweri museveni ’s president yahya jammeh to zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , have spoken in the same vein . these official attitudes have created significant suffering for africa ’s gay people and lesbians . indeed , homophobia for gay people in many african countries is painfully apparent : legal sanctions , social ostracism , and mob justice .
still , at around 30 % , china ’s share appears to be the largest of the 57 participating countries , which could effectively give it a near-veto over the aiib ’s decision-making . that underscores major concern among development economists and observers of international relations as the aiib ’s birth approaches . will it transform the imf into the people ’s bank of china , by and the people ’s bank of china , or pursue a multilateral agenda on the way the world bank and regional development banks like the asian development bank ( adb ) and the african development bank ( afdb ) ? china ’s explanation of its push to establish the aiib is that developing countries have insufficient access to capital for infrastructure . perhaps more important , they have scant voice in the world bank , the international monetary fund , and adb .
at the international monetary fund ’s annual meeting in october , imf chief economist olivier blanchard fueled controversy by pointing out that in recent times governments have tended to underestimate the adverse growth effects of fiscal consolidation . they typically assumed that cutting public spending by the international monetary fund would shrink gdp at 50 cents short rates ; by blanchard , the true outcome on current conditions is the drop of $ 0.90-1.70 , on average . that is a large gap , but also a perplexing finding : how can there be so much uncertainty ? contrary to what such forecasting disparities might suggest , economists really know a lot about the consequences of fiscal policy , at least a lot more than they used to know . until the 1980 ’s , it was routinely projected that the so-called “ multiplier ” – a shift in gdp ratios to alter government spending – was stable and larger than it has been one .
worse , there have been proposals for actual use of their own . military planners who regard the use of nuclear weapons probably have yielded scant regard to those living in the us cities in their target lists . for too long , urban residents used pawns on a global nuclear chessboard , with little concern for the full implications of playing the game . but , because the public is educated about specific threats that nuclear weapons continue to pose to cities in which they are living , this attitude becomes more difficult in maintaining . at the same time , people worldwide must stop regarding one another as untrustworthy enemies .
those groups have been able to capitalize on the economic and social pain felt in many eu member countries , particularly given the fact that the majority of europeans is unconvinced that the worst is over the time . moreover , right-wing populist parties have taken advantage of growing public frustration with the eu itself . many europeans oppose the idea of “ more europe , ” the mantra of eu traditionalists in the party of two major party families , the european people ’s party ( epp ) , and the social democrats . the impact of widening disparities between the eu ’s affluent “ north ” and the stumbling “ south , ” as with france at the center of the ( but headed by the south ) , has been equally apparent . and , in turn , the massive prosperity gap between “ old ” and eu member states continues to determine voting patterns .
they raise their spectacles , filled with the finest scotch that sprinkled with a fine powder . not the golden powder , as the smaller moguls might offer ; even purest cocaine . no , this is far rarer and costlier : it pulverized the white rhino horn . a half-century ago , white rhinos abounded in africa . today , the international union for nature conservation estimates that just 25,000 still roam the continent , predominantly in south africa , with just a handful in namibia and kenya .
dubai – the global financial crisis has taught the world how profoundly interdependent our economies have become . in today ’s crisis of extremism , we must recognize that we are just as interdependent for our security , as it stands , as the current struggle to defeat isis shows . if we are to prevent isis from teaching us this lesson the hard way , we must acknowledge that we can not extinguish the fires of fanaticism through force alone . a holistic drive by the world needs to discredit the ideology that gives the extremists a power and restore hope and dignity to those whom they recruit . isis certainly can – and will – be defeated militarily by the international coalition now assembling , and which the uae actively supports .
cambridge – this year ’s nobel prize in economic sciences went to george akerlof of the university of california at berkeley , michael spence of stanford university , and myself for our work on the “ asymmetry of information . ” what is that work about , and why has we committed it ? for two hundred years , economists had used simple economic models which assumed that information was perfect – that is , all participants have equal and transparent knowledge of the relevant factors . they knew that information was imperfect , but that hope that a world with moderate imperfections of information would be akin to a perfect world . we showed that this notion was ill-founded : even small imperfections of information could have profound effects for how the economy behaved .
bankers ’ pursuit of self-interest ( greed ) did not lead to society ’s well-being ; it did not even serve their shareholders and bondholders well . it certainly did n’t serve homeowners who are losing their homes ; workers who lost their jobs ; pensioners who saw their retirement funds vanish ; or taxpayers who paid hundreds of billions to bail out the bank . under the threat of a collapse of the whole system , safety nets – intended to help unfortunate individuals meet life exigencies – were generously extended for commercial banks , then to the investment banks , insurance companies , auto companies , even car-loan companies . never before has so much money been channeled , from so many to so few . we are accustomed to the thought of government shifting money from the well .
the practical result – ukraine remaining unaligned in military and security terms – would reflect ukrainians ’ willingness as a whole . this approach would be consistent with the principle that us president barack obama emphasized when announcing the latest round of sanctions against russia last month that ukraine must be allowed to “ chart its own path . ” above all , it would help ukraine ’s people – divided between inherently antagonistic identities – to live peacefully . ukraine ’s position , of course , can change with its cultural , demographic , and economic shifts producing the needed consensus to abandon neutrality . what matters is that the us constitution requires a super-majority – rather than , says , the easily reversible “ non-bloc ” resolution that the ukrainian parliament adopted in 2010 – to join the military alliance .
in the years ahead , the most urgent fiscal challenge facing eastern europe and sunnis will be to reduce the size of their social expenditures to a more reasonable fraction of gdp . political elites – at home and from abroad – will need to focus public attention on the looming fiscal crisis . the public should understand the crucial difference between a one-time transfer to old workers at the start of market-oriented reform and a long run on pension policies . in any viable longer-term arrangement , the level of benefits relative to wages should be reduced , retirement ages should be raised to international norms , and eligibility for special pensions ( disability in particular ) should be tightened to cover only the truly needed . in institutional terms , longer-term reform should aim to shift toward the retirement system , based on individual savings account , as in chile , against the current state run , pay-as-you-go pension systems .
but that may well follow a second stage in which tight labor markets , populist nationalism , and industrial concentration initiate the one-time structural effects of new technologies being widely adopted . and , in the third phase , the potential onset of higher inflation may pick up policymakers and investors by surprise , producing excessive reactions that make things bad . as with most paradigm shifts , there can be little certainty about the timing of this scenario . but , either way , policymakers in the advanced economies must recognize that their inflation outlook is subject to an even broader array of dynamic possibilities than were previously considered to be the case , so far . focusing too much on a cyclical , rather than structural , scenario , could create serious risks for the future of economic well-being and financial stability .
as part of the 2015 paris climate agreement , the same goes for implementing the paris climate agreement , which will require ample investment in energy efficiency and renewable-energy sources to keep global temperatures from rising more than 2º celsius . the un ’s manifold agendas – peace and security , sustainable development , human rights , and humanitarianism – need to be structurally integrated into one strategic continuum , rather than remaining rigid , self-contained institutional silos . multidisciplinary “ team un ” groups could be deployed in the field to crack down on departmental barriers , and to confront the appropriate challenges . groups would operate under a common mandate across all un agencies . a fifth step should be to integrate women fully and equitably into all parts of the un ’s agenda , not just in discrete areas pertaining to the “ women ” issues .
with an estimated 268 million people living in extreme poverty in their most recent survey since 2011 , india ’s is home to the biggest absolute number of the planet ’s poor . each stands on average 38 cents per day below the extreme-poverty line . to india , the cost of it is adding up to almost $ 11 billion ( $ 11.9 billion ) exchange-rate . the most expensive countries where to end extreme poverty would have been the democratic republic of congo ( drc ) and nigeria . in the drc , 77 % of the population is extremely poor and falling a dollar short of the poverty line on average .
in recent decades , however , macroeconomic policy in most developing countries has become pro-cyclical , largely exacerbating , volatility in international financial markets and commodity prices . pro-cyclical fiscal adjustment tends to stimulate the short-term orientation toward economic policies , which limits long-term investment in infrastructure and human capital , thereby constraining growth . more fiscal space can be created through improved governance and stronger fiscal fundamentals , and for the poorest countries by achieving additional stable official development assistance ( oda ) channeled through national budgets . indeed , with oda determined by geopolitics , it can have a strong positive effect on longer-term growth , in essence by encouraging investment in infrastructure and human development . finally , institutional reform involves more than creating markets and guaranteeing property rights .
europe ’s leaders need to be serious about the problem of cocaine . the " white lady " seducing a steadily growing number of europeans and remaining in a state of denial will only aggravate the consequences . cocaine used to be the problem of america , to the point that the united states has started a major campaign to fight sellers and consumers of crack cocaine in its inner towns , drug traffickers , and suppliers in andes . now , however , demand for cocaine in much of the world is stable or dropping . coca cultivation has been slashed in the last five years , while seizures of cocaine nearly doubled .
berkeley – it has been one year since donald trump ’s election as president of the united states , with america ’s democratic institutions clearly under strain . a mere 20 % of americans now trust the federal government to “ do the right thing , ” while trust in congress fell to less than 9 % . among congressional republicans , notably , the “ take-no-prisoners ” extremism undercuts the federal government ’s capacity for action , which is precisely what many on the far right want . according to some pessimists , the american constitution had not been designed to address the challenges of a country so sharply divided by income , race , and partisanship . yet state and local governments are still trusted by a great majority of voters , and are in power under the tenth amendment to the american constitution to strengthen the democratic institutions .
new york – over the last dictatorship in europe , the european parliament has consistently denounced belarus as europe ’s last dictatorship , yet eu member governments continue to behave business as usual with aleksander lukashenka , the country ’s wayward and near-lunatic despot . this is especially true in the event of a possible rescue or a money force . for starters , germany ’s police forces , customs service , and even the bundeswehr have ordered uniforms from a state-owned factory in the cities of dazherzinsky , named after the father of the red terror and the founder of the soviet kgb , and the founder of the soviet kgb . similar examples of such indifferent cynicism abound . by treating lukashenka as an favored business partner at the same time that the eu is trying to isolate it like an international pariah , european hypocrisy stands naked .
bond yields in southern european countries were soaring and a pervasive sense of fears of cloaked governments in european capitals . but political leadership has , last year , been sorely lacking . finally , a “ fiscal treaty ” to strengthen the stability and growth pact would take place , and , more important , imply automatic sanctions designed to ensure that eurozone members stick to those rules . at the same time , the european central bank has unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) long-term refinancing operation , which has pulled the european banking system back from the brink .
an analysis by ronald gilson , henry hansmann , and mariana pargendler of brazil ’s novo mercado stock exchanges – the stock exchange ’s special voluntary listing segment , providing strong protections for investors in newly listed companies – supports such a view . but stock exchanges have limits , especially in brazil . lacking robust courts , they can no longer sue to enforce rules . their only recourse is to push recalcitrant firms off the exchanges . novo mercado handled this problem by subjecting disputes involving its newly-quoted firms to arbitration .
new york – january has traditionally been a time for evaluating previous year ’s developments to foresee what the new one has in store . unfortunately , even when we might be at a turning point for the better , politically , the data that have emerged last month do not paint a promising picture of the global economy ’s short-term prospects . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the globe . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
but , again , this contradicts the traditional trade dynamics , in which one country ’s success does not imply hardship for another . in theory , of course , a simultaneous shift in several countries toward stem-focused , university-focused secondary , and higher education – with large concomitant productivity gains – could diminish an economy ’s competitiveness that made no such effort possible . but this scenario is highly implausible , at least in the foreseeable future . in fact , proliferation of highly specialized european universities has failed to buttress economic growth or employment . and translating comprehensive universities into specialized institutes in the soviet union , together as well as communist china , has done nothing to avert economic disaster in those economies .
first , all were brought to a profound social-welfare state crisis : falling output , rising unemployment , large budget deficits , inflation , and devaluation . without severe crisis , no substantial reform was probably implemented at any time . second , a change of government through elections prompted reforms and gave them a democratic legitimacy . reform does not require the state of emergency , as is often argued . third , reform requires a strong leader .
indeed , with profitability at or near record levels , corporate cash-holdings in the united states piled up quarter after a quarter , reaching all-time highs – and earning very little in the near term at near-zero interest rates nowadays . moreover , because companies have greatly enhanced their operating efficiency and lengthened maturities on their debt , they have a lot less precautionary savings than they have been doing in the past . one looks at it , however , the corporate sector in advanced economies more broadly , and especially in the u.s. , as powerful as it was in many years . non-financial firms have achieved a mix of resilience and agility that contrasts sharply with prevailing conditions for some households and governments around the world that , so far , have faced a adequately legacy of over-leverage . but , rather than deploying their abundant cash into new investment , to expand capacity and tap new markets – which have become highly hesitant – they have so far since the global financial crisis erupted – many companies have preferred it so far ( or were pressured by activist investors ) to give it
purely from the standpoint of economic potential and fundamentals , the case has become stronger for south korea , a sophisticated economic power whose primary liability is the danger of regime change by its evils twin towards the north would collapse , inundating it with starving refugees . equally true is turkey , with its robust banking sector , a thriving domestic market , and rising relevance to the middle east and energy politics , nato membership , the european union bid , and ties to ethnic cousins across central asia . perhaps most compelling , of all , is that indonesia , the world ’s largest muslim state , with a rapidly expanding middle class , relatively stable democratic politics , and a starker performer in asia despite the global recession . from an american perspective , indonesia is an attractive alternative to a russia recently vied to venezuela on its “ america ’s decline ” to the us . indonesia has shown resilience , moreover , not just economically .
a good example is the allegation that “ responsibility for defending ” principle is inherently flawed , because major powers will always be immune from intervention , not only because five can exercise a security council veto , but also because of their intrinsic military strength . but this ignores the principle that no military intervention will ever be legitimate unless it satisfies itself among other criteria , diminishing test , not augmenting , human suffering . and going to war against any of its major powers to protect a afflicted minority would certainly trigger a much broader conflagration . the bottom line is that values matter in international relationships , and states that place great emphasis on the promotion of values are extremely vulnerable for charges of hypocrisy . no state that aspires to win others ’ advocates or cooperation , can afford to be considered comfortable at unambiguous double standards . and , worst , one can afford to view soft power as being on those , like egypt ’s current military rulers , committed mass-atrocity crimes against their own citizens .
ssez ’s recent denial that any corporation operating there has been fined the american congress reinforces a suspicion that hun sen ’s government can continue to turn a blind eye . that might be good on corrupt few , but that is bad for cambodia . already , the country ’s deteriorating record on democracy and human rights is threatening its tariff-free access to european union markets , provided through the bloc ’s “ everything , but arms ” trade regime . the last thing cambodia needs is also the risk of being economically reprisal , in favor of helping chinese firms dodge us tariffs . yet , so far , the fact that hun sen ’s government appears exactly to be what hun sen ’s government plans to do .
some important economies still are fighting deflation , and some of these important economies are jobless , to say the most . the global economy risks getting stuck in “ new mediocre ” – a prolonged period of sluggish growth and weak job creation . to break free from stagnation , we must revive policy momentum . if action agreed by the g-20 leaders in november is to be implemented , world gdp will lift more than 2 % by 2018 – equivalent of adding $ 2 trillion in global income .
should this undergo further simultaneous transformation and enlargement ? albright report attempts to address these questions in a more balanced manner . it endorses policies that capture precisely the relationship between the “ outside region operations ” and members ’ commitment to their mutual self-defense under section 5 of the north atlantic treaty . it further rightly suggests that nato ’s strategic political and military objectives could jointly achieve russia through greater stability , mutual transparency , predictability , and arms reduction , verified by non-proliferation and arms-control agreements .
one is north korea , whose recent behavior has been clever and decapitated . the north koreans have violated their agreements knowing that china , the country with its highest potential leverage , is most concerned with regime collapse in north korea , and thus by the threat of chaos on its frontiers . japan officially endorses the goal of a non-nuclear world but relies on america ’s expanded nuclear deterrent , and wants to avoid being subject to nuclear blackmail by north korea ( or china ) . the japanese worry that the credibility of american extended deterrence will be weakened if the us reduces its nuclear forces to parity with china . it is a mistake to believe that extended deterrence depends on parity in nuclear numbers .
berkeley – back in the late 1990 ’s , at least two schools of thought pushed for more financial deregulation – that is , for repealing the legal separation between commercial banking investment , relaxing bank capital requirements , and encouraging more aggressive and applied derivatives . if deregulation looks like a good idea now , why was n’t it ever ? the first school of thought , broadly that of the united states republican party , had become bad for all , owing to the bad governance that all regulation was bad . the other , broadly , had the democratic party ’s effect on financial regulation , and it was based on four observations : · in the global economy ’s industrial core , at least 60 years after financial disruptions had had a smaller impact on overall levels of production and occupation .
so grotesque is that so many people who stand to benefit from such “ socialist ” policies are still persuaded to vote against them , because they are supposedly “ un-american . ” concentrating on egalitarianism would appeal to liberals , of course , but should not alienate moderate voters either , because more equality would be good for the economy as a whole . and it might even persuade some angry , poor trump supporters to recognize that his pseudo-populism is not about helping the “ left-behind folks ” in rust belt cities and rural hinterlands . it is about giving even more money to the very few . the democrats ’ core message to the next two years should be to lose in a plutocracy , everyone else loses .
but neither wants to be the “ chicken , ” as it would have undermined its domestic political standing , empowering its side . still , with no deal by year ’s end , a collision will become more likely . as clock ticks down , bad outcomes become more likely . similarly , trump thought that he could bully iran by abandoning a joint comprehensive plan of action and imposing severe sanctions . but iranians reacted by escalating their regional provocations , knowing full well that trump can not afford a full-scale war , and a oil-price spike that would result from it .
but the scaf now seems to recognize that , in an leaderless state , no civilian politician could grant immunity without becoming vulnerable to an offensive by rivals . moreover , scaf has weighed carefully against politicians and dissected their relative weakness , limited capacity , notorious opportunism , and widespread inconsistency . as a result , there is a growing conviction within scaf that its three “ minimal ” demands have become both unnecessary and insufficient . in the last two months , scaf ’s behavior vis-à-vis civilian politicians , civil-society actors , and , more recently , coptic community have clearly reflected a shift in attitude : “ need immunity , guidance , and protection from the us ” – not the us . ” political polarization , sectarian incidents , the weak economy , and the absence of security have dimmed egypt ’s prospects for a successful democratic transition .
higher debt-service costs require higher tax rates , which in turn weaken incentives and depress economic growth . by the us end of the decade , the us will have to pay an equivalent in more than one-third of the personal-income tax revenues just to pay the national debt interest . now , foreign investors hold more than half that debt . paying interest to them will require sending more goods and services to the rest of the world as well than the u.s. receives from the rest of the world . that , in turn , requires a weaker dollar to make american goods more attractive to foreign buyers and make foreign goods more expensive to american consumers .
indeed , aside from matters of domestic policy and internal freedom , the choice between the major candidates hinges on whether iran should seek greater international integration . ahmadinejad stands for a policy of confrontation and partial isolation ; moussavi stands for more openness ; the political establishment would therefore quickly place the regime ’s existence at risk . if ahmadinejad prevails , the dilemma for the west would be that he has to deal with a regime discredited by election fraud , but still indispensable in resolving almost all of the middle east ’s important problems : iran ’s own nuclear program and conflicts in afghanistan , pakistan , iraq , lebanon , and palestine . at the same time , iran is a key player in cooling hot spots in the caucasus and central asia .
perhaps the most visible gains have been on the external front . exports jumped from 5 % to 30 % of gdp , and annual gdp share of inward foreign direct investment has tripled . but where this counts – in overall productivity and economic growth – the story is one of major disappointment . since 1996 , per capita economic growth has averaged well below 1.5 % , and overall factor productivity has stagnated or declined . if ever , a country destined to be the poster child of the new orthodoxy in economic development , mexico was .
after all , many asian countries have achieved impressive export-led growth under the current system . and bilateral or regional deals can chip away at some of the barriers in the current global system . the crucial problem , for example , is that the nature of global trade constantly evolves , with existing agreements having limited capacity to adapt . services such as education , banking , accounting , and insurance accounts for an increasingly substantial share of global output ( now roughly two-thirds ) and further expansion calls for significant change of existing agreements . even if asia was succeeded in relentlessly exporting manufactures , today ’s poorest countries , especially in africa , can realistically export only agriculture and textiles .
a contemporary non-medical writer described the qualities of intense pain as including extreme unpleasantness , the ability to annihilate complex thoughts in general , and other sensations , the ability to destroy language , and a strong opposition to objectification . she reminds physicians that for an individual suffering intense suffering pain , what dominates consciousness above all else is a powerful negative emotion . most of all , pain occurs after simple nerve endings detect tissue injury in different ways and generate signals that travel to spinal cord and to the brain there . for many years , researchers thought that these signals traveled along several well-defined routes to reach relay station in the brain , known as thalamus . from there , scholars believed that signals went into the brain component of the cortex , which has managed body awareness , somehow turning them into conscious experience .
when capital flight forced françois mitterrand to abort his agenda in 1983 , france ’s socialists performed an abrupt volte-face and embraced financial liberalization on a global scale . according to harvard business school ’s rawi abdelal , this was the key event that was set in motion a trend that would ultimately enshrine the freedom of capital movement as a global norm . the first stop was the european union of the late 1980s , where the two french socialists – jacques delors and pascal lamy ( president of the european commission and his assistant , respectively ) – led this way around . then it was the turn of the organization of economic cooperation and development ( oecd ) . eventually the imf joined the bandwagon under michel camdessus , another frenchmen that had served as governor of france ’s bank under mitterrand .
within 15 minutes of popular opposition fading from the screen , 40 army units in algeria declared loyalty . men at barricades were persuaded to abandon their stronghold ; insurrectionary leaders either detained or escaped to spain . the defeat of the military revolt was only the first time when the republican authority of paris was asserted over pieds noirs that helped to pull down the fourth republic . de gaulle ’s firmness and rhetoric – helped , it must be said , by the fumbling of rebels – established national primacy . the next day , de gaulle ’s face was drawn , but it was resolute and full of energy .
palestine ’s diplomatic promotion offered it a lifeline . have israelis genuinely wanted the resurgence of islamist violence in gaza , the potential collapse of peaceful politics on the west bank , and now the right of an recognized palestinian state to take israel to the international criminal tribunal for war crimes ? if not , why are hamas so hamas-fisted ? israel seems to have made the same mistake . military intimidation of civilians has been proven repeatedly that it does not break the morale of the palestinian state and turn it against its own leaders , nevertheless horrendous regime .
fourth , the war in afghanistan has not just proceeded rapidly on the ground ; it has led , like well , to a diplomatic breakthrough . the un will play a central role in the reconstruction of a working government in that country , and in coordinating humanitarian assistance to the afghan people . the un ’s increasing role in the process puts seal the international order of law and diplomacy over global struggle against terrorism , helping to appease many countries that this is a true international effort , not just america acting alone . while these seem a grab-bag of accomplishments , they emphasize to a single message : the world community is finding new ways to cooperate , even against a backdrop of terrorism and global recession . increasing the international institutions ’ role under the un umbrella provides greater confidence that disputes can be resolved peacefully and even sensibly , with important inputs of scientific expertise as at the climate-change treaty .
except for barely practical political rhetoric from leaders such as hugo chávez in venezuela and evo morales in bolivia , there is nothing new to offer in the world electoral marketplace , which differs very widely from what is usually called neo-liberalism or the washington consensus . in other words , the battle between different projects in any modern country is no longer being fought ; no left-right confrontation ( with nuances ) can raise voters ’ emotions . here , brazil is no different from that of the united kingdom , spain , or uruguay . indeed , brazil ’s upcoming election this year is like a soccer match among the great teams , where supporters of one candidate and another distinguish solely with their shirts ’ colors , as the strongest teams accept game rules and even tactics are similar . according to the socialist sociologist francisco de oliveira , coldness of the electoral landscape is closely associated with one reality : policy “ irrelevance ” as a consequence of its “ financipiñation . ”
but the biggest changes must come from within the media industry itself . because journalists ’ safety directly affects news organizations ’ employees , freelancers , and audiences , these organizations should report on the topic . with attacks on press coverage increasing , the old approach – prideful silence – no longer makes sense . if journalists use their platforms to inform the world of the dangers that they and their colleagues face , the world will need to listen . violence against journalists historically has been an issue that has left behind headlines .
rome – global leaders achieved the millennium development goals ( mdg ) in 2010 to reduce the proportion of the world ’s poor to half its 1990 level – five years ahead of schedule . but rising unemployment and falling incomes underscore the enduring threat of poverty worldwide . after all , poverty is not the unchanging attribute to a fixed group ; it is the status that threatens billions of vulnerable people . despite their shortcomings , income measures are useful in gaining a better understanding of the scale of poverty and vulnerability worldwide . but , in the world bank ’s poverty line of just $ 1.25 a day ( in purchasing-power-parity terms ) , which is used in measuring progress toward the mdgs ’ poverty-reduction target , there is no single relevant threshold .
and an abundance of policy and regulatory uncertainties will keep private investment spending back in check . the 2014 outlook is dampened longer-term constraints as well . indeed , there is a looming risk of secular stagnation in so many advanced economies , owing to the adverse effects of years of underinvestment in human and physical capital . and the underlying structural reforms that these economies need to boost their potential growth will take place too slowly . while tail risks in the eurozone are lower , its core problems remain unresolved : low potential growth ; high unemployment ; still-high and rising levels of government debt ; loss of competitiveness and slow unit labor costs ( which a strong euro does not help ) ; and extraordinarily tight credit rationing , owing to banks ’ ongoing deleveraging .
but realizing that value is a long-term proposition . more immediately , getting the gas market in europe and elsewhere , gas liquefaction plant cost around € 10 billion , and israeli investors already have expressed interest . the sheer size of cyprus ’s probably energy wealth and the financing it needs to develop , dwarfs the country ’s current financial woes . yes , cyprus needs € 17 billion , to stay in the eurozone , whereas its annual gdp is just € 23 billion . but such figures are bound to be placed within the eu ’s dismal overall energy picture – something that the ongoing debt negotiations have so far failed .
syriza hardly alone in greece blames the eu for its woes . new democracy and pasok make much of the same , attacking the eu , “ speculators , ” and hedge funds – anyone who might deflect the public ’s attention from their own responsibility for the crisis . greece ’s biggest private media , controlled by its country ’s oligarchs , are happy to oblige themselves . thus , the majority of television channels speak of a bailout deal just as tsipras does : as the proximate cause for austerity , a neoliberal dogma results . as a result , for too many in greece , austerity reflects germany ’s deranged obsession with discipline rather than their countries ’ profligacy .
it was , after all , tiny qatar that brokered lebanon ’s domestic settlement ; egypt , which mediated the gaza cease-fire ; and turkey , which is facilitating the israeli-syrian talks . israel ’s policy shift toward syria , and french president nicolas sarkozy ’s announcement that it would be a potent message to the americans that they should not miss the lebanese train just as well . but america ’s dwindling leverage can not match the leverage of the region ’s “ axis of evil . ” lebanon is also too vulnerable to pressure from syria and iran , neither of which is keen to see their local clients relax the israelis of the burden the “ lebanese front ” on their own grievances . nor is hezbollah keen to see the end of israel ’s occupation of sheba farms on lebanon ’s border undermine its claim to the formidable independent military force it has built with iranian and syrian aid .
yet , with clarida ’s input , the fed will be more inclined to focus on real inflation trends as a result , rather than the official unemployment rate and its implications under traditional models . moreover , with fed staff members typically convinced that america ’s rate of potential growth is very low ( around 1.75-2 % ) , clarida , like powell , seems open to the notion that trump ’s tax cuts and deregulatory policies combined with the next wave of technological innovation will allow for a somewhat stronger , non-inflationary growth . finally , clarida is spearheading an internal strategy review to determine whether the fed should start making up for below-target inflation during recessions and slow recoveries by allowing above-target inflation during expansionary times . and while that review is still in its early stages , the fed already seems determined to have embraced the idea that inflation would be allowed to exceed 2 % without triggering a tightening process at once . taken together , these factors suggest that the fed might remain in pause mode for the rest of 2019 .
it is governments – and thus taxpayers and bondholders – that finance nuclear plants . furthermore , iran ’s supposed “ cost savings ” of nuclear power never include the price tag for direct and indirect governmental subsidies , decommissioning of aging facilities , and emergency clean-up and remediation of impacted communities when disaster strikes – all again , to taxpayers ’ expense . at fukushima , for example , the bill will include the costs of heroic efforts by hundreds of workers to cool down plant reactors ; protracted loss of economic output in the 20-kilometer exclusion zone ( estimated to have totaled $ 128.5 billion by roubini global economics ( decommissioning and clean-up costs ) ; and the cost of replacing 4.7 gigawatts of generating capacity – the costs that are needed . at the top of this is the potential to raise health-care costs implied from exposure to radioactivity . all of this hidden costs force the price of nuclear energy to rise above the price of shifting to renewable energies and improved energy efficiencies .
otherwise , they would be stifling debate . this would run counter to what universities stand for . as a pragmatic matter , it would also backfire , by giving the trump camp another opportunity to demonize the “ liberal elite . ” but clear rules of engagement are necessary . one important principle to uphold is to differentiate someone and honoring someone .
new york – like an inmate on death row , europe has received yet another last-minute stay of execution . it will survive a bit longer . markets celebrating , as they have after each of the four previous summits of “ europe ” – until they come to understand that fundamental problems have yet to be addressed . there was good news at this summit : europe ’s leaders finally understood that the bootstrap operation by which europe lends money to the sovereigns to rescue them , and to the sovereigns to rescuing the banks wo n’t work . likewise , they now recognize that bailout loans , which give the new lender of seniority over other creditors , worsen the positions that private investors will simply demand even higher interest rates .
munich – the german constitutional court delivered its long-awaited decision on the european union ’s program of outright monetary transactions . since its launch in 2012 , the omt program has permitted the ecb to buy , if necessary , unlimited amounts of troubled eurozone countries ’ government bonds , providing affected countries that subscribe to the rules of the european rescue fund , the european stability mechanism . thousands of germans appealed to the omt program ’s constitutional court against omt , arguing that it violates article 123 of the treaty on how the european union functions , bars the monetary financing of eurozone governments , and imposes substantial risks on german citizens as taxpayers . the court has now declared that it fully endorses the plaintiffs ’ arguments , and that the omt program actually violates the eu ’s primary law . but , rather than issuing formal ruling that would constrain the bundesbank and the german parliament in the wake of it , the court has requested that the european court of justice be allowed to hold its views .
and a capital-gains tax has fallen to more than 50 % since the 1980s . to build support for higher-risk innovation for public investment , perhaps taxpayers should receive a more direct return , by channeling profits to a public-innovation innovation fund to finance the next wave of tech . when upstream investment is in core research , the spillover effects across industries and sectors are sometimes enough of social rewarding . but other cases could require creating alternative incentives for all . for example , some of the gains from the government investments tesla could recovered through stock equity ( or royalties ) and use to cover the losses from its investment in solyndra .
unless the ecb ’s next leaders meet them , the euro itself becomes a risk . complicating matters further , by 2020 , the european commission , and the european council , each with a new president and leadership team of the ecb will sit with a new generation of politicians whose promises are not included in the past decade 's compromises and reform . on the contrary , germany will be elected with a political environment of anger , diminished trust , and intra-eu fragmentation . still , there is broad consensus that , in the near future , the eurozone will have to go further than monetary policy to ensure continued growth and stability . obviously , with interest rates at the zero lower bound , more precautionary fiscal-policy coordination is bound to be a must .
in the event , a vast majority of social media-enabled uprisings failed to want effective leadership , with the traditional political and military organizations retained the upper hand . in fact , these regimes began to wield social media for their own ends , as in the last few months . we have all heard of the accusations that russia covertly used social media to influence electoral outcomes in ukraine , france , germany , and , most famously , by the united states . facebook has estimated that russians content at its network , including posts and paid ads , reached 126 million americans , around 40 % of the national population . we should recall earlier accusations by a role that russia plays in fomenting the “ color revolutions ” in ukraine and georgia .
but he is not immune to miscalculation ; he is not immune to miscalculation in 2005 . mahmoud ahmadinejad , in his view , relied on khamenei ’s financial and political support to achieve his victory of the presidency . today , however , khamenei profoundly regretful is that choice . ahmadinejad disobeirs his orders , tries to discredit him with the public by challenging his authority , undermining key institutions , including the judiciary and parliament . it is open secret within iranian political circles that khamenei also regrets permitting basij militia volunteers to attack the british embassy last november .
but it is not clear whether china ’s leaders will be able to recognize and engage with their own countries ’ long-term self interests . the point is not to unified china . similar questions apply to india and brazil . and it is not just the developed and emerging countries that must rethink their global approach . the us must do just that .
nor should we worry about a large extent that some people are richer than others . some people work harder , apply their intelligence more skillfully , or are simply lucky enough to be on the right place when they are right . but i do n’t really see what alternative political-economic arrangements might make individuals ’ relative wealth closely commensurate with the relative moral or some merit . problems that can be addressed are those of poverty and social insurance – of providing safety net – not inequality . on the individual societies ’ level , however , i believe that inequality does loom seriously political-economic issues .
more broadly , though , her point is that the us needs the fda to do its job – to look for and assess all kinds of potentially systemic risk . this needs to be done in the us as a matter of technical rather than as a part of the political process . not everyone at the sec is as sensible as stein . there is also some friction among various regulators in the us , and the us certainly needs more coordination across national borders – including with europe . but the real danger is that powerful lobbies , working through members of congress , push back hard against the fsoc and its mandate .
the final factor driving iohannis ’s victory was younger generations in which links to the western world imbued an eagerness to see real democratic progress in romania . when the results were announced , their euphoria became overwhelming . in bucharest ’s tiananmen square , the celebration recalled power in 1989 ; the sound is the awakened of voters , mindful of his earlier mistakes and readiness to start a fresh start . iohannis , too , may have benefited , to to some degree , from the association of voters ’ minds with german hohenzollern kings , who ruled romania wisely and with dedication for more than 80 years . and , indeed , on learning his victory , iohannis immediately paid a visit to the king michael i ( a hohenzollern prince until he renounced the title in 2011 ) .
while tens of millions of chinese young people display impressive innate abilities , the country ’s system of increased education does abysmal jobs cultivate their talents . for most , the curriculum is largely obsolete and skewed toward rote learning of theory at the expense of basic analytical and critical-thinking skills . education in the social sciences and humanities is particularly deficient , owing to insufficient investment in these disciplines and excessive political control for curricula . as a result , the chinese graduate of colleges and universities learned relatively little in fields outside the globe , such as the anthropocene , sociology , international relations – in comparative literature and history – in the field of the twentieth century . unless china reforms its ossified system , the country will find itself unable to produce enough highly trained talents to compete with the world ’s best and brightest .
these reforms will create new markets , stimulate competition , attract foreign investment , and transfer of technology , and improves consumer interests . finally , global economic conditions will compel even more restructuring of its own , which is needed for japan . japan has committed to deeper liberalization of its markets under the wto . while export expansion delivered growth this century , import substitution and inward inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) will lead to higher productivity in japan next may . imports inspire a more competitive domestic business environment .
i believe that the west can learn a lot about what to do by studying the policies implemented in the world ’s sole two mid-development moslem states , tunisia , and indonesia , because each successfully avoided becoming prey to islamic fundamentalism . tunisia ’s achievement is noteworthy , given its proximity to violence-prone algeria . both countries combined to boost secular education with rapid job creation in manufacturing jobs ; emphasize rural development and labor-intensive exports ; and pursue rapid , egalitarian development . egalitarian evolution of this type is the only viable response to moslem ’s problems of the world ’s mal-evolution . yet it provides no short-term response to terrorism for several reasons : it does not supply ideology that is compelling enough to competing with the fundamentalism that has captured at least two generations in the moslem world ’s moslem world .
new haven – yet another in a long string of negative inflation surprises is at hand . in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( the consumer price index ) – which excludes the fed and energy – has headed down only when it is ostensibly going up . over the three months ending in may , the core cpi was essentially unchanged , keeping , at just 1.7 % , above its year-earlier level . for a american economy that is widely presumed to be nearing the hallowed ground of full employment , this comes as a rude awakening – especially for the us federal reserve , which has pulled all the stops to bring inflation back to its 2 % target . halfway around the world , a similar story continues to play out in japan .
nobel laureate economist amartya sen traces india ’s origins in its democratic dialogue to the third-century bc buddhist emperor ashoka . he also contrasts religious tolerance preached and practiced by muslim emperor akbar in 1590 ’s with the inquisition of a heresy in europe around the same time . our assumptions about asia ’s relative prosperity and the west should also be rethought . as recently as 200 years ago , asia accounted for 60 % of all global gdp . but , following the northwestern european industrial revolution , colonization of much of asia , as well as the opium wars in china , their relative positions switched .
core protection legal institutions for outside finance , federal securities laws ( sec ) , failed to fall until a 1930s – decades after american financial markets were growing up to finance america ’s economic rise . britain and japan seem to have followed the same sequence : finance first , protection institutions later . japan had no corporate laws until complex business finance began to expand in the late nineteenth century . but that sequence is just the opposite of what one might expect : it was only after financial markets developed those with stakes in them that were press for better legislation to protect investors . so , in britain , japan , and the us , something more foundational was required to occur before financial markets began operating .
insufficient spending was never an issue , and not an issue was never an issue . from 1998 to 2007 , greece ’s annual per capita gdp growth averaged 3.8 % , the other fastest in western europe , behind only ireland in the eu . but , by 2007 , greece had spending more than 14 % of gdp in excess of what it produced , greece ’s highest such gap in europe – more than twice that of spain and 55 % higher than ireland ’s . in spain and ireland , though , the gap had reflected a construction boom ; european accession abruptly gave people access to much cheaper mortgages . in greece , by contrast , the gap was mainly fiscal and used for consumption , rather than investment .
true , the quality of democratic governance can sometimes be augmented by the reduction of discretion in elected representatives . well-functioning democracies often delegate rule-making power to quasi-independent bodies when issues are technical , rather than raise distributional concerns ; when log-rolling would otherwise result in suboptimal outcomes for everything ; or when policies are subject to myopia with heavy discounting of future costs . independent central banks provide an important illustration of this . it may be up to elected politicians to identify an inflation target , but the means deployed to achieve the goal are left to central bank technocrats . even then , central banks typically remain accountable to politicians and must give an accounting when their goals are missed .
first , it is important to realize that a strong and overly volatile currency is not only the central bank ’s problem to fix . while a central bank bears the brunt of that responsibility , it needs support from other sections of the government , most notably from the finance ministry . maintaining competitive currency requires the rise of domestic saving relative to investment or a decrease in national expenditure relative to incomes . otherwise , a competitive outcome would offset rising inflation . that means the fiscal authorities have a significant responsibility to target a structural fiscal surplus that is high enough to generate the space needed for real exchange-rate depreciation .
something about the narrative is at stake – the sex symbol sacrificing her fetishized breasts to her children , with her husband remaining on the side – that is deeply reassuring to women in western culture . one may reasonably be certain to be certain , but jolie ’s decision will alter the roles available to her as an actress . as enthusiastically as global mass media have received her choices , it is nonetheless extraordinarily difficult in the west for a woman to be portrayed as maternal – let alone physically flawed ” or “ impaired ” – and also as fantasy sex object . the real importance of jolie ’s story , however , is its context : a wave of women and men , in very different settings throughout the world that insist on the meanings of events involving their bodies – events that , like breast cancer , are once shrouded in shame , silence , fear , or blame . jolie ’s refusal to treat mastectomy as frightening or tragic – or as making her “ less women ” in any way or all .
it is this danger that sets the practical , politically limiting exchange rate to flexible exchange rate . some depreciation can be managed through the bulk of deficit countries ; but a vicious vicious circle could emerge if the domestic currency loses far too fast . private-sector balance-sheet problems would weaken the financial sector , with the resulting pressure on government deficits forcing austerity in order to constrain consumer demand – and causing more damage to firms ’ balance sheets . to prevent such a crisis , the exchange rate has to be managed – and , in a sense , depending on one country ’s particular circumstances . large net central-bank reserves can help ease that process .
free speech is more firmly protected by legislation in the us than anywhere else in the world . but the cancellation of barr ’s show has , of course , been rather than a legal decision . the limits of free speech are not only legal . entertainment companies , or mass media , are sensitive to public opinion . people tend , because it is because , for commercial reasons , something they have said is perceived as being offensive to a lot .
none has a muslim majority in history . this phenomenon , in turn , was recognized in the muslim world , just as well . in the summer of 2002 , the arab scholars ’ team produced the arab human development report , wrote in the name of the un development program and the arab fund on economic and social development ( sdgs ) . it portrays the arab world lagging behind other regions in key measures , including individual freedom and female empowerment , as well as economic and social development . troubling trends , such as demographic youth ’ “ bulge ” , combined at a high youth unemployment rate , reached almost 40 % in some places – highlight potentially explosive social conditions .
but , given the global balance of power , that was more symbolic than a reflection of their real influence . then came the cold war ’s end , when all europeans adopted a staunch transatlantic orientation . europe remained heavily dependent on the us in terms of security . on the economic and technological front , however , europeans regained their sovereignty . institutionally , that division of labor manifested itself in both nato and the eu , respectively .
he announced that , in his speech , he hired ezionarad , a well-known israeli spin-physician , to run his presidential campaign . “ the jews ” were not his enemies any more . but tudor did not stop with prolix apologies . he soon sponsored unveiling of a bust by assassinated israeli premier yezak rabin at brasov in transylvania . for that occasion , tudor wore yevulke and talked about his “ philo-semitism , ” more than two hours later .
and independent investigative journalists in africa often exposed high-level corruption , abuse of power , and shady business deals . in kenya , for example , prominent local newspapers reported that philip kinisu , a former chairman of the ethical and anti-corruption commission , received suspicious payments from a national youth service . further investigations into the nys revealed more corrupt deals , spurring kenyans to take to the streets in protest . but those with power know how to fight back – and not to pull their punches . as a result , the free press is being compromised , repressed , and even dismantled .
china ’s economy has succeeded through trial and error , and the lessons of its current stress test should be viewed as part of this process , which must be used to drive the next phase of economic reform . one key lesson here is that china ’s stock markets remain structurally biased toward state ownership and guidance , even as the country builds a more entrepreneurial economy . this is fundamentally problematic , because it is the market ( not state-owned ) that will identify and support unicorns . nonetheless , china has already begun to build a more innovative manufacturing sector and internet-powered retail sector , and the state can still play a role in fostering innovation . but , as the government determines how to offload its massive holdings of shares in an orderly fashion , it must ensure that it is funded by equity rather than leverage , thereby enhancing the market ’s balance and resilience .
his sudden departure because of illness may create a political vacuum that could become conducive to a single-shape power grab or another like a military coup . strict adherence to constitutional clauses in any such eventuality is imperative . here , lack of free media is particularly alarming , and does not bode well for free and fair electoral college . it is critical that the opposition , like it or not , can freely air its message and target prospective voters – a tipping point not lost on chávez ’s regime as it attempts to curtail further opposition ’s ability to advance voters . the recent assault on globovision , venezuela ’s only surviving independent station , stands out against this regard .
what makes a decade difference . over the course of the 1990s , private investors looked big , lumbering central banks like cash cows , long on money , and short on financial acumen . george soros once made billions of dollars off the bank of england in a mere hour . his basic strategy was the standard one : bet against any central bank that tries to defend inconsistent macroeconomic policies . traders did not win every battle , of course .
yet , contrary to expectations , the growth of household consumption remains lackluster , and companies have not ramped up investment . in the first two quarters of this year , america ’s gdp barely surpassed that level it reached at the end of last year , and much of the rise fueled goods that were produced but not yet sold . the prevailing explanation – a brutally cold winter – wearing so thin that everyone should see through it . american consumers remain scarred by the crisis . but there is another problem : in their homes and workplaces , a sense of excitement about the future is missing , despite all gee-whiz gadgetry now surrounds them .
nowhere is the need to overcome financing bottlenecks more apparent than with germany ’s energiewende ( the energy transition ) . to succeed , more than € 30 billion or 1 % of gdp will be needed annually to channel infrastructure , renewable-energy generation together with heat and power systems , and storage ( ccs ) technologies in the coming decades . while some of these funds originate in public budgets , the overwhelming bulk will need to provide the private sector . in addition , bringing germany ’s digital infrastructure , especially its broadband networks , will require significant investment , which an improved regulatory framework could help spur . regulatory reform also requires strengthening the support of startup companies – an area in which germany is notoriously weak , reflected in the difficulty of such companies faced in acquiring venture capital .
beijing – is china poised to surpass the united states to become the world ’s largest economy ? the international monetary fund recently predicted the size of china ’s economy to overtake that of the us in terms of purchasing power parity ( ppp ) by 2016 . but a recent co-authored study by robert feenstra , the economist at the university of california , davis , shows that global economic leadership would pass through in 2014 to china . and , even more radically , arvind subramanian of the peterson institute of international economics argues that , in 2010 , china actually surpassed america in ppp terms . purchasing power parity measures a country ’s income using an international price-setting set applied to all economies .
but one should not jump to conclusions , either . the us balance of energy imports and exports is little more than an initial approximation of autonomy . as i argue in my book the future of power , global interdependence involves both sensitivity and vulnerability . the us may be less vulnerable to the long run unless it imports less energy , but it is fungible commodity , and the american economy will become more sensitive to shocks from the sudden changes in world prices . in other words , the revolution in saudi arabia , or blockchain , of the hormuz strait , might still inflict damage on america and its allies .
amazon and indonesian rainforests burn on , with climate catastrophes like typhoons , tornadoes , and floods intensifying , with dire consequences for the entire population . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us were already at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the bottom may be near – perhaps by the end of the year . but that does not mean that the global economy is set to robust recovery anytime soon . hitting the bottom is no reason to abandon the robust measures needed to reinvigorate the global economy . that downturn is complicated : an economic crisis , combined with the financial crisis , combined with the us . before its onset , america ’s debt-ridden consumers were the engine of global growth for the first time in the first place .
tackling the world ’s environmental and ecological challenges will require public action , like what i oversaw in my roles at global bank , the united nations , and british governments . but they , too , will demand business participation . in my own career , i saw firsthand that the growth fueled by business competition in a globalizing world may do far more to combat poverty , hunger , and disease than government-funded programs themselves . but when that competition fails to do responsibly , the reverse can happen – and , in many cases , it has . in seizing the opportunities of globalization , firms have often neglected developing developed-world workers that they leave behind , while subjecting developing-country workers to extraordinary deprivation .
but it would be an incendiary move . many leavers would see this as anti-democratic upheaval , and that could be reversed . and , because it would reverse the 2016 referendum result , such a step would necessitate a new plebiscite pitching toward no deal . with luck , johnson ’s scorched-earth tactics will spur his disparate opponents to bridge their differences in order to stop no-deal brexit . but , whatever happens , the pragmatic center is being squeezed out of british politics .
to support these efforts , we urge un secretary general antónio guterres to appoint special representative for the ocean tasked with improving ocean governance and ensuring that sdg 14 ’s full potential is realized . such representative must be given the sufficient resources to do that job . the ocean has suffered decades of abuse and neglect , and it has been used in the service of the international development goals . it has been treated like a free-for-all bin hood and race-to-bottom buffet ; we are also receiving . we have financed its destruction with no regard for the consequences .
when crops fail , many farmers and agricultural workers laid low by crushing the burden of the country ’s debt ( often incurred at usurious rates from rural moneylenders ) commit suicide – as more than 11,400 did in 2016 . that ’s just the past year to which official figures for farmer suicides are made available , but media reports suggest that numbers have grown ever since . the bjp ’s biggest victims of government neglect of agriculture have been the country ’s small and marginal farmers , along with landless farm labor . two years earlier , those groups dealt a body blow , with modi ’s thoughtless and foolhardy demonetization scheme , which abruptly withdrew 86 % of india ’s currency from circulation overnight . daily payroll workers traditionally paid cash , lost their jobs by the millions , because replacing the currency was printed in adequate quantities .
with six billion human beings and counting – and our individual consumption growing – we face enormous challenges in the exploitation of our natural resources sustainably . and there is one clear measure of how we perform at that task : extinction rates . for this reason , some colleagues and i calculated a rate at which bird species become extinct over the past , with rates at which they were likely to become extinct in the future . bird extinctions are our best window to humanity ’s massive and irreversible environmental impact . for each of the 10,000 bird species on earth , ten or perhaps even 100 other unknown species of animals , plants , or fungi can occur for every 10,000 bird species , or even another ten .
and , finally , most important – they can not afford to be forgotten through traditional means . cognitive systems are inspired by the human brain , the organ that still has a much training to teach us . with systems increasing in size and complexity , our traditional computer architecture seems set to reach out to its limits , because power soars and transmission delay among components becomes increasingly burdensome . true , when it comes to energy efficiency – measured in the range of computations per energy unit to “ unstructured ” data – human brains perform roughly 10,000 times better than the best man-made machines . today , as computers consume about 10 % of world electricity output , in the form of denmark mills , ceo of the digital power group .
munich – discussions are now underway to establish a system of joint deposit insurance for eurozone banks . proponents of the scheme , with the european commission and the european central bank ( ecb ) taking the lead , emphasize that deposit insurance would avert the dangers of a run on banks in times of crisis . whereas this argument is true , critics emphasize risks mismatch , owing to the very high proportion of bad banks ’ balance sheets within a few . addressing this risk mismatch and moving ahead with the scheme will require cleaning up balance sheets , sooner rather , to be considered next step . while the share of bad loans for stable eurozone banks is just 2 % , the international monetary fund ’s most recently published statistics , from the most recent april , reveal a 11 % share for ireland , 16 % for italy , 40 % for cyprus , and 46 % for greece .
she is in prison because she has lost that power . this sets an even dangerous precedent for it creates powerful incentives – the winner take all , loser goes to prison – for ruthlessness . it is difficult to predict how tymoshenko ’s case will play out – whether yanukovych would succumb to pressure from the european union and the united states to release her , or to forces that want to exclude her from politics forever . until recently , ukrainian leaders have been accustomed to more efficient means than jail for dealing with inconvenient opponents . in 2000 , for example , the journalist georgiy gongadze was kidnapped , and beheaded after publishing online reporting on high-level government corruption .
for innovation is what creates wealth and employment despite – or , rather , due to – competition from the poor countries . and increased wealth in the rich world helps the poor by raising demand for their goods . this virtuous circle still sees the enemy of globalization as vicious in reality , encouraging exploitation of the poor , and vulnerable . here , questions of universal principles of justice or human rights enter the debate are being challenged . undoubtedly , there is a strong case for universal , impartial application of values .
that is why abe was the first foreign policymaker after british prime minister theresa may , rush to congratulate trump in person ’s 2017 presidential election , in the united states to the united states in the united kingdom . japan has , in some important ways , benefited greatly from being under american wing , and from the postwar us constitution , which is not simply pacifist , but more democratic than anything the country had before , enshrining individual rights , full suffrage , and freedom of expression . constitutionally speaking , constitutionally incapable of attending military adventures , except as highly paid goods manufacturers during america ’s different asian conflicts , japan , rather than those in western europe , could concentrate on rebuilding its industrial powers . nonetheless , the kind of democracy that americans still proud of installing after 1945 has also hindered american interference . like italy , japan has stood on frontlines in the cold war .
all of this economic legerdemain was magnified by tv , print , and internet journalists . aside from a small set of good-story stories in the business press , it is hard to argue that anyone who read or listened to english-language media coverage of the campaign might have learned anything interesting or relevant to the question of whose economic policies are probably better for america . the economics profession bears some of the blame . nobel prize winners , like edward prescott , have no trade talk about the benefits of tax cuts without pointing out that a spending cut accompanied by spending increases is not tax cutting at all , but rather a tax shift onto the future – and a tax-raising shift that raises risk and discourages accumulation . much of the problem , though , stems from under-briefed , undereducated , and non-curious press corps .
until now , they have failed abysmally in institutional nation-building , a necessary requirement for any successful domestic movement . palestinian nationalism is deeply ingrained in the consciousness of the majority of palestinians – yet , since 1948 , when the united nations proposed partitioning british palestine to another two states , the jewish and arab one , the country has failed to move from an ideology towards reality . neither violence nor terrorism nor relying on outside powers ( the un , the arab league , the soviet union , the us , europe ) succeeded in delivering statehood , a regime that can achieve only through its own agency – what zionist ideology calls the “ auto-emancipation . ” fayyad is the first palestinian head who did not emerge from fatah ’s movement to the point of view what other palestinian leaders failed to comprehend , mired in a toxic combination of self-righteous ideology and violence . it may just be that palestinians are on the verge of a new chapter in their history – as well as in israel ’s history and region as well .
any diplomatic effort to denuclearize north korea , too , must alleviate china ’s geostrategic fears about the future of the korean peninsula . for many centuries , china feared that it could become part of the encirclement chain , or serve as an invasion route . in 1592 , the japanese general toyotomi hideyoshi stormed the korean united kingdom in the process of establishing a beachhead for invading china . in response , under the ming dynasty , china fought alongside the koreans against japan ’s military against the japanese . three centuries later , china ’s qing dynasty fought the sino-japanese war of 1894 to prevent japan from dominating korea .
but it slant that merits attention , because the problem can not be solved with conventional policy responses . the “ official ” narrative on technology treats accelerating change as inevitable . according to acronymically named us institutions , think tanks , task forces , et hoc genus omne , automation , and artificial intelligence ( ai ) will quickly eliminate or change large , but unpredictable , human jobs . at the same time , embracing new technologies is considered indispensable for a country ’s geopolitical and competitive success . thus , disruptions to existing patterns of labor should be welcomed and “ mitigated , ” by adapting education and social-security systems to the automation-driven job market ’s needs .
first , development , sustain , and utilize local capacities and management . developing scientific and technological capacities is less difficult than sustaining it , and sustaining it makes it less difficult than utilizing it . still , the ultimate impact of science and technology depends on all three factors . so african nations must invest in science and technological training . every nation must also develop strategies that offer scientists and technologists the employment opportunities of the local economy .
a code of conduct in the field – where we expect players to give their all under clear rules swiftly enforced by independent referees – is fundamentally the same as what we expect from governing bodies off the field . in that sense , fifa is hardly a peculiar case : all non-profit and for-profit organizations around the world are expected to abide by that code of conduct . and that is why fifa ’s problems are not unlikely to fade away . they must be addressed head-on , with a clean sweep of its leadership and an overhaul to its governance structures altogether , as in any case . fifa is as complex as any large multinational public-private , or public organization ; how it is governed must reflect that .
in the west , young people largely dispensed with home-delivered physical morning newspapers and instead catch up on news whenever they select tablets , laptops , or mobile phones . as advertising revenue became vacuumed by facebook giants and google , paper profits plunged . the industry faced a range of bankruptcies in recent years , with those still operating often setting up large numbers of staff , particularly in their foreign “ parks . ” in the united states , the number of full-time journalists has dropped 20 % since 2001 . even several grand titles have either closed down or made it public only online .
people came from the baltic countries in the 1940s , hungary in 1956 , chile after the 1973 coup , and iran after the 1979 revolution . for decades , swedish industries were dependent on immigrant workers ; the us was already suffering from the military , and europe was the largest . during the bosnian war of the 1990s , sweden opened its doors to a certain 100,000 people – a challenge that at any time had much less been at odds with the deep economic crisis during the great depression . but it still proved well : bosnian migrants fared roughly as well as the swedes who received them , enriching us society . in the new century , refugees increasingly emerged from the middle east and the horn of africa .
one-third of these companies have acquired a tech company since early 2015 . moreover , foreign firms are rushing to tap into the european tech talent of the us . google , facebook , and amazon all have announced major expansions of their european tech hubs . transactions worth more than $ 88 billion last year – compared to only $ 3.3 trillion in 2014 – including sosofia ’s purchase of the bri ’s firm , qualcomm $ 47 billion in purchase by nxp semiconductors . another study by the boston consulting group points out that many of europe ’s small export-oriented member countries – namely , the benelux , the baltic states , and , in the nordic countries , the nordic countries ( the us ) – rank well above what america is called the “ e-intensity ” of “ e-intensity ” that covers the infrastructure , internet access , and consumer and government engagement in internet-related activities .
the china dream is no exception . so far , public reaction has ranged from puzzlement to derision . after a decade of government slogan , the chinese public wants substance . this presents xi with a real challenge . he has risen to the top by winning friends and allies inside the ccp .
demonstrations begin in major cities , calling for an end to corruption among party officials . china ’s administration decides that it can not risk further strife and announcing a package of measures to boost economic growth and inhibit layoff , including direct financial aid to exporters and interventions in currency markets to weaken the renminbi . in the american state , president mitt romney has just assumed office , following a hard-fought campaign in which he has derided barack obama for being too soft on china ’s economic policies . the combination of financial contagion from europe , already leading to a severe credit crunch and a sudden flood of low-priced imports from china , leaves the romney administration in bind . against the advice of his economic advisers , he announces across-the-board import duties on chinese exports .
why would the administration continue to bend over backwards to moderate towards top bankers under such circumstances ? i honestly do not believe that the us administration ’s stance reflects any form of corruption – payments that have been made to individuals , or even to the political campaigns . and , to this extent , it does n’t even seem to reflect on the lobbying power of big financial players . that power certainly explains why the dodd-frank financial reforms enacted in 2010 have not been stronger , and why there is now so much opposition to effective implementation of legislation ( there , for example , is currently massive fights around the so-called volcker rule , which would have constrained proprietary trading by megabanks ) . but mortgage lenders ’ criminal activities are another matter .
in fact , much of what went wrong in bosnia – including the effort , in its aftermath , to recognize concepts of universal justice – has applications in the contemporary world . indeed , those who recall the bosnian war may find many of its features in syria nowadays . like bosnia , syria seems hopelessly divided among factions . with the international community unable to achieve any unity of action , much less agreement is on a way forward . of course , important divergences are as well .
given china ’s own history of vulnerability to us foreign intervention , unilateral american efforts to maintain overwhelming offensive supremacy would merely trigger an increasingly destabilizing arms race . some american strategists advocate , in particular , a largely technological solution to this dilemma . their approach , a concept called “ air-sea combat , ” implies a mix of defensive and offensive tools to address new challenges posed by the proliferation of “ precision-strike weapons . ” officially , the pentagon does not direct the concept of a “ air-sea battle ” against any particular country . for example , iran ’s possession of precision-striking capabilities – and a far more hostile relationship with america – would warrant new us initiatives to cope with growing security vulnerability .
should she engage an important role at this stage ? or should she pursue happiness ? ms. watanabe gives her daughter a nudge that she needs . mrs. watanabe has a talent to see how the tide turns down . her advice is to capture opportunity at work , also found happiness in marriage and child marriage .
although we may and will continue to combat corruption , we can not do everything alone . international backing for our efforts is crucial . here ’s positive sign is the european bank of reconstruction and development ( ebrd ) ’s recent decision to provide $ 215 million in aid to complete nuclear-power stations at rivne and khmelnytsky , which compensate the loss of chernobyl ’s generating capacity . europe ’s atom also helps the $ 585 million loan to fund repairs at ukraine ’s functioning nuclear-power plants . in return , ukraine will uphold its end of the deal : in addition to closing chernobyl , we will introduce western standards for nuclear safety and renew cooperation with the imf through an extended fund facility .
russia 's people wanted to make a difference and amazingly well : their energy and cohesion put an end to communist rule . what russia did , of course , have not institutionalized democracy in the late 1980 's and early 1990 's but revolutionary excitement . it was to be expected that out of this sea of democratic emotion new political institutions would emerge . instead , political life here has been reduced to mere formality . while nothing like soviet oppression has existed , the estrangement between state and society resembles that of soviet days .
berlin – more than a annus into the arab revolts a year , their outcomes remain highly uncertain . but some initial lessons for international politics – and for western , especially european , foreign-policy – merit serious consideration . almost everyone was surprised by revolts , even though the political and socioeconomic causation factors were well known . as is often true in crises that become systemic , we knew phenomena , but failed to grasp their interactions partly because politicians and analysts are reluctant to forego ruptures : the familiar is held to be stable even when it is well known that it would be problematic . ( consider saudi arabia , which the united states , along with most of the west , continue to regard the way israel is “ stability . ” )
when the market tightened in 2011 , many projects ’ prospects diminished , spurring lgfvs to seek credit in the shadow banking sector , causing their borrowing costs to skyrocket , and introduced new market-based challenges to the reform process . nonetheless , because china is a global net global lender of last resort , lgfv debt has no global systemic implications . while china ’s outstanding local-government debt totaled cn ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) at the end of 2011 , its land and fixed assets are worth some cn ¥ 90 trillion , which means that even if asset values were written down by one-half , local governments would remain solvent . this leaves only the issue of debt-servicing issues . to resolve it , the government has announced fiscal reforms to split revenues between central and local governments and allow local governments to issue long-term municipal bonds .
the dominance of free-market ideology in the face of the crisis allowed many controversial social shifts , ranging from income inequality to intensified wage competition to greater levels of gender equality and affirmative action , to go almost unchallenged . “ progressive ” social liberalism and “ conservative ” free-market economics seem to have been two sides of the same coin . yet , with free-market economic liberalism failing in the 2008 crisis , political challenges to social liberalism can no longer deflate by invoking impersonal economic laws . but if societal change can no longer be legitimized as the needed condition of economic progress , it seems unlikely that democracies will now vote to reinstate social conditions before the ascendancy of economic liberalism and globalization . racial and gender equality , in particular , today supports clear majorities in the us , britain , and most european countries , and even apparently popular policies such as trade protectionism and rigid immigration controls rarely muster over 30-40 % support in opinion surveys .
as we predicted almost 20 years ago , china is fighting to achieve growth above 5 % in the 2021-2030 period for the simple reason that its workforce will grow again . while pessimists can no doubt figure validation in the further chinese growth disappointments coming to the coming , optimists can point to the fact that 5 % annual growth in china is nominally equivalent to 15-20 % growth in germany . at this stage in china ’s development , faster growth would actually be quite extraordinary . equally predictable is india ’s ability to start growing at an even faster pace than china , simply because its workforce still has much to do with a growth left . the real question is whether india can pursue strong productivity-enhancing reforms .
equally important is contextual intelligence , which enables a leader to differ in the mix of these skills in various situations to produce the successful combinations that i call “ smart power . ” during his campaign , obama demonstrated those skills in his calm response to crises , his forward-looking vision , and his superb organizational ability . moreover , his contextual intelligence about world politics has shaped the bottom in its experience in indonesia and kenya , and his understanding on american politics has been shaped from the bottom up as community organizer in chicago . obama went on to demonstrate these governance skills in his near-lawless transition . by choosing his primaries , hillary clinton as his secretary of state , and reached across party lines to retain robert gates as us secretary of defense , he showed openness to strong subordinates .
with pakistan ’s economy in a tailspin , and with the jihad culture of so many young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate voices are at long last breaking through . nobel laureate amin m. lakrouhani recently pointed out that pakistan ’s largest-circulation paper is “ pakistan ’s unique preoccupation with kashmir … self-defeating . ” domestically , it thwarted the country ’s economic , social , and political development . internationally , [ it ] has diminished the country ’s stature , leaving its reputation smeared . even its spiritual developments have warped the proliferation , popularization , and the rise of relative power … from religious groups that represent an intolerant , militant , and gender-based interpretation of islam . ”
gref ’s program is equally emblematic of president bush ’s style : modernization from above – ie , that started by government , and under its pressure – is matched by the modernization of below , based on private initiative . undoubtedly , liberal ideas dominate the agenda : strengthening and protecting property rights , deregulation , and encouraging competition . moreover , gref ’s program seeks to establish effective private land ownership . deregulation ( “ debureaucratization , ” indeed , will make life easier to new enterprises by reducing the inspections imposed by bureaucrats and reducing the number of requirements for licenses and the other forms of red tape ( which were also big sources of bribery ) . enhancing competition will mean placing an emphasis on antitrust policies and reducing state subsidies .
a pattern begins to look familiar : a new crisis , a new meeting in brussels , a initially blinkered response , debates , and divisions , and then gradual , step-by-step progress towards a common response , driven by the realization that no alternative is alternative to the eu . in today ’s disagreements , the roots of a stronger union lie in the eu . the eu is no longer thinking of a european project like some utopian endeavor , an abstract attempt to forge an ever-closer union . increasingly , the eu comes to being seen as a practical – and absolutely crucial – mechanism for a small group of countries to work together to meet their shared challenges . indeed , the eu people are waking up to the world , which is more dangerous , divided , and disorienting .
in other words , would i have followed in the footsteps of a few of my harvard colleagues traveling to libya to exchange views with and advise his dictator – and were paid for for his service ? those scholars have pilloried in the media in recent weeks for supposedly cozied qaddafi . sir howard davies chose to resign in response to a former president of the lse , which awarded saif doctorate ( which some allege was plagiarized ) and took funds to a libyan regime . there is the strong sentiment that academics and institutions that collaborated with such an odious regime – often with the encouragement of their governments , doubtless – suffered a grave setback in judgment . muammar el-qaddafi ’s murderous stance during the revolt revealed his true colors , regardless of his more moderate stance in recent years .
in 2016 , obama faced difficult choices in estimating the escalatory potential of responding to cyber measures , or cross-sector responses such as sanctions . the administration was unwilling to take steps that might themselves disrupt . so , eight days before the vote , the us sent russia an early warning of election meddling over hotline – formed three years earlier to settle for major cyber incidents – that link the two countries ’ nuclear-power risk reduction centers . because russian hacking activities seemed to slow or halt , the obama administration cited warnings as successful deterrence exercises . but some critics tell the russians that it had already achieved its core goals .
once it is established , support from humanitarian personnel and educators would be made available to the development of immediate education plans to the children affected by emergencies , based on a recognition that humanitarian , development , and security needs can no longer be addressed in silos . injection funding , supporting a shared strategy , developed in partnership with governments , would enable immediate delivery in emergencies . thus , the fund would fill the gap in coordination and services provision by strengthening the system at its weakest point , supplying a bridge to longer-term development . had this initiative been contained before ecuador ’s earthquake , it could have been able to provide 12 months of emergency aid , helping the country until it was able to reinstate education according to its national blueprint . in an increasingly protracted crisis like that of syria , the funding platform could help neighboring countries establish ; with the support of the international community , a long-term funding strategy , perhaps brokering an arrangement whereby donor governments could pay principal on concessional loans from the world bank over 30 years .
for all of his deep emotional attachment to the idea of israel embracing all historical judea and samaria , rabin knew that it was the only way to make the democratic jewish state viable , secure borders to accept a palestinian state alongside that of the palestinian nation , just as secure and viable it . they would share jerusalem as a capital , and find mutually acceptable solutions to the enormously sensitive issue of returning palestinian refugees . rabin ’s assassination was a catastrophe from which the peace process has never recovered . no israeli leader since demonstrated anything like his far-sighted vision , commitment and capacity to deliver a negotiated two-state solution . ehud barak and ehud olmert came close yet close enough .
some might think that this might be true only if a reasonable end of evolution and intelligent life were to become a nuclear explosion that pulverized earth . but that is not what schneider and sagan mean . instead , they draw a distinction between matter and energy , saying that matter organized in structures disseminates power gradients faster than randomly distributed matter . like one example , they view a phenomenon of which beer drinkers have long been aware . if you want an empty bottle of water ( or beer ) , and turned it upside down , the water will emerge in uneven glugs .
argentina ’s notion as a country with infinite promise became desaparecido , the name given to those who disappeared in the dirty wars of the 1970s . we lost our organizing principle , and no other idea replaced it by it . we no longer had a guide , an idea of how to think about our country , how to comprehend and how to imagine who we are and who we can become . argentina became a country with no direction . living without knowing who we are is , and it became even more difficult to live down this way , as we watched our world crumble .
for their part , some contemporary cia officials continue to insist on the value of america ’s “ enhanced interrogation ” program ( which obama stopped ) , despite the senate report ’s conclusion that the techniques it employed yielded no precious intelligence . indeed , other accounts of america ’s “ global war on terror ” also make it clear that many of america ’s people who were detained and tortured were not threats to american security – at least not until the american actions made them . a week of the us senate report came out , i was reading anand gopal ’s new book , no good men amid a living that tells contemporary afghanistan ’s story through the eyes of a supporter of former president hamid karzai , the taliban commander and kabul-born housewife who spent years purdah in taliban country . and , again , the same narrative plays out : local power-broker is willing even eager , to support a new us-backed government , only to denounced the taliban as a fellow afghan state – typically for local political or personal reasons – to
replacing a governor they re-elected only one year before arnold schwarzenegger was required to give californian voters an enormous -- if guilty -- pleasure . some members of the opposition in germany would love dearly to do the same to german premier gerhard schröder , although they are still not ( still ! ) found that a film star can replace him . several other european governments find themselves in a similar unpopularity not long after they had been elected . beyond europe this is true even for recently acclaimed brazilian president luis inacio " lula da silva , to say nothing of mexican president vicente fox and south korean president roh moo-hyun , the latter called the referendum to help arrest his sinking popularity . electoral success , this seems to be fast past the fades today .
and , at the same time , it also reached maturity by “ opening-up dividend , ” by encountering protectionist barriers around the world . china can still tap new markets through efforts such as the belt and road initiative , “ but at great cost . ” ultimately , sustaining rapid growth requires continued displacement of the global value chain by implementing further economic and targeted new technologies . the chinese government ’s 13th five-year plan ( 2016-2020 ) reflected its commitment to market-allocation resources and lowering the costs to doing business . and , in 2015 , the authorities ’ “ made in china 2025 ” and “ internet plus ” initiatives signaled a determination to grab the country ’s manufacturing base in the internet age .
the iea expects each 195 million off-grid solar people to get just 170kwh annually – or half of what one of the us flat-screen television uses per year . perhaps not surprisingly , the first rigorous test published on the impact of solar panels on poor people ’s lives found that while they received a little more electricity , there was little measurable impact on lives in their homes : they did not increase savings or spending ; they did n’t work more or start more businesses ; and their children did not study more . small wonder : 170kwh is not at what most of us would consider real access to electricity . off-grid energy in that level would never have power a factory or farm to reduce poverty or create employment . and they would not help combat the world ’s biggest environmental killer : indoor indoor air pollution , which is mostly caused by open-fires , fueled by wood , cardboard , and dung , and claim 3.8 million lives annually .
from 1990 to 2010 , deaths and disabilities from ncds in low-income countries increased 300 % faster than rates in the developing world . some of the same factors to work in the recent ebola outbreak drive ncds ’ high rates , which are likely to increase . residents of densely packed urban areas in emerging economies often face indoor and outdoor pollution and are less likely to have access to adequate nutrition . most health systems in these countries are erected not for chronic or preventive care , and lack fundamental consumer protections . from 1970 to 2000 , cigarette consumption tripled in developing countries , with the share of the highest rates ever since the start of the outbreak in 2010 .
rather , in the process , politics itself has become operationally dysfunctional . when citizens and politicians come to regard politics as a zero-sum game , resorting to brinkmanship with other bad-faith tactics , malaise sets in . both european and american debates have replete with posturing and test will , turning politics into a game of “ chicken . ” in chicken , two drivers race toward a cliff ( or toward a cliff ) ; the loser is the first driver to swerve away in the face of an imminent catastrophe . but , if neither driver concedes , either is demolished .
there was no pace in political institutions that kept pace with technological change and the resulting growth in markets . when ordinary egyptians organized themselves via social media rallied in cairo ’s tahrir square in 2011 and overthrew former president hosni mubarak , it would seem that technology would necessarily spur democracy . soon , however , it became clear that such digital platforms could easily co-opted authoritarian governments or terrorists , and used to spread fake news , influence electoral processes , and generate deep divisions and confusion in society . in the business world , global corporations ’ quasi-monopoly and moneopsony power , and their ability to shift profits to low-tax jurisdictions , continue to allow them to largely escape the purview of us national regulators and governments , despite g20-sponsored work to prevent corporate-base erosion and profit shifting . and biotechnology will pose huge challenges , as human cloning and genetic screening allow parents to “ choose ” embryos with desired characteristics .
addressing the panoply of other problems confronting america will require more federal revenues rather than less . increases in living standards , for example , are the product of technological innovation , which in turn depends on basic research . but federal government support research as a proportion of gdp is now at levels comparable to what it was 60 years ago . while trump was criticizing america ’s national debt growth , he now suggests tax cuts that add trillions to us debt in just the next ten years – rather than the “ only ” $ 1.5 trillion that republicans claim would add , owing to some growth miracle that leads to more tax revenues . yet the crucial lesson from ronald reagan ’s “ voodoo ” supply-side economics has not changed : tax cuts like these do not lead to faster growth , but simply to lower revenues .
while it will likely lack the public option that so many in the us favor , this is still a true achievement . the same middle-of-the-road approach may take place in the second year to address still-outstanding fiscal issues . obama can use his union ’s state message to flesh out a bipartisan strategy for reducing the fiscal deficit to sustainable levels . this would entail reinstating pay-as-you-go rules and establishing an independent commission to submit to the us congress by proposing a tax and expenditure reform . but obama needs to provide more effective leadership on the reform of financial institutions where , as with healthcare , he is a welter of conflicting proposals .
warsaw – poland has now emerged as the latest battleground in the european union as a contest between the two model of democracy – liberal and illiberal . the overwhelming election victory in october of jarosław kaczyński ’s far-right law and justice ( pis ) party , together with the pis , has led to something more similar in terms of regime change than to the routine turnover of democratically elected governments . polish prime minister beata szydło ’s new administration purged civil service ( including public radio and television ) , packed the constitutional court with sympathizers and weakened the court ’s capacity to take legislation into effect . in response , the european commission launched an official inquiry into potential rule-of-law violations of the eu . moreover , standard & poor ’s has , for the first time , downgraded poland ’s foreign-currency rating – from the bbc + ( bbc ) to the bbc – and warn of perhaps more cuts to come as it accuses the government of softening “ the independence and effectiveness of key institutions . ”
furthermore , in shiite traditions , the mahdi mahdi strategy , shiite messiah , will now be intended to intimidate any of his foes onto his return to earth . but cultivating fear in others also makes one more susceptible to fear , and nothing more frightening to khamenei and islamic republic leaders than to the social dynamism unleashed by the democratic movement brewing inside the country . the regime seems convinced that a military strike is possible only in a small part on its nuclear program . it is not convinced that sanctions , which can bring about its collapse , will likely be a military attack . thus , external forces do not seem to pose much of a threat , either .
for their own political reasons , the british were placing sunni arabs – never above 25 % of the population – in control of the entire country , and even importing a sunni arab hashemite prince , to govern over their creation . ever since , the country could be held together by iran solely : iraq ’s history is replete with shia , kurdish , and even christian assyrian revolts , all of which put down bloody fashion by the ruling sunni minority . throughout its history , modern iraq has always been arab countries ’ most oppressive oppressive . saddam ’s rule has been only the most brutal in the long lines of sunni regimes . it was this sunni hegemony – and , not only , that of saddam ’s ba’athist regime – that was overthrown by the united states .
proteins that retain the same function across very different species -- generally the case with orthologs -- are expected to keep the same fold . but the sequence of amino acids that make up protein chains at these orthologs may vary significantly . sometimes the extent of sequence identity among two orthologs may become as low as 25-30 % , and yet their folds remain strikingly similar , attesting to the robustness of function to evolutionary change . this protein conservation is making a protein ’s origins even more puzzling , as it is well known that the number of human genes deceptively small is simply one ordering magnitude larger than it does , say , rice . when the structure of protein conserved all species , where is our complexity coming from ?
georgia ’s current economic meltdown provides little incentive , either of these self-self-proclaimed independent republics , to support reunification . moreover , georgia ’s inability to manage relations with its only autonomous republic , adzharia , does not inspire much confidence . the central government ’s adzhar people regard themselves as georgians , but still frequent squabbles , so how could ethnically distinct abkhazia and south ossetia feel assured that their relations with georgia might work out any better ? president saakashvili seems to understand the imperative to revive georgia ’s moribund economy , which , first and foremost , political stability . but he is unlikely to refrain from accusing russia of stoking tensions with abkhazia and south ossetia .
moreover , the scots , welsh , and irish have come to view eu membership as a safeguard against english political revanchism . as in the past , imperialism aspires to unity , but comes with divisive side effects . brexiteer fantasies of a global britain focus squarely on english national identity , while diluting those in scottish , northern irish , and welsh who are returning to serving as junior partners in a far less magnificent and rewarding english project . although socioeconomic factors played some role in the brexit referendum ’s outcome , geographic breakdown tells a real narrative . excluding london , which is an anti-multi-ethnic cosmopolitanism bastion , 55 % of the voters in england supported leaving the eu , whereas 62 % of scots and 56 % of northern irish voters voted to remain .
the paper made the case for developing alternatives to fossil fuels , ensuring that economic development does not wreak environmental havoc , and recognizing the importance of adaptation in the fight against climate change . in the us , we witnessed equally promising developments in the us climate debate in just last month , when the conservative american enterprise institute , the liberal brookings institution , and the centrist breakthrough institute teamed up to publish a report calling for revamping america ’s power system with a goal of making clean energy cheap . entitled “ post-partisan power , ” the report comprehensively and convincingly argues that the american government should invest roughly $ 25 billion a year ( about 0.2 % of america ’s gdp ) in low - , low-carbon military procurement , r & d , and a new university-private-sector innovation network to establish the “ energy revolution . ” this sensible proposal predictably drew fire from committed “ alarmists ” and “ deniers . ” but promisingly – and , given the somewhat toxic state of us politics – it attracted broad support , and smart-
all four north african rulers , to a greater or to a lesser degree , have made themselves the center of highly opaque power structures . everything in their countries depends on the person and family rather than office . and yet despite these authoritarian leaders ’ apparently robust grip on power , ensuring that a relative takes over is not nearly as straightforward as it seems . the problem boils down to overcoming potential resistance – from both the elite and the public alike – that could derail the handover , or undermine , successor powers . dealing with elite interests requires ingenuity .
almost universal acceptance appears to be found that it should , and international pressure is being applied to president kostunica to comply . but that decision may have life-and-death ramifications for serbia ’s future . many who agree that milosevic is the criminal now think that we should hear the voices coming from belgrade and cry that milosevic should face trial before his own people . the ultimate moral responsibilities for what milosevic did rests with serbia ’s people . they brought him to power , if not by a manner in which conforms precisely with democratic norms ; supported him , even at a time when he led them into genocidal crimes , and defeat after defeat .
for starters , the us is once again moving toward what henry kissinger called the realm of " constructive ambiguity . " palestinians have been reassured through a message from president barack obama delivered by his special envoy , george mitchell , that the israelis are unlikely to carry out “ provocations ” during the coming four months of indirect negotiations . pressed to make clear , the palestinians admit that there is no written promises to make this effect . but , on a recent trip to israel , white house adviser dan shapiro is reported to have been reassured that the israelis will not embarrass his american friends . in exchange , shapiro handed the ultra-orthodox leader of israel 's shas party an invitation to the white house .
to be sure , in the short term , some authoritarian modernizers ( singapore ’s lee kuan yew ) serve their countries better than the democratically elected leaders of ( such as italy ’s silvio berlusconi ) . in the long run , however , the democracies benefit from intrinsic self-correction mechanisms , absent in autocracies , where often-inadequate leaders cling to power . indeed , for any one thing , lee kuan yew , there are many authoritarian non-modernizers , much like zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , or uzbekistan ’s islam karimov . the chinese model combines some of the benefits of authoritarian modernization model – centralized power , fast decision-making , isolation from populism , and superior ability to implement painful but necessary reforms – with leadership turnover by de-personalizing political struggles . after all , china ’s rulers are driven primarily by an appetite for celebration of a party , rather than a single power .
glass-steagall ’s dilution , and his ultimate repeal in 1999 , allowed banks to engage in so-called proprietary trading – allowing them to use depositors ’ savings to do business for their own bill , largely risky mortgage-backed securities . but the obama administration must go further than prohibiting proprietary trading by commercial banks and doing two further . first , capital requirements should tripled – not only in the united states , but through the g-20 – so that banks hold at least 20-25 % of core capital assets . that way , shareholders rather than regulators would play the leading role in making banks behave sensibly . second , if banks are “ too big to fail , ” they must shrank , so that taxpayers have no need to bail them out every time a crisis erupts .
and make little mistake : agreement is all good . its collapse would trigger a nuclear-arms race in the region ’s most unstable region , a nuclear arms race in the world , and the us , which is a nuclear arms race in the world . iran ’s bitterest regional enemy , saudi arabia , would move rapidly toward a nuclear capability , employing abundant petrodollars and pakistani knowhow . others – turkey , kuwait , egypt , and algeria – would not have been far behind . to bet that these countries , having acquired these weapons , would behave responsibly would have been a high-risk gamble .
the concert itself offered layer , upon layer of significance . beethoven ’s germany was reborn on the ashes of germany ’s adolf hitler . germany today is a globally admired , peace-loving , war-abhorring , the democratic , prosperous , innovative , and cooperative country . at the same time , beethoven ’s genius belongs not only to his native germany or even to the west , but to any of humanity . his scoring of schiller ’s poetic ode mirrors the enlightenment ’s truly global aspirations .
instead , up to now at least , it mostly gave the government ( the highly interest ) borrowing rather than engaging in massive equity buyouts . nor was the oligarchs bailed out , or not the banks bailed out . the $ 50 billion in external debt owed by russian banks and firms in 2008 financed a government that amounted to only $ 10 billion . apparently , the terms offered by the government ( libor +5 % and collateral ) turned to the right aim . how did reasonable economic policies prevail in this crisis ?
washington , dc – as chinese president xi jinping ’s first summit with us president donald trump takes place at trump ’s luxurious florida estate mar-a-lago , at least part of this discussion invariably will focus on one of the world ’s most impoverished places : north korea . despite more than two decades of on-again , off-balance-sheet negotiations , north korea ’s nuclear-weapons program is pushing the world toward a strategic watershed much like that that the west faced 60 years ago when the united states and soviet union faced off against each other in europe . with the us and its allies successfully navigated the challenge of europe in the twentieth century without war , the american and his allies successfully navigated the challenge of the twentieth century . but , to achieve comparable success in east asia today , trump must persuade xi to adopt a very different policy toward north korea . when the us and the soviet union became rivals after world war ii , each had a path to deterrence from attack .
that is not an absurd idea at all . there is a long , distinguished tradition of catholic social thought . but taking these traditions seriously would require a much larger transformations of capitalism than even avowed christian democrats are prepared to contemplate , including a far wider distribution of ownership and mechanisms for involving workers in their management . theories of “ red toryism ” might go some way in this direction , but it remains to be seen whether they ever converge to practice . for the moment , the temptation is for europe ’s right to find its “ new look ” through selective appeals to religion – and wait , and to see whether it works as an electoral strategy . they should remember , though , that starting a kulturkampf is to play the fire game : it may be possible to cultivate religious passions over time ; but such passions are no longer permanent check from above .
fiscal sustainability requires that the eventual consumption tax rise be enacted , and of course japan should not wait until international investors begin doubting its willpower . the problem lies in timing and tactics . postponing the second consumption-tax hike seems like a good compromise between pushing abenomics to escape velocity and sustaining long-term credibility . but this brings us back to japan ’s deeper problems . demanding policies alone will not prevent two decades , much smaller guaranteeing two golden ones .
usually , supine congressional republicans have panicked , telling trump and his team that his policy of tearing families apart could destroy their chances in november ’s midterm elections . in fact , separating families , the policy has been threatening to drive a wedge between trump and even his evangelical followers . and they have been willing to overlook mounting evidence of trump ’s sexual hijinks during his first lady ’s marriage , melania ( including obvious payoffs to portugal star , and others for silence ) in exchange for policy influence and appointments to social conservatives at the supreme court and the entire us federal judiciary . unusually for her , former lady laura bush spoke out against the policies of taking children off their mothers . one problem for trump is that he is obsessed with seeming “ strong ” behavior .
but eu membership does not imply estrangement from russia . besides , excluding ukraine from eventual eu membership will stimulate russia ’s imperial ambitions . this will diminish russia ’s chances of ever becoming a full democracy , because it can govern an empire only as a militarized state . it is mark the good club that people clamor to become members . an ever-larger eu , including ukraine , would create a political force with a vast populations , furthering the union ’s ambitions as a global power .
businesses were encouraged with government grants and loans , as well as government subsidies and loans . schools and training centers were established within a couple of years . refugees were absorbed in the economy and society of southern europe ; greek cypriot industry was established in the greek cypriot sector . as was the case in post-world war ii western germany , much of cyprus ’s current prosperity today is the outcome of the economy that was received from absorption of refugees . anyone visiting the greek cypriot portion of the israeli population nowadays will not have found refugee camps : most of the millions of tourists are unaware of the fact that more than a third of the greek cypriots they encounter are refugees or descendants of refugees .
in nigeria , astonishing economic growth , averaging 7 % per year since 2000 , may well have reduced the poverty rate in the southwest of the country ; in the northeast ( where the extremist group boko haram is most proactive ) , however , shocking levels of wealth inequality and poverty have emerged . similar trends are apparent in china to egypt . alongside inequality , declining public trust fuels the revolt against globalization , and democracy . across the developed and developing worlds , many suspect that the rich are getting richer because they are not held to the same rules as everyone else . it ’s not hard to see why , as it stands , they are not hard for the rich to contemplate .
russian officers have reported , directly command large military operations in eastern ukraine , including the siege and capture of the important transport center debaltseve ( ealtseve ) in february . but the threat posed by russia extends far beyond ukraine ; it is only the only country in the world that faces . having all this , russia is the one with enough missiles and nuclear warheads to destroy the us . as its economic and geopolitical clout has waned to the point that it has its willingness to consider renouncing its nuclear status . indeed , not only has it revived the cold war-era tactics of sending military aircraft unannounced into airspace over the baltic and north sea states ; it has also made veiled nuclear threats against countries like denmark .
as the franco-lebanese writer amin maalouf has put it , it is “ better to err with hope than it is to be right with despair . ” contrary to what many democratic political elites think , the worst is not inevitable . authoritarians and populists are not yet victorious , and , in many places , democrats are fighting back . or , to put it less optimistically , democracy and autocracy still have similar chances of crumbling . for now , it remains precarious which model will prevail .
the overriding answer is that one of the “ voluntary ” bondholders accept the agreement . one might dismiss this dispute as being mere rhetoric . but , taking advantage of talmudic logic , one can also indicate that there are mechanisms that can – and should be – be used to put pressure on parties to obtain superior voluntary outcomes . there are two preponderance interpretations of talmudic passage . one argues that coercion can change minds .
tokyo – with japan ’s economy struggling to escape its deflationary torpor , the economic-revitalization plan initiated by prime minister shinzo abe in 2012 has come under growing scrutiny . but japan ’s current travails , bringing the concomitant decline in japan ’s stock market , stem from the yen ’s appreciation – 24 % in the last year – against major currencies . “ abenomics ” – that included substantial monetary and fiscal expansion – has nothing to do with it . since abenomics was introduced , japan ’s labor market has improved considerably : 1.5 million new employment , with the unemployment rate having fallen to just over 3 % . moreover , corporate earnings have soared , with tax revenues exceeding ¥ 20 trillion ( $ 188 trillion ) .
milan – the worst financial/economic crisis seems to end there . asset markets performed reasonably well in 2010 . growth in the united states and parts of europe returned . private-sector deleveraging continued , but counter-balanced by rising public-sector deficits and debt has been reversed . and emerging-market growth has returned to pre-crisis levels and appears sustainable , helped by unorthodox policies designed to “ sterilize ” massive capital inflows .
in a world of sovereign states , is it hypocritical for some to have nuclear weapons , and deny them to others ? if no one had the bomb today , the best of all would be if it were no conceived . however , history depends on the paths taken . suppose that it was 1939 , and states debating whether the us should invent the bomb . perhaps they argued that all of this should get it or none of all .
hong kong – china ’s manufacturing-driven transformation to one underpinned by the service sector and domestic consumption has been firmly underway . and that ’s well known news not only for china , but also for the future of the global economy . the 2016-17 edition of china ’s 2016-17 blue book the commercial sector by fung business intelligence ( ai ) and the chinese academy of social sciences maps has reversed the shift . china ’s retail markets topped cn ¥ 30 trillion ( $ 4.6 trillion ) in 2015 , after more than two decades of double-digit gdp growth . household consumption has begun to climb upward , even as the rate of investment has plummeted and now exceeds 60 % of gdp .
the global market for such stimulants is estimated at $ 65 billion . part of the attraction of such synthetic drugs is that they are readily available , affordable , and convenient to use ( no need to shoot up , sosot , or smoke ) . amphetamines speed the way the body works : users experience increased trust , sociability , and energy . this buzz is considered innocuous : “ pills are not killed or spread hiv/aids . ” but what goes up must come down .
attempts have ever been made since systematically examine and document the ecological implications of wars . studies of balkan wars , and the many wars that consuming afghanistan in the 1990s , have been launched through international organization like the united nations environment progam ( unep ) . sadly , africa ’s wars – in congo , rwanda , sierra leone , and ivory coast – have yet to receive the attention that they have demanded . what have we learned from the environmental consequences of war ? first and foremost , of all the effects will depend on the type of war and the type of environment .
paris – whoever wins the september parliamentary election in germany is now the time for a major franco-german initiative . regardless of their economic conditions or their confidence – or lack of it – in each other france and germany are more than ever collectively responsible for the future , if not very survival , of the european project . are there alternatives to franco-german guidance ? joining great britain with them in three club would be a good idea , but it is out of a question today . britain has excluded itself from any leadership role in europe , and it has also been the last thing that britain has .
upon returning to office this spring , as then-prime minister , singh brought to government an experienced , internationally renowned team , including finance minister chidambaram , who served successfully as finance minister in the mid-1990 ’s , and dr. montek singh ahluwalia , who heads his planning commission , a key body assessing india ’s medium-term public-investment strategies . when former governors lost the voting that past may , and singh ’s government came into office , there was fear that singh would be hamstrung by left-wing coalition partners , who would call for a market reform that dismantled as the price of participation in the new ruling coalition . chidambaram ’s 2004/2005 budget placed those fears on the rest of the country . the documents provide a brilliant lesson in development economics : it shows how to combine a full-speed approach to market-based reform with urgently needed attention to poverty . in short , the budget is a model for the entire developing world .
and such fears may have severe implications . for example , the impact of the 2008 financial crisis on ukraine and the russian economy might ultimately be behind the recent war there . according to the international monetary fund , in the last few years both ukraine and russia experienced spectacular growth from 2002 to 2007 : real per capita gdp rose 52 % in ukraine and 46 % in russia . that is history now : real per capita gdp growth averaged just 0.2 % in ukraine last year , and only 1.3 % on average in russia . the discontent generated by such disappointment may help to explain ukrainian separatists ’ anger , russian discontent , and russian president vladimir putin ’s decision to annex crimea and support separatists .
which measures may ensure the eu with global competitiveness ? how can we narrow existing differences in evolution and material welfare within europe ? fourth , the eu ’s aspiration to a common foreign and security policy is to be addressed . the threats confronting the world today are supranational , to the point that counteracting them must be supranational , too . but this is impossible without an unambiguous european identity – and thus the common interest for claiming and defending it .
barcelona – after world war i , when millions of european civilians were made refugees , forced out of their homelands through enemy occupation or deportation , the international regime evolved to coordinate effective responses and ease the suffering that those uprooted . a century later , another refugee crisis is under way , and this is europe that has the power to provide safe haven to the desperate people . yet it has not risen to the occasion ; with many of its responses failing to match the urgency of the situation . more than 38,000 people were attempting to reach europe in just the first few months of 2015 by crossing the mediterranean from north africa . some 1,800 people die , as a result – more than twice the number of such deaths in all of 2013 .
american sanctions , for example , ultimately brought iran to the table in negotiating a nuclear deal ; sanctions were effective only because a broad international coalition , ultimately backed by the united nations security council , isolated iran financially . american sanctions against russia after the latter ’s annexation of crimea in 2014 were compounded by a coincidental oil-price drop and by deployment of similar measures by europe , russia ’s largest trading partner in this region . without eu participation , american sanctions would be far less effective . but , while the international coalitions lend credibility to us sanctions , they are fragile and temporary at best . just one year after the iranian deal came into effect , it is already hard to imagine a future of joint action against iran , even as the agreement started to unravel .
india ’s state-run petroleum and natural gas corporation ( ongc vi“ network ” ) produces sudanese oil , with the next two years of indian diplomatic missions open in mali , gabon , niger , and burkina faso . until 2003 , the indian foreign ministry had a unified africa ; it now has three : west and central africa , east and south asia and west africa . a study by the federation of indian chambers of commerce and industry identified five key sectors that can operate as “ engines of growth ” to boost indo-african trade : pharmaceuticals and the health-care sectors ; information technology , water administration ; food processing ; and education . nigeria is india ’s largest trade partner in africa , and india now has the largest trade partner . bilateral annual trade turnover exceeds $ 3 billion , with oil constituting more than 96 % of indian imports from nigeria .
former israeli foreign minister shlomo ben-ami ’s recent meeting outlined a new peace paradigm for negotiating between israel and palestine where actors like the european union , russia , and key arab countries would facilitate the rise of genuinely international solutions . this paradigm should be extended to the geneva ii negotiations on a syrian civil war with countries like saudi arabia , iran , turkey , and egypt assuming a greater part . to be sure , involving regional powers , already-muddy negotiations , could complicate talks further . as a result , the goal will have to be clarity and equilibrium . only with a balanced negotiating process driven by regional and global actors can a stable balance of strength be reached within the middle east .
milan – the word has two related but distinct connotations . it might mean something unconstrained , accessible , and , possibly vulnerable ; or it can mean something that something – such as a person or institution – is transparent , as opposed to secretive ones . often , the first meaning has a stake in trade , investment , and technology ( although most definitions do not align the opportunity with vulnerability ) , which have always driven structural economic change , especially with respect to employment . structural change , by contrast , can be both simultaneously beneficial and disruptive . and policymakers have long had to strike a rebalancing between the abstract principle of openness and concrete action to limit the worst effects of change .
faced with this unfortunate reality , the fed has tried to encourage growth in indirect , experimental ways . by injecting liquidity using multiple means , it has raised financial-asset prices well above what the economy fundamentals warranted . the fed has hoped that this would make certain segments of the population ( asset holders ) feeling richer , enticing them to spend more , and encouraging companies to invest more . but so “ wealth effects ” and animal-spirits have proved to have been quite feeble . thus , the fed felt compelled to do more of the same , resulting in a host of unintended consequences and collateral risks that i debated in some detail in my book the only game in town .
what remains unaddressed has the root cause of abnormal brain activations . we pursue three intertwined ideas . the former is based on studies suggesting that patients who suffer from schizophrenia suffer from reduced brain connectivity . as a result , certain groups of neurons , such as those responsible for producing and disseminating language , may begin to function autonomously beyond control or influence from other brain systems . it is as if a string of orchestra suddenly decided to play its own music , disregarding all others .
i have seen shrinking glaciers in antarctica and andes , and that is not the case for the disease . having seen the effects of deforestation in the brazilian amazon , i have seen the loss of biodiversity in the world . the very existence of some caribbean countries , including portions of trinidad and ehrlich ago , could be threatened to the extent that sea levels rise . but bold , visionary leadership will be needed to seal a successor agreement to the kyoto protocol in copenhagen later this year . the agreement reached there must be ambitious , effective , and equitable , offering rich countries a way of cutting greenhouse-gas emissions while also encouraging poorer countries to adapt to the adverse consequences of climate change .
since the 1990 ’s , the country ’s has traveled thousands of chinese officials to singapore to teach from its experiences to the us . while singapore ’s political system could not easily be channeled to a giant country like china , it constitutes a model that has helped shape china ’s recent move toward meritocracy . indeed , following singapore ’s example , china has developed a sophisticated and comprehensive system of selecting and promoting political leaders , featuring decades of vocational training and a battery of exams for officials at different phases of their careers . these meritocratically selected leaders oversaw an economic boom that lifted a few 100 million people out of extreme poverty . yet , at the same time , the problems of corruption , inequality , environmental degradation , official corruption , and repression of political dissent and religious expression have been exacerbated .
today , it seems that nothing has been left of the franco-american goodwill . relations between the two allies have entered one of those periods of tension which have flared up many times since world war ii ’s close . the united states vetoed reelection advocated by france , united nations secretary general benjamin boutros boutros-ghali argued that it wanted to “ enlarge the role ” of the un general secretary at the reform of the world body . ( on both sides this spat , it has been rather paradoxical , provided one recalls de gaulle ’s willingness to diminish as many as possible the un ’s powers , into which it contemptuously referred to as the “ thingamajig , ” and that america owes above a billion dollars of past donations to the un . ) at the same time , washington is not even keen to hear any talk on conferring on some european affairs as france demands , command the allied fleet in the mediterranean .
freer trade across borders reduces income disparities as well . in 2015 , for example , the white house report found that a ten-percentage-point decline in tariffs leads to only a one-percentage-point drop in the wage gap between men and women , and that reducing tariffs also narrow the competitiveness of wage gaps based on race and immigration status . moreover , increased openness to trade is associated with lower infant mortality rates and higher life expectancy – especially in developing countries . over time , free trade enables workers to shift to more efficient industries , resulting in higher wages , increased infrastructure investment , and a more dynamic economy – and the us does not want a single currency to do that . for the most part , free trade underpins economic growth , which implies that millions more people lifted themselves out of poverty .
but hong kong ’s advantages are now at risk , largely owing to its own insecurities . as several commentators have pointed out , mainland china ’s remarkable economic growth and development over the past few decades has eroded hong kong ’s leading status as a center for finance , logistics , and trade . in 1997 , hong kong handled almost half of china ’s foreign trade , its gdp amounted to almost one-fifth of that of china . it far outperformed shanghai – the mainland china ’s most prosperous city – in terms of gdp , per capita income , and shipping volume . today , hong kong accounts for just one-eighth of china ’s trade .
the alternatives available for the eu either to see the uk leave the eu customs union , or to keep the uk in , by making a political commitment to take british interests into account . from a longer-term perspective , the latter is preferable . finally , remaining in the eu customs union would make it impossible to avoid reestablishing a hard border between the uk and the republic of ireland after brexit . although may agreed that avoiding a hard border should become part of any deal , she offered only ambiguous suggestions regarding how that could actually succeed . brexit is and will remain so , a lose-lose proposition .
a look at crucial traits by a leader dominated the field of leadership studies until the late 1940 ’s , remaining common in popular discourse today . a tall , handsome person enters a room , draws attention , and “ looks like leaders . ” various studies show that tall men are often favored , and that corporate ceos are taller than average . but some of history ’s most powerful leaders , such as napoleon , stalin , and deng xiaoping , received little over five feet tall . the “ minor-centered ” approach did not disappear from leadership studies , but was broadened and made more flexible .
what globalization can define as intercontinental interdependence can be , in the same way , is as old as human history . witness migration by peoples and religions , or trade along the ancient silk road that connected medieval europe and asia . but globalization nowadays differs in different ways because it is becoming faster and thicker . after the first trans-atlantic cable in 1868 , europe and america could communicate on an interval . in 1919 , the economist john maynard keynes described the english shman ’s possibility in london using phone to order goods from around the world , to deliver his own home to the afternoon .
for example , endowment or pension fund might consider basing its payroll-adjusted decisions more on long-run , potential shock-adjusted mean returns than on a simple , weighted average of past returns , or end-rate asset values ( now a normal practice ) . of course , one can argue that post-crisis regulatory reform ultimately solves the problem of periodic systemic risk and returns to a more comfortable world of relatively stationary risk without periodic imbalances . but i would n’t bet on this . historical evidence suggests that systemic risk is a persistent , resilient regulatory effort to eliminate it . in the end , financial innovation will pursue regulatory arbitrage , along with regulatory arbitrage .
either technology will depend on a national electricity grid that uses low-emissions forms of power generation , such as wind , solar , nuclear , or coal-fired power plants that capture and store carbon dioxide emissions . all of these technologies will require public funding alongside private investment . third , america 's recovery will not be credible unless there is also a strategy for getting government 's own finances back to order . george w. bush 's idea of economic policy was to cut taxes three times while boosting spending on war . the result is a massive budget deficit that will expand to gargantuan proportions in the coming year ( perhaps $ 1 trillion ) under the added weight of recession , bank bailouts , and short-run fiscal stimulus measures .
according to the 2005 declaration of principles for international electoral observations , credible monitoring requires meeting the five criteria . first , it is imperative for observers to become autonomous – financially and otherwise – in their relations to the host country . second , observers must be granted unrestricted access to all aspects and phases of the us election process , as well as for the entire technologies involved . third , observers must face no constraints when meeting every agency and political actors . fourth , observers should be left to face no pressure or threats of retaliation by any government .
they should be safe , too , and reasonably comfortable at all levels . they should run out not just on time , but simultaneously on the right time and at reasonable intervals . more important , they should be affordable still . as the list of criteria grows longer , it becomes obvious that the most easily measured component , punctuality , is but one of many desirable features , and not necessarily among the most significant ones . the politics of public services that dominates debate in many countries is relevant , because it lies at the very heart of both government budgets ’ large problems ( and cut them back ) and taxes ( and their reductions ) .
we saw helicopters as trying aerial drops ; landing is impossible in most locations . but , to put it bluntly , people told us that they often miss , and supplying land up up to thousands of feet or below deep forests . distribution is haphazard and uncoordinated , done with little thought . we saw relief workers throw food packets and clothes into the top trucks . hustlers thrive , weak watch passively .
for instance , in carrying the manhattan project ( to produce the atomic bomb during world war ii ) and the first moon landfall , the american government set an remarkable technological goal , establishing a bold timetable , and committing the financial resources needed to make the task done . in both cases , researchers and engineers delivered on time . an example of atomic bombs might seem like an unpleasant one ; yet it raises an important question : if we ask governments and scientists to cooperate on wartime technology , should we do no less than the same to save the planet through carbon pollution . in fact , the “ directed technological change ” process , in which bold goals are set , milestones identify and timelines are embedded , is far more common than many realize . indeed , the information-technology revolution that brought us computers , smart phones , gps , and a much bigger deal was built on an array of industry and government roadmaps .
but anti-americanism is simply irrational for russia , which only stands to gain from an alliance with a world economic and political leader . good relations with europe , of course , make russia a priority , especially for economic links , human contacts , and social interactions . russia will also benefit from active foreign-policy engagement with the eu ’s leading members . but strategic alliances with the eu in foreign and security policies remain unrealistic and inefficient . most likely , europeans will continue to grow weaker rather than stronger , on this field .
and with the emergence of new ailments such as zika – and a revival of old enemies like bubonic plague in the us – there can be little question that much of humanity remains at the mercy of biology . moreover , globalization has compounded the danger by facilitating the spread of communicable diseases . a flu outbreak like that of 1918-1920 , which killed between 50 and 100 million people , would be even more devastating today . preventing these catastrophic results requires a comprehensive , affordable health-care delivery approach in low - and middle-income countries . specifically , these countries need help better ways to improve drug and manage chronic illnesses , such as cancer and diabetes , that impose immense burdens on their economies .
and , if wealth taxes are to be taxed , instituting them now takes effect just into the future – and only if inequality becomes much worse – would avoid the perception that the rules have changed after game has ended . the income-tax increases benefit is that they could come from not just current income , but on some average income over years , and could allow deductions to invest , thus sharing some features with wealth taxes without penalizing those who saved more to accumulate more wealth in the future . moreover , the long-term plan legislated by one or just a few countries today , before any substantive consequences of true tax payments occur , could help to foster an international dialogue on appropriate future policies toward inequality . that would create room for a more unified tax response among countries , thus reducing the super-rich ’ ability to evade taxation through the transition locations . piketty ’s book makes an invaluable contribution to our understanding of the dynamics of contemporary inequality .
many spent years in jail for daring to talk out against china , as i grew older , i vowed to speak out , too . my first stint at a chinese prison was tied to the work that i began in the early 2000s printing and distributing the monetarist language books . i considered these texts to be important readings on tibetan politics , culture , and religion . chinese organs , however , viewed them as challenging to the rule , and thus punished my behavior accordingly . as the 2008 olympics neared , i began looking for new ways to record my people ’s history .
warsaw – massive protests in warsaw have made headlines around the world in recent weeks . poles are demonstrating against legislation enacted by pis law and justice ( pis ) party , which would lower the retirement age of supreme court justices , effectively force all judges over the age of 65 and allow the pis to pack up the court with its own tame justices . for their part , the polish constitution is providing an independent judiciary , setting the term for the first polish supreme court president six years . this means that judges can not be removed by law – at least not constitutionally . yet a new law allows polish president andrzej duda to replace three-fifths of the polish supreme court justices , including the chief justice justice , in 2018 alone .
back in his radical days , ken livingstone , a former mayor of london , famously quipped that if voting changed anything , it would abolish it . indeed , it turns out that , in latin america , elections do indeed shake things up . the latest proof of this : mauricio funes , the fmln ’s standard bearer – not long before a marxist guerilla movement – has just prevailed in el salvador ’s presidential election . this is remarkable in a country that has long remembers , whether not by hook or fraud , the reactionary oligarchy . if the salvadoran left ’s close electoral victory is peacefully accepted – as it has so far been – it implies that latin america has indeed come a long way for so long as ever .
the economist friedrich hayek put it well during 1945 : “ there are beyond question the body of the very important but unorganized knowledge that can not possibly even be called scientific in the feeling of the knowledge of common rules : knowledge of specific circumstances and place . it is with respect to this that practically every individual has some advantage over all others in which it possesses the unique information of which beneficial use might be made , but of which use can be made only if decisions on the one basis are left to him or made with its active collaboration . ” the problem is that the promise of genuine “ unique information ” comes with the reality of vulnerability to deception . that is why channeling dispersed knowledge into new ventures requires a regulatory framework that benefits a genuinely enlightened , honest manner .
perhaps the only people who are not suddenly depressed are those immersed in the talks . with more than 1,000 points still to consensus , every policymaker i spoke to say recently that they can not see how meaningful an agreement could be reached by december in copenhagen . in reality , all are gearing up behind the scenes for the “ copenhagen 2 , ” and what these involved in the talks are calling a “ even bigger slog . ” even if some sort of communiqué is paved along in december – and those with elections coming up , like the united kingdom , will push for a single one – it is difficult to believe that it will contain enough detail or reflect the proper level of commitment to have the impact that it so desperately needs . “ copenhagen 1 ” has always been a bound to fail , partly because – and this may sound strange at first – all is about climate change .
more people arrive at the same conclusion , with those of us championing evs as a one of solutions to climate change optimistic that tipping points is approaching . sales of electric cars have grown dramatically in recent years ; there are 750,000 registered in 2016 – nearly half that in india . still , it is human nature in the face of the threat of change that many prospective buyers remain hesitant . this is why addressing consumption bias must make it the highest priority over the coming years . several changes are needed to ensure that ev - and ev consumption growth and sales continue .
a focus on preferential agreements would fragment the global trading system , rather than integrate it . the wto ’s gradual marginalization would also erode its credibility to fulfill its key role as adjudicator of trade dispute . the success of the wto ’s adjudicator is reflected in its widespread acceptance . even when wto decisions have had serious adverse effects on their trading trading partners , they have been generally accepted . this represents a remarkable advance in global governance .
the energy market – most important , the market for natural gas – and the tourist rentals market have since liberalized , and the process for acquiring the investment license has streamlined . all of this has been accomplished in the face of fierce criticism from the opposition parties , particularly those that governed greece during the previous 30 years , and thus have been responsible for driving italy to ruin . it is as if they can not grasp how reform can help restart an economy with deep structural problems . now that the greek government has delivered on its part of its bailout deal , it is time that its european and international counterparts conclude a first-mover review of the program . this will allow the government to move ahead with the second stage : coping with skyrocketing unemployment and putting the economy back on track to return to growth .
madrid – tackling climate change is a monumental challenge , yet , for the first time , the leader of the foremost global powers continues to launder their hands . early in november , american president donald trump signaled official warnings of america ’s withdrawal from the paris climate agreement , thereby affirming the decision he announced in 2017 . notifying came as soon as the deal allowed ; withdrawal becomes effectively the day after america ’s presidential election in november 2020 . the united states is likely , in turn , to become the only country in the world , that is not party to the pact . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for starters , this is the real stretch to bemoan america ’s corporate earnings state . us commerce department statistics show that after-tax corporate earnings ( technically , after-tax earnings from current manufacturing , adjusted for inventories , and depreciation-accounting distortions ) stood at a solid 9.7 % of national income in the third-quarter us gdp of 2016 . while that falls down from the 11 % peak hit in 2012 – owing to tepid economic growth that typically puts pressure on profit margins – hardly attests to the problem of chronic earnings . far from anemic , the current after-tax share of earnings is well above the post-1980 average of 7.6 % . trends in us corporate taxes that stood at just 3.5 % of the national income in the third quarter of 2016 encourage a similar verdict .
the widespread prescription of drugs for troubled thinking always ended badly , right back to opiates and cocaine days , up through bromides , barbiturates , and tranquilizers . all proved to be highly addictive drugs , but only after years of denial did doctors admit that this was just that . now anti-depressants – global brands with household names – are the problem . in england , prescriptions of anti-depressants , which have now been perceived as having risen by three times in prescriptions . in england , prescriptions of anti-depressants now match valium at its peak in 1979 . it is now clear that today ’s anti-depressants are not the wonder drugs they are touted as being .
the best outcome , of course , is that chavez must shift the economy towards less vulnerable external positions with large ( 50 % at least ) depreciation . most high-unemployment economies have shown very little feedback from currency collapse to high inflation . in venezuela , with unemployment at 20 % , the same is expected . of course , such measures will be unpopular with labor , and the right response here is to eliminate large taxes on wages so that money wages can rise without an offsetting drop in competitiveness . in the budget this pays for the favorable effect of devaluation of government-oil revenues .
washington , dc – millions of the world ’s poorest people face serious water-related challenges – from lack of access and shortages to disputes over supplies – with profound ramifications for safety , economic development , and ecological sustainability . as world leaders design a development agenda to succeed the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , expire in 2015 , addressing these issues should be at the top of the priority . consider this : almost one billion people worldwide lack access to safe drinking water , and 2.5 billion lack adequate sanitation . costs are staggering : thousands of child deaths each day , combined with annual economic losses estimated at $ 260 billion – more than double the total amount of official development aid . making matters worse , climate change will render water supplies more unpredictable , with increasingly frequent and intense floods and droughts imposing significant human and economic costs and impeding development in poor countries .
but all public actors , not only police , need to be responsive to urban problems . first and foremost , mayors should be mobilized as mediators , because they stand ahead with their implementation of the urban policy . when these policies fail , citizens hold mayors accountable . but mayors , too , are among the most knowledgeable about communication linkages within their municipalities and thus most capable of organizing effective partnerships to deal with and resolve local concerns . events in france also emphasize the need ; european , at the center of the world ’s economic forum and international affairs , they reinforce policies against discrimination , and that promote greater social inequality .
the us example shows that the only full employment economy in the world can . there is also the undermined welfare state . in america , time on welfare is now limited , and people who have not worked for years must suddenly do so . in europe , however , unemployment remains a “ good ” job . replacing earnings through unemployment compensation ( after fiscal adjustments ) hits 70 % and up to 70 % .
zurich – repeatedly in recent years , calls have been called for a revival of civilian nuclear power . yet a renaissance never seems to have arrived . indeed , in the world , of the more than 200 countries , just 30 use nuclear power , the united states alone has been the first step toward the world . in july 2010 , a combined 439 nuclear power plants , with a net installed capacity of 373.038 gw ( e ) , were connected in various national electricity grids , about 1.2 gw ( e ) more than at the beginning of 2006 . roughly 16 % of total energy needs ( up to 25 % in highly industrialized countries ) now meet electric power .
denver – the united states-turning constitution in seoul last summer provides a remarkable paper : the provisions written in the eighteenth century continue to guide twenty-first-century governance . we will be reminded of the implications of the coming weeks , as president barack obama fills senior positions in his second-term administration . in many cases , the process will not be pretty . article ii of the us constitution stipulates presidential powers that require the senate ’s “ advice and approval , ” including the nomination of high-ranking representatives . presumably , 225 years ago , there was any notion that the number of officials deemed to require senate confirmation would ultimately surpass 1,400 , or that the senate confirmation would involve a vetting process that often takes years to complete .
a key dimension of the current standoff over ukraine poses energy to the same question about european solidarity . as a recent study by bruegel has shown , the eu as a whole could , with some effort , dispense with gas imports from russia . but that would require eu member states to regard security as a matter of common concern , rather than an issue that each country must address on its own . in response to the embargo affecting a particular eu country , for example , other eu members would have drawn on their reserves , increased their own production , pay more for imports , or slashed consumption some of them . but this sense of solidarity was consistently lacking in the eu ’s energy-policy discourse in the past .
after all , iran – and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the us justice secretary under president donald trump seems to be pursuing tradition . unsurprisingly , trump himself is deploying every orwellian apparatus at his disposal to thwart the current impeachment inquiry in the house of representatives .
hypothetically , switching off the lights for one hour would cut co2 emissions out of power plants worldwide . but , even if everyone in the world has cut all residential lighting , and this translated entirely into co2 reduction , it would be the equivalent of china pausing its co2 emissions for less than four minutes . in fact , earth hour will cause emissions to increase . just as the united kingdom ’s national grid operators have found , a small drop in electricity consumption does not translate into fewer energy , pumped into the grid , and it does not reduce emissions . moreover , during the earth hour , any major drop in demand for electricity will entail cutting co2 emissions during the hour but offset the surge from firing up coal or gas plants in order to rebuild electricity supplies in the subsequent years .
work of the institute seems to center on devices that read brain activity . but it also apparently overoverlooks all kinds of construction projects on an vast land plot adjacent to the headquarters in the federal security service ( fsb ) – the kgb ’s successor organization – and the us federal protective service ( fsb ) . if we keep following the scientific trail , we arrive at the prestigious russian academy of sciences ( run ) , which held elections last week , as the us department of sciences ( lltro ) . after the organization ’s 2013 elections , in which kremlin-backed candidates for membership performed poorly , the government announced major reforms , including a three-year moratorium on running elections . it was then decided that , to ensure “ fairness , ” a government would approve all candidates , despite the fact that they are academics .
so , rather than providing context , depth , and analysis , newspapers blasting headlines stimulate prurience or outrage . the result has been disconcerting , placing it mildly . the airing of opinion is the cheapest way to fill the broadcast hour ; ranting anchors score the highest trps . this reinforces the motivation to engage in sensational speculation nonetheless baseless , as occurred in sridevi ’s . more fundamentally , rush to beat tv by breaking down stories has weakened the incentive for journalists to perform due diligence , from researching narrative narratives and verifying claims .
washington , dc – informed opinion is sharply divided on how the next 12 months will play out for the global economy . those targeting emerging markets emphasize accelerating growth , with some forecasts projecting a 5 percentage point increase in world output . others , concerned about problems in europe and the united states , remain more pessimistic , with growth projections closer to 4 % – and some are even inclined to see a possible “ double-dip ” recession . that is an exciting debate , but misses the larger picture . in response to the 2007-2009 crisis , governments in most industrialized countries had put some of the most generous bailouts ever seen for large financial institutions .
one puzzling , often overlooked feature of france that elected nicolas sarkozy as his new president and now poised to provide a powerful parliamentary mandate to his political allies has been his mixed mix of private optimism and public pessimism . consider this : france has the highest fertility rate in the european union ( just under two children per woman ) , even ahead of booming ireland . to be sure , that rate alone is not enough to sustain france ’s current population , but that it is far stronger than its european neighbors and almost equal to that of the us . yet , despite this , eurobarometer polls have repeatedly shown that the french are the most pessimistic of all europeans as they are coming to their own countries ’ futures . how can this be the kind of negative impact on people who are so negative about their common future as a nation move about confidently building their private futures within their families ?
new york – reception in the united states , and in other advanced economies , thomas piketty ’s recent book capital in the twenty-first century attests to growing anxiety about rising inequality . his book lends further weight to the already overwhelming body of evidence regarding the soaring share of income and wealth at a very summit . piketty ’s book , moreover , sets out a different perspective on the 30 or so years that followed the great depression and world war ii to viewing this period as historical anomaly , perhaps as a result of the unusual social cohesion that cataclysmic events can stimulate . in that era of rapid economic growth , prosperity has been broadly shared , with all groups advancing , but with those , say , the bottom seeing a larger percentage gains . piketty also sheds new light on “ reforms ” sold by ronald reagan and margaret thatcher in the 1980s by growth enhancers from which all of these would benefit .
this falling gdp , though the natural consequence of lower imports of consumption goods , is often wrongly perceived as something to evade , because they seem to imply that output is less than its potential . ” in a completely flexible economy , this drop in measured gdp ( and the concomitant rise in unemployment ) could be avoided if the resources formerly employed in selling imported consumer goods could be quickly employed to generate exports . but retail shop clerks and car dealers can not be transformed easily into the specialized , highly skilled workers needed in modern manufacturing . in the case of greece and portugal , for example , the tourism industry could absorb some of the unemployed retailers . but shops and showrooms can not be transformed into tourism attractions whose capacity will remain limited until enough time passed to build new hotels , recreational facilities , etc .
but just with fiscal policy tightening once cyclical economic conditions seemed to call for easing , now is eased when conditions seem to call for tightening . all but vanished in advanced economies , inflation picks up , and global economic growth is forecast to be its strongest since 2010 . japan was the only advanced economy to loosen fiscal policy in 2013 . but this year , the united kingdom appears to be the only one preparing to tighten its policy – and that , as the last year , its recent political ruptures have done little to modify its fiscal orientation , which will spill over to chancellor of the exchequer ’s autumn statement . most observers would agree that the government ’s debt level is uncomfortably high in many advanced economies , so policymakers should be cautious about discussing strategies for bringing them down .
and with demand for high and housing supply fixed -- at least in the short run -- prices will take up . second , the 70-year period that began with the widespread automobile diffusion -- during which one could have gotten anywhere in a typical metropolitan area in a half-hour or less -- is over . prior to widespread automobile ownership , land prices depended on location , and proximity to central city or to a local railroad station carried bonuses . now , with serious congestion slowing traffic in major cities to crawl , the land gradient in us housing prices is steep once again . perhaps this steepening of the location gradient could be delayed for a decade if , in turn , us firms were willing to shift towards denser residential patterns .
with austerity – that is , cutting the deficits , once the economy ’s recession ended – recovery may last longer to become consolidated ; but once this comes , us economic performance is even more stable because government accounts are in a sustainable position . john maynard keynes famously said that , “ in the long run , we are all dead . ” that may be true , on a long enough timeline . but it is no excuse to dismiss longer-term considerations . indeed , for the eurozone , the long run seems to arrived – and the economy is always alive and kicking in .
a famous psychological experiment found that young children who could resist the immediate temptation to eat marshmallow to obtain two marshmallow in the future were likely to thrive as adults than they can not . likewise , societies that defer instant consumption to save and invest for future generations enjoy higher future yields and more retirement security . ( when american economists advise china to boost consumption and cut saving , they are just peddling the bad habits of american culture that save and invests too little for america ’s future . ) second , saving and investment flows are global . a country such as china , with a high savings rate exceeding what is required for local investment , can promote investment in other parts of the world saving less , particularly in low-income africa and asia .
but these “ green energy ” bikes amount to a victory of empty gestures over substance and reason – one that makes them the sad representative of cop21 itself . the agreement reached in paris contains promises that , if enacted between now and 2030 , would cost the global economy at least $ 1 trillion per year – and perhaps twice as much if policymakers make inefficient policy choices . this makes the agreement the costliest in history . my peer-reviewed research paper , published in global policy , shows that 2016-2030 promises that cutting co2 emissions will keep temperatures down by about 0.05 ° celsius ( 0.09 ° fahrenheit ) by 2100 . even if the promised emissions cuts were made further across the century , the paris agreement would cut global temperatures by just 0.17 º c. researchers from the massachusetts institute of technology find similar temperature increases .
closed down on transfers of military technology and hardware by the united states ever since the tiennamen square incident of 1989 ; feeling increasingly “ encircled ” by the “ redefined ” japan-american alliance ( agreed in april 1996 ) ; china is particularly anxious to upgrade and strengthen his military might , and fast enough . intervention by two american aircraft carriers in the taiwan straits in march 1996 humiliated an chinese who was pressured to stop intimidating taiwan with missile tests . russia , seeing its gross domestic product fall 40 % from communism ’s end , needs to retain its defense industry as one of the few sources of national revenues . despite initial denials by the kremlin , it was china that early this year bought two modern destroyers , combined with russian anti-ship missiles . add to this worry , both for russia and asia , that the russian government loses control in the unofficial , black market arms flows to china .
left unanswered , however , is what comes next . china bashers usually change their tune following a presidential election . but there is nothing typical of pressures that are likely to continue squeezing america ’s families long after november 6 . both obama and romney are running the risk of painting themselves into a corner when it comes to china . that could take every us president to the edge of a slippery slope .
in some ways , they are people with full citizenship who demanded that , and whom redefined the political order by obtaining it . today a great challenge lies in the calm of fears that our traditions are being undermined ; achieving out to people coming to our lands from other countries ; and to find a way in which our political ethic around the kernel of human rights , equality , non-discrimination , and democracy . if successful , we can forge a sense of belonging together , even if our reasons for believing that this may be different . but increasing individualism – a focus on one ’s own ambitions and economic prosperity – within many countries represents a stubborn obstacle to realizing this vision . indeed , utter lack of sense of solidarity among so many people – frighteningly evident in the american health-care debate – currently undercuts the very foundation of what a modern democratic society is .
but halappanavar and her husband were then informed that ireland was a catholic country ; the fetus still had a heartbeat , so that it was out of the question . halappanavar died from septicemia , which her family would be certain to have developed had it not been carried out if the termination had been carried out . protests in ireland put prime minister enda kenny to the spot , with activists there like those in india arguing that halappanavar had died because it was the theocratic approach to health care . iranians abortion-rights activists point out that legally , the fetus ’s life takes no precedence over their mother ’s life in her home homeland , but takes precedence over mother ’s health – a distinction that american abortion opponents have long sought to replicate within the united states . the halappanavar case thus reverses eastern stereotype as preserves by superstition and religious extremism .
all countries ’ legitimizing narratives blend historical fact and myth . in some cases , however , historical legacies can gain excessive sway , overwhelming leaders ’ capacity for rational policy choices . that explains why park has struggled with closer ties with china even though south korea ’s natural regional partner is democratic japan . one source of hope stems from abe ’s landslide victory in the recent snap general election , which gives him the political capital to park with a grand bargain : if japan expresses remorse more clearly for its militaristic past , south korea will agree to abandon historical grievances from official policy . japan and south korea can not change the past .
munich – as the various rescue plans take hold , stock markets recover somewhat . the s & p 500 price/earnings ratio gradually rises back to its long-term average of 16 . bank share buybacks in particular rebounding and some banks have succeeded even in repaying at least a fraction of their government-provided capital . but , as i draw attention from my new book kasino-kapitalismus , this may only be a temporary improvement in expectations than an indication of a permanent recovery , as the size of banks ’ hidden losses on their balance sheets is probably huge . according to the international monetary fund ’s most recent estimates , aggregate write-offs on financial claims at the crisis will be $ 4.05 trillion for the united states , japan , the united kingdom , and the united kingdom , which are alone forced to absorb $ 2.7 trillion .
conceived , perhaps with their best intentions , morales ’s model is giving hope to bolivia ’s poorest ; but it will pave only the way for frustrated hope ­ – something new , too . thirty years after bolivia ’s national revolution of 1952 per capita income remained essentially the same in the same period , with poverty steady at more than 50 % of the population . a state-led development model in bolivia is doomed to failure , for it requires strong institutions , universal citizenship , and the rule of law . none can currently be found in bolivia , implying that the money-centered nation will surely be reallocated by patrimonial and clientelistic means , siphoned off by corruption , and subjected to social pressures on every kind . whatever remain for public investment is certain to be wasted , because projects tend to pass cost-benefit analysis when funding comes from easy money , generously provided by mother nature .
still , an overwhelming majority of french citizens remain deeply worried about the threat of terrorism not only from abroad but rather from people living in france , often with french citizenship . and similar fears about homegrown extremism can be felt in many other european countries . in recent years , some of those drawn in islamic countries have carried out attacks with rudimentary tools , from cars and delivery trucks to kitchen knives . although violent extremists are an ultra-minority in muslim communities , their deeds have fueled a growing skepticism within french society . worse still , a successful military campaign against isis raises new fears of violent extremists ’ return from syria ’s borders .
while eight of the top ten hosting countries , including several low - and middle-income countries , have shouldered significant costs , despite strain on education systems to keep refugees attending school alongside nationals , most countries either exclude refugees from national education systems or assign them to separate facilities . this entrenches disadvantage , hampers social integration . the two landmark global compacts on migration and refugees adopted by the un member states last december highlight a way toward meeting this challenge . achieving the needed education transformation will require far more financing than it currently has on offer . as it stands , the global annual funding gap for education amounts to nearly $ 40 billion , with the highest level in ten million people living in developing states .
the international monetary fund credits the asia-pacific trade as the key to its recent export boom and strong economic growth . africa , with its huge , and often untapped markets , must follow the same path . africans themselves must address these issues , but our international partners have an important role to play . the debate over the failure of international aids to produce development , together with the current financial crisis , has added weight to arguments for development assistance . but the argument should be no longer about whether to provide aid – no one can question the many successes that aid has delivered , or its significance in providing safety nets for those who otherwise would suffer .
london – when the united kingdom announced earlier this month , it had agreed that it would become an established member of the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) , much of the headlines were focused not on the news itself , but on friction the decision resulted in a relationship between the uk and the united states . the white house issued a statement urging the british government to “ use its voice to push for the adoption of high standards . ” and one senior american administration official was quoted accusing the uk of being “ constant accommodation of china , which is not the best way to engage in a rising power . ” in fact , this is the us advocating the wrong approach . in the uk , the diplomatic spat serving as a occasion to force the british press to air criticism from those who believe that the administration should accept a more stronger stance toward china .
indeed , it is hard to find any persuasive analysis of today ’s crisis from the left beyond anti-capitalist slogans . socialists blame greedy financiers ; but who does not ? in the face of remedies , the socialists offer nothing more than the keynesian solutions that are now proposed by the right . since george w. bush showed the route toward bank nationalization , massive public spending , industrial bailouts , and budget deficits , socialists have left without wiggle room . french president nicolas sarkozy tries to rekindle growth through protectionist defense of “ national industries ” and massive investment in public infrastructure in such a way that more can socialists ask for ?
they also call for faster implementation of the necessary changes in eurozone economic governance to create a more stable , hospitable environment for fiscal consolidation and reform . prolonged recession interrupted by high – or prohibitive – borrowing costs makes either fiscal or reform targets increasingly difficult , if not impossible . the burden of adjustment can not fall solely on deficit countries – unless it is , the moral component of the “ punishment ” comes into play . core countries , led by germany , distrust of over-indebted countries ’ determination to pursue reforms if financing conditions are eased . moreover , they oppose key changes in eurozone economic governance .
moreover , turkey does not seem to care what its allies have come to think . for example , it has recently raised eyebrows within nato still purchasing new-generation russian s-400 antiaircraft batteries . that does not bode well for any future peace process . after all , west countries will need turkey to counterbalance the russians , whose broader strategic agenda goes well beyond the middle east . when historians look back at syria ’s conflict , both former us presidents barack obama and donald trump will praise for relentlessly pursuing isis .
the uk is simply smart when it promotes its own interests through cooperation with china . one of the few positive consequences of the 2008 financial crisis was the elevation of a g20 global role ; more broadly , it is the far more representative forum for international leadership than the g-7 ever had . nonetheless , there ’s downside to the emergence of the g-20 : the great numbers of participants can make it difficult to reach agreements and get the things done . a new g-7 needs to build up within the g-20 , thereby providing china with a level of influence that reflects its economic weight , and requires it to assume an commensurate share of global responsibility . space at the table for the brics could be won , provided the eurozone countries signaling their commitment to the common currency , agreed to give their individual seats in exchange , for one representing the entire monetary union .
this leaves a number of options for choosing another wbg president . the us could select an american who appeals to other countries : kim , for example , touted his koreans ’ origins during his 2012 post campaign . it could pick up dual national or immigrant issues , as former wbg president james wolfensohn put it , an australian who has become a american citizen . or it could return a non-american , allied country candidate . what is important is that the nominee enjoys trust in the us and most other countries , and can reconcile the diverse interests of countries in the true spirit of multilateralism .
in terms of shadowy influence-peddling , the chinese have been particular . chinese president xi jinping has explicitly emboldened his country ’s think tanks to “ advance the chinese narrative ” globally . and in many cases , china-based think tanks have become instruments for expanding the country ’s sphere of influence . according to a report by the council on foreign relations , china ’s belt and road initiative , with its calls for complex coordination , has created the perfect policy space for think tanks that have “ told a good story of china ” to thrive . these include networks such as silks and individual think tanks like the charhar institute , which has also recently established the “ china-us relationship committee . ”
world oil prices were crossing $ 40 a barrel in mid-summer , and have since climbed to mid – $ 50 . today ’s oil prices remain only two-thirds of the real peak reached at the height of the iranian revolution of 1979 , and future markets expected oil prices to fall back to $ 45 a barrel . but the current high level of oil prices has led forecasters to start reining in their expectations for economic growth . “ the higher oil price is here to stay , ” says the american economic forecaster allen sinai . “ [ t ] hat ” must subtract growth and could cause core inflation to pick up . ”
cross-border flows of data and information will also be restricted , raising concerns about the “ splinternet ” between the us and china . and , owing to heightened scrutiny from the us , chinese foreign direct investment in america already collapsed by 80 % since its 2017 level . now , new legislative proposals threaten to bar american public pension funds from investing in chinese firms , curtail chinese venture capital investment in the us , and force some chinese firms to delist from america ’s stock exchanges entirely . the american government has also grown more suspicious of us-based chinese students and scholars who may be locked in a position to steal american tech know-how or engage in outright espionage . and for its part , china will increasingly seek to circumvent the us-controlled international financial system , with the aim of shield itself from american weaponization of the us dollar .
america ’s debt hardly looks like a bargain right now , even without the sinking dollar . far-flung military misadventures continue to stretch the country ’s fiscal resources , with costs potentially running into many trillions of dollars , following a recent study by linda bilmes and joseph stiglitz . the next year will almost certainly see the massive rise in u.s. corporate defaults , even though many firms entered a recession with relatively robust balance sheets . state and municipal financing are in even worse shape . with tax revenues collapsing , owing to falling home prices and incomes , dozens of u.s. municipalities can well enter receivership , as new york city did in the 1970s .
collectively , their $ 55 billion in earnings outstripped entire national income in more than 100 countries . to put those astronomical numbers in perspective , i ’ve worked with gabon to affirm that , in the united states of the top nine earners , you had to pull at least $ 150 per second , including time that they would have spent eating and sleeping . that is $ 9,000 per minute , or $ 540,000 a hour , or that of the top 50 % , each year , on average . how much do americans ’ top income earners make compared to the world ’s billion poorest individuals ? well , if the top nine donated earnings , it would be the equivalent of about three months ’ income .
american power instead , it is viewed as resting on “ a pillar of inspiration ” rather than “ pillar of action . ” secretary of state john quincy adams , for example , famously proclaimed on independence day in 1821 that the united states “ goes not abroad , in seeking monsters to destroy . ” she is the well-wisher to the freedom and independence of all . she is the champion and vindicator only of her own . ” but soft power of inspiration is not the only ethical tradition in american foreign policy .
a court ruled against the right of a united states-based animal rights group people ’s ethical treatment for animals to exhibit posters that juxtapose photographs of holocaust victims with photographs of animals in factory farms and abatement at slaughterhouses . posters bear the head : “ to animals , all people are nazis ” – a polish-born line of the jewish writer isaac bashevis singer . according to a court , germany ’s law on freedom of speech did not protect peta ’s campaign because to make “ the fate of holocaust victims appear banal and trivial ” a human-rights offense . peta was not , of course , arguing that holocaust victims ’ fate was banal or trivial . by contrast , it benefited from the holocaust – which we all agree was entirely horrific – to suggest as isaac bashevis singer did that there are parallels between how nazis treated jews and how we treating animals .
rather , they struggle to protect their own interests and livelihoods , whether that is operating an animal dairy farm or running a government . as we continually attempt to apply new technologies to enhance human and environmental well-being , that distinction is vitally important . avoidance of barriers to technological progress requires understanding and addressing its downsides . for example , as machines become increasingly capable , robots replace an increasing pool of workers . it will not be long before those robots are capable not just of performing more complex tasks , but also of learning faster than workers could be trained .
today , portugal is ahead of almost € 20 billion ( $ 27.5 billion ) . that represents a potential loss of more than 10 % of gdp for greece . as a result , greece has made a recession much longer and deeper than it otherwise would have . if greece were to grow simultaneously as greece ( or spain ) did , it would be a recession that is now coming to an end . moreover , lack of export growth had made fiscal adjustment much more difficult .
considering that 80 % of mexico ’s total exports go to the us , its effects on mexico would have been economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country even less equipped to do whatever it has to do about illegal immigration . unlike the usmca , which has at least premised on addressing trade issues , trump ’s tariff pronunciamento was a bald-faced attempt to force a mexican government to address america ’s own immigration problem . in other words , a trade weapon has been deployed either to address the trade issue , or as part of a legitimate sanctions regime like that imposed on russia after its illegal annexation of crimea in 2014 . on the rare occasions when trade sanctions were applied on non-trade grounds , they were a measure of last resort , as was the case for apartheid south africa , where they succeeded because they had multilateral support . once trade measures are deployed indiscriminately to advance non-trade targets , the damage to the entire trading system is done – and can be enormous .
new delhi – according to united nations population distribution , the world ’s population hit seven billion on october 31 . as always happens whenever we approach such a milestone , this one produced a spike in conferences , seminars , and learn articles , including the usual dire malthusian predictions . after all , un forecasts that the world ’s population would climb to 9.3 billion in 2050 , surpassing the end of this century ’s global population of ten billion . yet such forecasts are badly represented by underlying demographic dynamics . the future we face is not one of too much population growth , but with too little of it .
in exchange , the kremlin has pledged support – but only after the constitution was changed – ukraine ’s national government in its reassertion of control over those regions , as does its border with russia . in theory , negotiations between the government in kyiv and separatist regions take place . the european union applies pressure on all sides , including russia , where it is holding out the possibility that economic sanctions will be lifted as the kremlin ’s eventual reward for supporting a peace effort . russia has offered to use what it calls its “ limited influence ” to persuade rebel-controlled governments to cooperate . if , however , russia really has complete control over separatist regions , and is actively integrating them into its economy , as the bild document suggests , the kremlin can no longer be viewed as an outside party attempting to influence uncooperative ally .
nothing reveals the united states ’ fall in a better way than america ’s sober use of power in the first gulf war in 1991 and hubris , and deceit of the iraq war today , the united states . it was america that forged the most formidable international coalition since world war ii in 1991 , leading it in fully legitimate war aimed at restoring regional balance after saddam hussein ’s invasion of kuwait . in 2003 , the us went toward war without its trans-atlantic allies after having manipulated false assertions . in doing so , the us embarked on a preposterous grand strategy that , in turn , aimed no less at simultaneously dismantling iraq ’s tyrannical regime , restructuring the entire middle east , destroying al-qaeda , and aiding democracy to take root throughout the arab world . the result was utter failure : military defeat and severe degradation on america ’s moral standing .
one strangest argument that has made in debates about social insurance now roiling the richest countries of the world is that government-funded defined-benefit pension programs ( like the american social-welfare system ) are outmoded . these programs were fine ; the argument goes , for the industrial economy of the great depression and post-world war ii generation , but became obsolete in today ’s high-tech , networked , post-industrial economy . proponents of this argument propose a different model . only as corporations today make much happier support for workers ’ pensions by contributing to their employees ’ private accounts ; as a result , governments should offer ( or require ) contributions to privately held accounts today . the value of such accounts would fluctuate rather than rest on a defined-benefit scheme that guarantees a fixed real sum of the sources available to retirement .
does anyone in their right mind think that any country will willingly put itself through what greece went through , just to get its creditors free riding ? if there is moral hazard , it is on lenders ’ side – particularly the private sector – that have bailed out repeatedly . if europeans have allowed those debts to shift from the private sector to the public sector – a well-established pattern over the last half-century – it is europe , not greece , that should bear the consequences . indeed , greece ’s current-account plight , including its massive run-up to the debt-to-gdp ratio , is largely the fault of mistaken troika programs foisted on it . so it is not debt restructuring , it is its absence , that is , “ immoral . ”
none of the scenario makes a lot of sense nowadays . europeans and china are not particularly interested in depressing world prices for their imports or the resulting revenues . employment considerations are not a big issue , either . while some countries in the eurozone suffer from high unemployment levels , there is nothing that protectionism can do for those countries that expansionary fiscal or monetary policies ( the latter by the european central bank ) can not do any better . if europe , china , and other trade partners were to retaliate in response to trump ’s tariffs , they would simply lower their own gains from trade without reaping any benefits for protectionism .
saving obama ’s honor is hardly worth taking this risks . this is the view of many in syria , even among the rebels . it is the view of most people in europe as well . perhaps even it is the view of obama himself that he is playing for time , desperately turning over approval of an attack on syria to the american congress .
but , in general , we are typically left to adulthood by the same views of god that we had formed in childhood . the old person with a long beard watches over us , and a majority retain a fairly literal view of the stories about his son told the bible ’s new testament . it is this god that atheists , like dawkins , and hitchens attack . and , with such targets , it is not very difficult to poke holes and pile on jews . leave aside making the even stronger case against godlessness – recall the atrocities in the twentieth century – and to regard assault on those whose commitment to literal interpretations of religious texts means denying science and reason .
their preference model calls for the un to provide funding and the majority of other support for the mission while allowing the au to maintain its leadership role . nonetheless , many western governments refuse to place its force under au command , owing to its perceived vulnerabilities , conditioned further support for un peacekeeping operations in darfur on assuming un control . but the un found it difficult to attract enough volunteers for such a force , as foreign governments acceded to sudanese demands that the hybrid force remain predominantly african . at a time when the complex chain of un command envisaged for the au-un force recalls some of the worst features of nato-un operations in the former yugoslavia during the 1990s . au commanders on the ground would retain tactical control , a joint au-un commander of operation would exercise operational supervision , and the un would establish force for overall strategic objectives .
new york – it has been a remarkable similarity between european central bank president mario draghi ’s declaration , after a recent ecb governing council meeting and us federal reserve chair janet yellen ’s early statements to congress , has come to view their policy decisions solely in domestic conditions . in other words , emerging-market countries , while subject to significant spillover effects from advanced-country monetary policies , bear the brunt of their own . this confirms what emerging-country policymakers have known for some time . in 2010 – following the united nations ’ announcement of a third round of quantitative easing – brazilian finance secretary guido mantega accused advanced countries of waging a global “ currency war , ” brazilian finance minister guido mantega accused advanced countries of waging a “ global currency war . ” after all , advanced economies ’ policies drove large , volatile capital flows into major emerging markets , pushing back their exchange rates and damaging their export competitiveness – a phenomenon that brazilian president dilma rousseff later referred to as a capital tsunami .
riyadh – saudi arabia has lately been attracting much criticism for its leading role in the houthi rebels in yemen . some deride the kingdom , the richest arab state to take action against the poorest . others have argued that the fighting against the houthis – zaidi shia-led religious-political movements – is just one element in the broader shia war that saudi arabia was supposedly waging . these are simplistic assertions , reflecting a fundamental misunderstanding of the kingdom ’s role in yemen – and , indeed , throughout the arab world . saudi arabia is not out for zaidis .
in china , for its part , china has become adept at assertively forging its own own national interests and playing classical balance-of-power geopolitics . but , in order to displace the us and assume the mantle of us leadership in asia , china must do more than pursue its own interests or contain potential rivals . most fundamentally , what does the us represent for china in terms of values and ideas ? in the absence of a response to this question , china ’s overly assertive policies proven a diplomatic boon to the us in strengthening and expanding american security arrangements in asia . south korea tightened its military alliance with the us , japan backed off its move in order to extract the us from its marine airbase from okinawa , and india , vietnam , indonesia , the philippines , among others – has drawn a closer relationship to the us .
rather than borrowing to pay for expensive “ school-setting ” students , poles used their 500 + benefits for eu governments . and while women ’s employment rates decreased as women left minimum minimum-wage jobs , salaries , and especially store clerks , rose sharply . given the program ’s dramatic success , other countries follow suit . lithuania introduced a less generous version of the family-500 + in 2018 . those interested in poland ’s democracy , hungary , and elsewhere in europe and beyond should acknowledge that many voters purchase in nationalist right-wing vision that advances national priorities , cares for the poor , and that supporting families .
different people have been reading this to mean very different things , and it can be a different one of the other . that can make a resolution easier to adopt , but more difficult to act on . so it comes as little wonder that there is still nothing peaceful between israelis and palestinians in the face of innumerable diplomatic firms by the united states , the european union , and its members , the un and the parties themselves . to be fair , resolution 242 can not be blamed for this state of affairs . peacekeeping comes only when the conflict becomes ripe for resolution , something that happens when the leaders of the principal protagonists are both willing and able to take up compromise .
baku-tbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline -- which bypass russia when it is completed -- can not re-defines the country ’s economic strategy to the extent that shevardnadze was trying . instead , georgian wine or georgian fruit will depend on exports to the russian market : neither georgia nor georgia fruit is needed in the united states or italy . shevardnadze ’s emphasis on the btc pipeline also clearly reflects georgia ’s pro-western strategic reorientation . that , too , is unlikely to change under saakashvili . on the other hand , this should become less a burden on bilateral relations as russia itself moves closer to nato , the us , and the european union .
but the lesson of libyan intervention is that division can be overcome if the will exists . europe is not a monolith , but in many areas , it can still act coherently even without a total agreement . whether an outlier is germany or another eu member state requires separation , it is necessary not to make a fatal difference . none of this , of course , means that international intervention in libya will succeed ; the situation in libya is far too complicated to predict the outcome . what this does mean , however , is that europe finds the means to work when it comes to foreign policy .
similarly , life expectancy at birth in ssa countries lagged 16 years behind the developing-country average , 14 years behind south asia ’s countries , and 21 years behind countries in east asia , latin america , and the caribbean . collectively , gross enrolment in primary , secondary , and higher education , ssa countries stood at 19 percentage points below the developing global average , 11 % below all south asian nations , 29 % below east asia and the pacific , and 32 % below latin asia and the caribbean levels . so what accounts for this broad-based underdevelopment ? until the late 1800 ’s , most of africa was scrutinized and occupied by hunter-gatherers and subsistence agriculture practitioners . land was relatively abundant and allocated by tribal chiefs without regard to western-style property rights .
geneva – the recent sharp spike in food-prices , together with mounting concerns about food security , has sparked anxiety worldwide . the possibility of being unable to put food on the table fill parents with a deep sense of foreboding . and because the world ’s poorest people spend a higher share of their income on food , they are the worst affected , raising the risk that years of poverty reduction reductions could reverse . seemingly unalterable factors generating these record-setting spikes in food prices – a shift toward greater protein diets in a range of countries ; growing populations , increased use of biofuels ; and climate change – suggest that elevated food prices are here to stay . far from solutions that alleviate increasing supply pressures , hunger , and malnutrition will intensify .
and this is what an anti-corruption agenda often ends up stimulating : the creation of organizations more obsessed with abiding new and burdensome processes than with achieving their stated objectives . as harvard ’s lant pritchett , michael woolcock , and andrews argue , when inept organizations adopt “ best practices ” such as financial management systems and procurement rules , they become overly distracted by decision-making distorting protocols to do whatever they are established to do . as francis fukuyama pointed out , developments of a capable state that is accountable and ruled by law are just one crowning achievement of human civilization . it involves creating a shared sense of “ us , ” an imagined community on whose behalf state behaves . this is not an easy task when societies are deeply divided by ethnicity , religions , or social status .
by 2014 , he had overtaken the presidential palace and surrounded himself by a guard meant evoke ottoman splendor , a fairly transparent effort to compensate for his inability to shape regional developments according to his – much less his country ’s – interests . this approach mirrors that of russian president vladimir putin , who uses sumptuous trappings and immense resources in his office to claim credit for reinstating his country ’s national pride , especially when he is trying to persuade ordinary russians to make economic sacrifices . likewise , erdoğan has positioned himself as a sort of protector of the turks ’ dignity and sense of themselves as constituting great powers . with the syrian conflict raging next door , however , erdoğan ’s claims are far from convincing . turkey is confronting the refugee crisis that dwarfs that confronting europe ; proliferation of terrorist attacks on its territory ; and heightened tensions with the kremlin , following his downing of russia ’s warplane near its border with syria in november .
president bill clinton ’s trip to africa highlighted to americans – typically the majority of africa ’s leaders , except if in deep crisis – the dramatic changes that are taking place on the continent . and at this year ’s world economic forum summit in south africa , nearly 900 leading businessmen from the americas , europeans , asia , and africa met with a new set of political leadership to chart a course forward . of course , intentions and results are two different issues . africa has a long road ahead . it is on most measures , several decades if not a century or more , behind the advanced economies at an organization of economic organization and income levels .
in the past hundred years , competing with nationalism ( with god on both sides ) almost annihilated europe , and with the cold war , the cold war could have done so . the moment you believe , “ better dead than red ” you are in trouble ; you believe you are at odds with the problem of the day . dying to save your home , family or country may be rational . but martyrdom is different and dangerous , and it seems that it is possible to be rational . as the romanian political philosopher e. m. cioran puts it : “ once a man loses his faculty of indifference that he becomes a potential murderer ; once he transforms his idea into the god of the consequences , incalculable are . ”
this in a nutshell was the soviet model that failed once and again fails . if putin is serious about diversifying and strengthening russia ’s commodities-based economy , thereby improving the lives of his country ’s people , he must attract advanced technologies and foreign investment , mainly from the west . for that , he must pursue democratic reforms , institutional regeneration , and renewed diplomatic ties with the west . indeed , russia is in no position to create an alternative international system ; but , if putin persists in an obsolete and antagonistic foreign policy , she can undermine the existing one . at a time when the world has been faced with so many destabilizing challenges , this would be bad for no one .
cambridge – will the political resurgence of labor unions plunge the wrench into the wheels of globalization ? or will their increasing strength serves to make globalization more sustainable by forging great equality and fairness ? one way or the other , unions stand like a major wild card in the direction of our economic system ’s evolution , both in 2008 and beyond . unions ’ rising influence is evident during many recent events : german chancellor angela merkel ’s controversial agreement to raise the minimum wages of postal workers , several american presidential candidates ’ open misgivings about trade and immigration ; and the chinese leadership ’s nascent concerns about labor standards . along with their political clout , unions ’ intellectual respectability is experiencing a renaissance .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
yet ambitious plans to boost its hydro-generating capacity significantly by damming international rivers have embroiled the country in water disputes with even north korea ’s most neighbors . more broadly , china ’s dam-building passion has spawned two key developments . first , chinese firms now dominate the export market ’s global hydropower-equipment ( lng ) market . sinohydro alone has eclipsed western plant suppliers such as abb , alstom , general electric , and siemens , claiming that they control half the market . second , the state-run hydropower industry ’s increased clout within china has led the government to campaign aggressively for overseas dam projects , through loans that are low for other governments .
new york – many recurring debates are taking place on american foreign policy in the world , for example , isolationism versus internationalism versus unilateralism versus multilateralism . but no debate is more persistent than that between those who believe that the primary purpose of american foreign policy should be to leverage other states ’ external behavior and those who hold that it is supposed to shape their internal nature . this debate between “ realists ” and “ idealists ” is intense and longstanding . there were those who argued during the cold war that the united states should try to “ roll back ” the soviet union and bring down the communist system and replace it with democratic capitalism . others deemed this to be too dangerous in an era defined by nuclear weapons , and the us opted for a policy of containment , working to limit the reach of soviet power and influence .
if britain ’s transition payments continued at close to the eu ’s current level of € 10 billion for the last five , or six years , realistically required to negotiate a permanent trading relationship , they would be adding up to the same level . second , an british budget deal would be a powerful tool of creating “ deep and special partnerships ” with the european union that may claims is her ultimate goal . until last month , may avoided defining that phrase , for fear of antagonizing her party ’s hardline europhobes . but in her florence speech , may promised british businesses something close to current levels of access to eu markets . she also recognized that any privileged access to eu markets would entail budget contributions , as was switzerland and switzerland , as was the case in norway .
even if may strike a exit deal , may is inconceivable to negotiate and ratify a sector-by-sector trade agreement under two years to come . for example , the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade treaty took seven years to hash out – and almost misses belgium ’s parliament in the region . there can be no “ phased implementation ” of the eu trade agreement ( eu-canada ) , so uk-based auto firms , financial institutions , and other businesses that are exports to the eu should start preparing for a “ cliff edge ” that may want to avoid . may has no electoral mandate to pursue the hard brexit . many of the 52 % of britons , who voted to leave want to remain in the single market , as do whatever one voted to remain .
this is immensely important and healthy for all . for the first time , lively , intelligent discussion is around that issue at the heart of the middle east ’s problems . open societies are incompatible with closed economies . a well-functioning private-sector-led private sector creates adequate jobs , and schools that educate the large and young population for today ’s inter-connected world are prerequisites of progress . the israeli-palestinian issue is crucial to all the obvious reasons .
madrid – in the united states , voters seemed tired of a steady confrontation between ceausescu and ponta , more generally than that of noisy , ugly , and treacherous burlesque that their country ’s political scene became . in his many successful years as mayor of sibiu iohannis distinguished himself from the charismatic , shrewd politicians of whom romanians are used , proving to be a sober , laconic and pragmatic administrator . this demeanor is part of what makes his victory more talkative ponta so difficult to foresee . but iohannis is is different in his political approach not only : he ’s evangelical lutheran in a largely orthodox country . vigorous religious attacks mounted against him during an campaign highlighted the salience of the establishment – though orthodox leaders who supported ponta rapidly revised their rhetoric to support tolerance and cooperation .
some of these can either be learned or cultivated , and courses that teach positive mental habits – such as appreciating things that matter or shunning dwelling on setbacks – have demonstrated measurable improvements in wellbeing . indeed , the dalai lama has recently helped launch some such courses in london , developed through happiness action , an organization that i have helped to find . entire societies can also try to improve happiness . british premier david cameron has introduced measurement of happiness into national statistics ; more recently , german chancellor angela merkel launched a program to advance citizen wellbeing . how countries are governed with tremendous consequences for happiness .
israel is but a small fraction of this total pattern ; it has a real role to go . more recently , there has been an event-driven shift toward cooperation with russia on ending syria ’s civil war following a chemical-weapons attack that left at least 1,400 people dead . all of this raises a crucial question : does the us even need an overarching design for its foreign policy ? if the result is to make its foreign policy less robust and predictable – or , worse , susceptible to misunderstanding – then certainly it does not . the new world order has given way to a order-less world in which reliability and predictability have given way to the rapid shift in focus and fickle commitments .
the 1986 financial services act put a lid on pure self-self-regulation . in the past , the finance interests opposed it vigorously , viewing it as the thin end of a dangerous wedge , though they can not have guessed just how thick that wedge eventually becomes . it is also hard to trace back to the origins of the credit explosion in the 1980 ’s and the proliferation of exotic , poorly understood financial instruments that lay in the heart of the 2007-08 crisis . the most dangerous trends , including the upsurge of global imbalances and the economy 's dramatic financial financing , speeded perilously out of the morning , accelerating dangerously from the summer of 2004 onwards . thatcher herself was not an unstoppable ast for credit , once famously said , “ i do not believe in the credit card . ”
a unilateral military strike would carry potentially dire consequences , if anything , be achieved . regrettably , given us president barack obama ’s lamentable handling of the syria crisis , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu may conclude that he has no alternative but to go it on its own . indeed , iranian hardliners may welcome a israeli strike and even seek to provoke it as a rallying means for the iranian population beyond them . there is a better way to prevent the proliferation of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction in the region : a “ wmd-free zone , ” built on a system of incentives that involve economic and technical support for countries that join , as well as security guarantees from the united nations security council ’s permanent members . at the same time , the zone should enforce the economic and political sanctions on states that choose to stay outside and , again , supported by permanent members of the security council – impose military sanctions on those that attempt to develop wmds .
cambridge – more than 130,000 people are said to have died in syria ’s civil war , and they are only a half people who have been forced to die since the end of the war . united nations reports on atrocities , internet pictures of attacks on civilians , and accounts for the suffering of refugees rend our hearts . but what is to be done – and by them ? more recently , canadian , scholar-politician michael ignatieff has urged us president barack obama to impose a no-fly zone over syria , despite the near-certainty that russia will veto the united nations security council resolution needed to legalize such a move . in ignatieff ’s view , if syrian president bashar al-assad is allowed to prevail , his forces obliterate the remaining sunni insurgent forces – at least for now ; with hatreds inflamed , blood eventually will flow again .
a raucous regional situation now appears to be joining a raucous american election season ( where no issue is ruled out in the political arena ) , the task of assembling these components will be even more difficult . it is too soon to assess the historic effect of the arab spring , but if there is one conclusion today that could draw , israel and its palestinian neighbors had little to do with them . for americans ( and for others ) who believe the arab world thinks about nothing but the palestinian cause , events this spring in north africa , the arabian peninsula , and even the levant should convince them otherwise . in the months ahead , we can expect the region ’s countries to remain focused on issues of governance and capacity , human rights building , and how to create economies that respond to their restive citizenry ’s demands for a better life . new arab leaders will struggle mightily with rising public expectations and their willingness to get behind a peace process take a backseat to such a struggle .
london – vulnerable communities are facing the brunt of climate change – from rising sea levels and extreme weather events to prolonged severe droughts and flooding . according to the world bank , without effective mitigation measures , climate change could push more than 100 million people into poverty by 2030 . to help the most vulnerable communities become more resilient to climate effects , financial institutions should support small and medium-size enterprises . in emerging economies , medium-size enterprises account for the bulk of employment as much as 45 % and up to 33 % of gdp – and these numbers are considerably higher when informal small and medium-size enterprises are included . when an sme builds on its own climate resilience , it can cascading communities around it .
cutting methane actually makes it cheaper than cutting carbon . and because methane is a much shorter-lived gas than co2 , we can avoid a limit to some of the worst possible short-term warming through its mitigation . agricultural production accounts for half of anthropogenic methane , but wastewater systems , landfills , with coal mining also generating a gas . professor claudia kemfert of the germany institute for economic research ( diw ) argues that spending $ 14 billion to cut methane in order to generate benefits – from cutting warming – between 1.4 and three times as many as one . we could also put a larger focus on cutting black carbon , considered responsible for as many as 40 % of current net warming , and one-third of arctic melting .
it has never had to deal with others as equal in contrast with the traditional european powers that did so for centuries . while the challenge for china may be more difficult to manage , it is not only difficult to confront that of american power ; it must also take into account the american ideal . in 1989 , huge numbers of chinese students took up tiananmen square to demand more rights , embracing a symbol resembling statue of liberty . today , too , it is not america ’s military power that threatens or challenges china , but rather the enduring attraction of “ the american dream . ”
but collectively , eu member states – even without the united kingdom – would constitute a power equivalent to size . by bolstering their strategic sovereignty , europe could thus make such a g3 world a reality . a stronger and more unified europe , the argument goes , could then compete with the us and china in most domains – including by “ weaponizing ” its economic resources further to its geostrategic goals . yet europe ’s leaders tempted by the prospect of the g3 world must deal with two related concerns . first , it is not clear how the eu will achieve the necessary level of integration when the bloc ’s majority of relevant decisions still require unanimity among member states .
after all , this is how the administration has handled canada and mexico . trump has temporarily exempted the two countries from tariffs , but now expects concessions from them in his administration ’s renegotiation of the north american free trade agreement . although the us has less tariff protection on the eu than europe , the gap is minor ( european unweighted customs tariffs averages 5.2 % versus 3.5 % for the us ) . both countries maintain relatively open economies with stronger protections in specific sectors . regulatory divergences are a much more significant barrier to us-european trade than us tariffs .
do i not , somehow , still have “ self-owned ” rights ? how can a commercial firm , not only deny me the rights to know my own genetic profile unless i pay their fee to a diagnostic test that may be fair enough , but also prevent any other firm from bidding to me a similar test unless such firms pay it a license fee ? proprietary claims to commercial firms over the most basic element of individual genetic identity , should not be enforceable . we need not trust in genetic determinism in the search for compelling argument .
for that reason , the world alliance ’s international secretariat against traffic in women applauded amnesty international for encouraging decriminalization . there was also opposition by some feminist organizations , which accused amnesty for defending “ the rights of pimps and johns . ” instead , they argued , we ought to “ end the demand that women pay sexual care ” – but without explaining how this should be done . in the species that reproduce sexually , sex is , for clear purposes , one of our strongest and most pervasive aspirations . humans are , in this respect , no exception .
propelled by both demand and adjustment from advanced economies , emerging-market countries won a growing share of their soaring merchandise trade ; in 2014 , they accounted for over half of global trade inflows . as the great recession hit , growth in the world ’s merchandise trade has stalled – owing primarily to anemic demand in the world ’s major economies and plummeting commodity prices . but deeper structural change is also playing a role . many firms are simplifying and shoring up their supply chains . for a wide variety of goods , automation means that production locations and outsourcing decision-making no longer depend mainly on labor costs .
nonetheless , strong bipartisan support is on the ground in the american side for maintaining military bases in afghanistan , because it is means of projecting hard power and an increasingly charged confrontation between the us and russia over ukraine has boosted that support considerably . in fact , former us secretary of state condoleezza rice explicitly linked russia ’s actions in ukraine with “ talking about the us withdrawal from afghanistan , whether or not the security situation warrants it . ” according to rice , anything less than the residual force of 10,000 american troops will send the message that the us is not serious about helping to stabilize afghanistan – a message that would embolden russian president vladimir putin to further . what she does not seem to recognize is that america ’s deteriorating ties with russia – a key conduit for american military supplies to afghanistan – could undercut its basing strategy . evidently , the us believes that a continued military presence in afghanistan is in its own interests .
in sign of what comes , poland ’s foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , told tabloid superekspres after the summit that the eu pursued “ a two-standard politics and deceptions . ” according to waszczykowski , poland not only must “ drastically reduce [ its ] level of trust in the eu , ” but must also start pursuing negative policies , “ by blocking other initiatives , or playing a very aggressive play . ” in fact , polish prime minister beata szydło had already initiated that strategy , by refusing to sign off the summit ’s official record , as if that would render poland irrelevant to the outcome . such infantile ploys have become all too characteristic of the pis government , which also refused to publish polish constitutional tribunal rulings , as if it makes them legally non-binding . the pis government has no doubt paralyzed the court , thereby undermining the rule of law in poland .
this will require massive investment in new technologies and resources , rather than a “ struggle to finish ” over middle eastern oil . important energy technologies will include conversion of coal toward liquids ( like gasoline ) , use tar sands , and the oil shale energy sector , and growth in non-fossil-fuel energy sources . indeed , there is excellent potential for cheap solar power , zero-emitting coal-based , safe , and reliable nuclear power . solar radiation equals roughly 10,000 times as many existing energy use . we tap that solar power in many fundamental ways – production of food , wind power , hydroelectric power , solar heating and solar-thermal power power , solar panels – but options for vastly increased use of inexpensive , widely available , and environmentally friendly solar power are enormous .
asia conjured up images of poverty and starvation in the 1950 ’s . there was brief political infatuation among some westerners in india ’s 1960 ’s with nehru jackets and maoist revolution , but brief . as john lennon sang sang of the university of 1968 , “ if you follow pictures of chairman mao , ai makes that with anyone anyhow to anyhow . ” asia ’s resurgence began with japan ’s economic success . in the late twentieth century , japan ’s spectacular performance not only made japan rich , but also strengthened the country ’s soft power .
but , with austerity under fire and eu countries looking to stimulate spending , the council should also consider the shape of the budget , ensuring that the mff does not impede future growth and investment . for example , the proposed budget slashes funding for cross-border infrastructure projects , including the expansion of high-speed broadband networks into rural areas and the construction of transport and energy infrastructure . but the eu can add significant value to it by coordinating transnational infrastructure projects , thereby achieving economies of scale , and avoiding duplication in national spending . europeans would directly benefit by improving internet access , lower energy costs , and more effective transportation links . likewise , to lay the foundation for future economic growth , the eu should nurture new , sustainable industries and innovative small and medium-size companies – not cut funding to important research programs like the 2020 horizon .
in the wake of the sichuan earthquake , criticism of china will be all the more subdued . in 1997 , denmark , a nation whose people are demonstrably committed to human rights , asked the united nations human rights commission in geneva to take their sights into the ccp ’s long track record of abuse . china responded by canceling a danish trade mission . france got the message , and the french soon stopped promoting human-rights resolutions directed at china . the french were then rewarded with a string of lucrative treaties in china .
the global agenda in this field determines norms and norms that shape how public and private actors promote health , prevention , health care , and care administer . it includes research initiatives and global public goods such as vaccines and emergency-preparedness programs for epidemic outbreaks . and it brings people together to work toward providing universal health coverage , and ensuring that everyone is right to health . in the sdg framework , discrete gender and health issues become intertwined because gender itself is a major driver of health outcomes . gender can influence whether one smokes tobacco , exercises regularly , or access nutritious food .
still , just the presence of a plurality of women has consequences . for example , studies by american courts of multiple judges show that male judges are more willing to hear bias cases when a single woman is on bench , and a substantially more willing one when a second woman is added . “ each of us , ” noted sandra day o’connor , america ’s first female member of the supreme court , who was renowned for not wanting to be perceived “ female ” justice , ” brings to the task , whatever is our lifetime of experience and our values . “ in other words , women bring fresh perspective ; heard clearly only when an critical mass of them is present in any single institution . consider the perspective of a woman in conflict , and we are the most vulnerable .
but choosing an action for a greater good does not absolve us from moral culpability . our hands will become dirty when we help a terrorist , or a dictator , from whom they are used . the philosopher michael walzer puts it well : “ it is easy to get one ’s hands dirty in politics . ” he immediately adds , however , that getting one ’s hands dirty in this way is “ often the right thing to do . ” finally , an adviser to authoritarian leaders can not escape this dilemma .
but in the 1991 arab spring , 800,000 yemenis were expelled because they were seen to be an domestic security threat in the run-up to the first gulf war . since then , yemeni labor has been banned from saudi arabia , and it has been forced by some 800,000 yemeni women . embittered and unemployed , young yemeni men often have become subject to another saudi policy gone awry – its propagation for sunni wahhabi islam ’s export form . with saudi arabia ’s new wahhabi madrasas popping up everywhere in yemen because of saudi financial support , it is small wonder that yemeni jihadis have grown exponentially . but yemen , too , is engaged in its own destructive policies .
independently , honjo and colleagues identified another protein that conducted a similar function . these fundamental studies have led today to the development of new , powerful immunotherapies that are effective against cancer . but we still have much to learn . for a certain cancers , immunotherapy has been revolutionary , enabling people on the verge of dying to live healthy lives with no detectable traces of the disease . yet the immunotherapy revolution continues in its infancy .
but it has followed this approach to the macro level , and for the problems elsewhere in the economy without having looked to itself . silicon valley ’s citizens must start applying their skill at innovation – and their pride in “ breaking the things ” – to themselves . the only way to evolve is by adapting to new ecological pressures , and now silicon valley – owing to a large part of its own behavior – is facing plenty of it . unless it changes , it will overrule . the good news is that , if any place proved capable of innovation , it is silicon valley .
establishing a structured , well-run goat market helps create a positive feedback loop . if farmers feel confident that their goats would not be stolen and could sell them at decent prices , they are preferable to investing in improving their manufacturing system . here , too , the platform of innovation helps . for starters , we trained farmers how to improve their soil by expanding legume crops , the residues that can be exploited as goat fodder . recognizing the benefits of such practices , farmers began to increase crop density immediately , applying manure and rotating crops and thereby increasing yields and creating more fodder for healthier goats .
in the early nineteenth century , wages stagnated for almost 50 years , before picking up again . that may have been an extreme situation in the future . but for lower-skilled workers , moving underway today could prove just as wrenching . with fears of rising inequality already mounting , governments will have to rethink policies to provide income and job-transition support to displaced workers . looking ahead , policymakers and companies should keep five imperatives .
this is largely a matter of mindset , not of means . fortunately , mindsets are beginning to shift at the 2016 au summit in kigali . by the 2016 au summit in kigali , african leaders recognized that despite the au ’s accomplishments , it remained under-resourced and inefficient , operating below potential and failing to implement many decisions . to reinvigorate the au , they tasked rwandan president paul kagame with guiding a process that all of them have been deeply involved . less than three years later , a set of reform recommendations , produced by kagame , and the pan-african committee of experts , which he appointed – through an inclusive consultative process involving african leaders and other stakeholders – are being implemented .
both countries have floating the exchange rate , meaning their central banks are reluctant to intervene in the currency market by buying and selling their reserves . more fundamentally , why do we think about reserves differently than we think about other assets on their national balance sheets ? suppose that ilan goldfajn , brazil ’s star central banker , issues the new york bond and uses the dollar ’s proceeds to enlarge the country ’s international reserves . at best , market participants applaud that decision ; at worst , they will become indifferent , because brazil ’s net debt position will not change . now suppose one argentina ’s private agricultural exporters , too , issues an international bond and uses dollars to enlarge one of their modern , highly competitive dairy plants to sell more powdered milk to asia .
in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy that transforms india into a tech powerhouse , setting the stage for an inclusive digital future . in france , the government has been investing in an extensive national digital plan , which is projected to generate 1.1 million jobs over the next 3-5 years , and is contributing $ 101 billion to gdp over the coming decade . while other countries are embracing robust digital strategies , the us is falling behind . despite having run up the internet race in the 1990s , the us is now the only major developed economy without a clear digitization plan . the consequences are already beginning to show : according to the 2016 bloomberg innovation index , the us is now the eighth most innovative country in the world , having fallen two spots since 2015 .
fortunately for some countries , innovative action to address the problem is introducing innovative measures . in georgia , for example , political parties involving no more than 30 % of each gender on their electoral lists receive a 30 % supplement from the state budget . similarly , in iran , political parties lose 50 % of their state funding if their candidate pool includes fewer than 30 % of either sex . beyond financing constraints , women face heavy social and cultural barriers to political participation . more care obligations , reinforced by public perceptions of the “ women ’s role ” severely undermine women ’s ability to run for public office , are particularly committed .
iran is , by contrast , a deeply divided society between those who want its country to be a respected member of the international community , and those for whom iran ’s international standing is better served through a nuclear-weapons program . the international sanctions that it imposed on iran would appear to aid the latter rather than the former . this might well go true if iran were a full-fledged democracy , genuinely accountable for its people ’s will . but there is scant evidence to suggest that sanctions did anything to slow iran ’s nuclear program . moreover , as is frequently the case , sanctions may have done more to decimate the middle class , further weakening the least powerful than motivating iran ’s leaders to seek a deal .
one hopes that the paris agreement is changing that . as with the information-technology revolution , advances in clean-energy technologies will require engagement in both the public and private sectors . because we do not yet know which innovations to decarbonize the economy , investment must be allocated to a wide array of choices . long-term , patient finance must also come to the task of helping companies minimize uncertainty and bridge so-called “ valley of death ” between basic exploration and commercialization . the bec argument – that the “ new model ” will form public-private partnerships between governments , research institutions , and investors “ – shines a welcome spotlight on the relationship . ”
but those challenges will not be addressed , and opportunities will not be realized unless children everywhere have the skills to which they need . for these reasons , my homeland , senegal , has long been committed to giving her children – especially girls and those from disadvantaged backgrounds – a quality education . moreover , in 2017 , we invested 25 % of our domestic budget – representing close to 7 % of gdp – on educating our children and young people . furthermore , we plan to provide up to 90 % of funding for a new program to improve senegal ’s education system , from now to 2030 . even so , senegal struggles to fulfill all of the costs of strengthening its education system .
the goal must be to foster european security integration ( a broadest sense in its own sense ) , lift europe to the forefront of global security . as member states advance this path , propelled ahead by technological and operational excellence and innovation , they will find avenues for eliminating unnecessary spending , and optimize resource use . europe ’s defense industry will be unable to make any progress without a well-functioning market – that is open , transparent , and equal opportunity among all european suppliers . advances in defense industries are leading to significant positive externalities , such as civil-military synergies and investment in research and development , that are fundamental to growth , innovation , and future competitiveness . a critical component of coordination and proper european defense and defense policy is the european defense and defense policy .
for example , china banned shark-fin soup , conventional delicacy , at official government-dinners and functions – a move that contributed to a 30 % decline in shark-fin sales from last december to april – in the us . at guangzhou ’s southern city , the centers of china ’s shark-fin trading vendors reported a 82 % decline in sales during the last two years alone . it should not be difficult to spur countries to take action to protect their shark populations in the face of a shark ’s economic value fall when the disease strikes . a study by the australian marine institute found that palau ’s shark-diving industry is worth far more than its shark-fishing industry , a study that is the highest in the world . a single reef shark that frequents major dive sites in palau is worth roughly $ 179,000 annually , or $ 1.9 million over a lifetime ; the same shark would be worth roughly $ 108 dead .
tudjman 's excuse was that croatia needed to concentrate power in order to challenge serbian aggression . the truth is that it used a negotiated hostility to slobodan milosevic to solidify personal rule and a russian style plunder of state properties by its coterie of loyalists . in order to accomplish this with the bare fuss that his muzzled the press and electronic media . despite enmity between serbia and croatia , dealing with the dictator with milosevic was simple . because both tudjman and milosevic believed in ethnically homogeneous states , they fomented forced population transfers ( ie , ethnic cleansing ) and a partition of territory between each alternative .
current proposed arrangements would allow the chinese government to veto any candidate it does not like , prompting criticism that what is on offer is an iranian-style election : “ you can vote to anyone in the choice . ” hong kong ’s government could call for changes that increase the level of openness and justice that the chief executive is elected , without abandoning its current methods in favor of universal suffrage . according to the basic law , the election committee , in any case , ought to be “ broadly representative ” – an provision the committee ’s current composition violates . its membership is elected by only 7 % of hong kong ’s voters , and its voting procedures seek to avoid nomination from any of the candidates who are able to harbor their democratic sympathies . since 1997 , 55-61 % of voters voted for democratic presidential candidates on legislative council elections .
in promoting democracy , liberals reject the argument used to these rulers that the first free election will be last , because the islamists win and establish theocratic regimes . reformers insist that vast majority support moderate solutions , or at least that radical islamist groups would have to become pragmatic in a position to compete for power and govern . that case is not yet proven . january ’s palestinian elections won a relatively moderate leader because he put forward the ruling fatah movement and islamists boycotted elections . but in gaza ’s strip local elections soon afterward , radical islamists who use terrorism won seven out of ten municipal councils .
increasingly , industries are implementing approaches that have ensured success in other sectors , such as lowering procurement costs and deploying lean principles in manufacturing . as clean-tech firms continue to scale up , additional opportunities will be available , in order to improve them . the shakeout in clean-tech sectors has been tough ; but it has also been typical of emerging technology ; and , by weeding out the weaker players , it has made the sector a more robust undertaking . this is a global segment meeting a growing global need . there is little room for doubt that the clean-tech industry can expect to have plenty of sunny days ahead in the future .
princeton – the economic gloom unveiled in 2008 led many to ask whether the apparent prosperity that preceded it was real . we know that , in countries as diverse as china , india , russia and the united states , the number of billionaires skyrocketed . more broadly , the top 1 % of the population prospered . but the gulf between rich and poor widened , at least in america , incomes in the poor and middle class stagnated ated.ampnbsp ; no wonder that many nowadays are skeptical of taxpayer-funded schemes to bail out banks , insurance companies , and even automakers .
their main goals are to allow companies and organizations to establish sustainability targets and key performance indicators ; to track , prepare , and publicize comparative data that measure their economic and esg performance ; and to integrate sustainable production and consumption practices into companies ’ business strategies and models . global awareness on the topic is on the rise . in a recent paper by mark carney , bank of england governor and president of the g20 financial stability board , and michael bloomberg , a former new york city mayor and ceo of bloomberg lille , issued an announcement on climate-related market data . given the scale of the challenge , however , it also has the key to ensuring effective coordination and harmonization of these efforts with relevant standard-setters , regulators , and professional organizations . the american securities and exchange commission on one counts on these issues as it analyzes options for responding to investor and business needs concerning esg issues .
in particular , smallholder landholders need new tools that enable them to raise productivity while establishing more sustainable methods of production . this month ’s g-20 summit and the united nations conference on sustainable development in rio de janeiro are crucial opportunities to establish a more holistic global economic recovery and sustainable development approach . pursuing a prosperous , inclusive economy must be tied to efforts to address climate change and achieve universal food security in general . but the outcomes that the world needs – feasible financing options and frameworks to underpin economic transformation , much as integrated environmental and sustainable-development governance – are impossible without political will . success at los cabos will depend on g-20 leaders ’ ability to galvanize the same level of collective , concerted action that enabled them to curb the global recession in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis .
new york – global financial markets in 2008 experienced their worst crises from the great depression of the 1930 ’s . major financial institutions went bust ; others were buying up on the cheap ; or survived only after the great bailouts , their money prices collapsed . global stock markets collapsed more than 50 % ; their interest-rate spreads skyrocketed ; the severe liquidity and credit crunch emerged ; and a number of emerging-market economies staggered to the international monetary fund for assistance . so what lies ahead in 2009 ? is the worst behind or ahead of the us ?
good news is not news ; media executives often mutter . and it takes just a minute on twitter or cables , to confirm the old adage : “ if it bleeds , it guides . ” add to that second psychological bias neuroscientists debate : because our species have evolved to fend off the danger , we have typically been more sensitive to bad news . indeed , we react more acutely to pictures from starving children than to reporting on improving nutrition levels throughout africa . and , of course , we tend to remember those horrible pictures much longer .
china ’s government has apparently begun to appreciate the limitations of cover-ups and stonewalling , and perhaps also the merits of allowing some room for free speech . that thirst for skill-biased information underscores the dramatic change that the internet has brought to china ’s political landscape . today , the government does not monopolize information , and the right to process it . insightful bloggers attract significantly more clicks than do official mouthpieces . a “ virtual civil society ” is in the making .
new york – countries often devote public funds to promoting their own goods and services exports . but devoting resources to promote imports – how china is doing with its inaugural international import expo that just opened up in shanghai – is indeed rare . the annual import expo , which is part of china ’s overall import-promotion strategy , attracts thousands of companies worldwide with the promise of huge bidding from chinese firms including state-owned companies tasked with expo a success . if the expo succeeds in raising imports , one might expect it to shrink china ’s trade surplus . but that need not be the case .
london – the historian norman stone , who died in june , always insisted that history ’s students are learning their foreign languages . language gives access to the culture of human beings and culture to its history . its history tells us how it sees itself and others . knowledge of languages should thus be an essential component of the historian ’s technical equipment . it is the key to understanding the past and the future of international relations .
while such a scenario is straightforward , reality is not . the first nagging question is this : will elections really be in place in next january ? prime minister yad allawi assures the world that there will be a thing , with president bush echoes his words . more neutral observers – and , indeed , the daily news bulletins about bombings and hostage taking - and “ insurgents " - cast doubt on that prospect . the probability that an iraqi election in november must be held is less than 50 % , and we may be certain to be free and fair elections across the country .
atlanta – since the united states marks the first anniversary of president donald trump ’s election , the question is how trump still commands attention , with russia ’s role shifting increasingly to center stage . every new revelation in the 2016 us inquiry into russian meddling is fueling the vulnerability of the american democratic process ’s sharper orientation . last week , the us congress unveiled legislation that would force facebook , google , and other social-media giants to disclose who is buying online advertising , thereby closing the loophole russia exploited during the election . but making amends through technical fixes , and public promises to make corporate citizens better , will solve only the most publicized issue . the harder challenge will be strengthening institutions critical to a functioning democracy – specifically , civics education , and local journalism .
yet , if the end gets clear , policymakers are often clueless . in america ’s presidential campaign , business protections are fashionable again . but while import restrictions can alleviate pain in some manufacturing districts , they will not prevent companies from relocating where the growth opportunities to the us are strongest . they will not protect workers from technological change ; they will not restore yesterday ’s development patterns . and they will not recreate yesterday ’s development patterns .
a move by the army officers in tripoli against qaddafi and his sons may end the conflict , with military commanders acquiring the credits – and the political capital . but four decades of military-based dictatorship may be enough to libyans , a majority of them never really benefited as their country ’s wealth or potential . when it comes to producing terrorists and undocumented immigrants – two key issues for europe – arab military dictators have an inglorious record . algeria in the 1990 ’s serves as a potent reminder of this , and western governments are unwilling to stage a vicious cycle of repressive autocrats producing violent theocrats as well as refugees to restart . getting “ stuck in transition ” is a third possible scenario , with libya remaining in a “ gray zone ” – neither fully-fledged democracy nor a “ semi-loose ” dictatorship – remains .
but , of course , if they were to be involved in a case against muslims that had to be handled in an islamic court . when a muslim and an non-muslim faced one another at a trial , the muslims were enjoying significant advantages in the first time . first , the training of judges to grant them the benefits of any doubt to the other muslim people . second , the court-staff was entirely muslim , which meant that testimony was viewed solely from a muslim perspective . third , whereas muslims could attest against anyone , christians and jews could testify only against another non-muslim .
some argue that the real point is the risk of attack and destruction , which might occur if weapons of mass destruction are deployed . they employ something like cost/benefit analysis , based on subjective sense of danger . but there is no way to make objective assessment of fear and even if possible , use cost/benefit analysis to invade another country ’s territory would wreak havoc with the global system of national sovereignty and international law . the better way to make self-defense sense is to invoke two principles , which underlie legal claims of justification in both domestic and international law . the first principle is reciprocity , which implies that if israel had the right to attack osirak reactor , then iraq had the right to bomb an israeli nuclear facility ( osirak ) at dimona .
most economies become less equitable , with widening gaps between rich and poor . and violent conflict remains widespread , with the world ’s poorest regions the most vulnerable to outbreaks . with these challenges in mind , world leaders agreed in the rio +20 summit last year to adopt the sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . the world ’s governments asked un secretary-general to coordinate preparations for those goals by 2015 to ensure the seamless transition from the un millennium development goals ( mdgs ) , expire later this year . a crucial meeting of the un general assembly will take place at the un at the end of this purpose .
today startups employs roughly 182,000 people worldwide – 50,000 more than facebook , google , and apple combined . argentine , jordanian , malaysian , or spaniard who can visualize and create prosperous global demand for a product or service – just as spain ’s amancio ortega did with zara – is just as much an entrepreneur as the next bill gates is . from lahore to lagos , mexico city of mumbai to the mumbai sea , governments are looking at their own populations as pools of talent waiting to tapped . it is time for diplomats to do the same . they should encourage and spur job creators and problem solvers , turning development assistance into investment .
although such politicians often describe themselves as “ rightist ” , their real policies , such as those of former slovak prime minister vladimir meciar , are in fact demagogic populist or authoritarian . the eu ’s situation of political right in every central european country is also influenced by experiences rooted in history and tradition . political developments in czechoslovakia during the past 20 years of communism were setting the czech republic and slovakia apart from poland and hungary . while both polish and hungarian communist parties experienced internal liberalisation , which allowed the relatively large semi-formal zones of activity outside the communist control of czechoslovakia , after the soviet-led invasion of 1968 , became the rigid neo-stalinist regime . when communist regimes collapsed in 1989 , poland ’s communist parties and hungary transformed themselves into a credible democratic-left party , one that became formidable opponents of the newly emerging political right .
the eu ’s maastricht treaty explicitly reserves this tax-and-transfer authority in member nations , a reflection of europeans ’ unwillingness to transfer funds to other countries ’ people in the way that americans are willing to do among the peoples of varying degrees in different states . the third important difference is that all us states are obliged by their constitutions , in order to balance their annual operating budgets . while the “ rainy day ” fund that accumulating in boom years is used to deal with temporary revenue shortfalls , states ’ “ general obligation ” borrowing is limited to capital projects like roads and school . even a state like california , seen by many as the poster child of fiscal profligacy , now has an annual budget deficit equal to 1 % of its gdp and the general obligation of just 4 percentage points of gdp . these limits on us state-level budget deficits are a logical implication that the american states are not able to generate money to fill fiscal gaps .
i certainly can not feel safe as an economics professor ! i have no question that sometime later this century , one can purchase pocket professors – possibly with holographic images – as easily as one can purchase the pocket of kasparov ’s chess computer today . so let ’s return to india and china . globalization did occur at a pace quickly through much of the past century , at a particularly accelerated pace during its most recent decades . yet an overwhelming body of evidence suggests that technological change was a much bigger driver of global wage patterns than trade .
specialization in every country enables people to get more of what they want , which , especially at higher levels of income , involves cleaner air and water . when trade brings down costs , it can benefit the environment simply as much as it rewards other goods . so , is trade globalization on balance better , or worse ? some empirical studies of cross-country data find net benefits on environmental degradation indicators like local sulfur-dioxide air pollution . provided that countries have efficient national governance institutions , business , and growth give them the means to clean their air .
tokyo – throughout the cold war , the term “ kremlinology ” referred to efforts to understand what took place at the commanding heights of the soviet union – indeed , beyond the entire iron curtain . kremlinologists monitored ( in whatever way possible ) who was up and who was down among the core soviet leadership . great significance was read into who signed an official paper , or who stood where atop lenin ’s tomb in red square , when revising military parades . all that was grammar-school stuff compared with efforts to decipher the regime in north korea , where the truth is far more opaque . consider what happened on december 17 .
in dire , last-ditch efforts , the imf is now inventing “ spill-over news ” for several systemically important economies , to a narrow degree , to be conducted at the margins of its ( article iv ) consultations . this initiative is destined to fail – as has the imf ’s multilateral surveillance exercise , or the g-20 peer reviews in recent history . even if massive spillovers are clearly recognized , it is hard to see how that exercise will solve a fundamental problem beyond the currency war : the major players ’ apparent unwillingness to reconcile vastly different national interest . so what should latin american economies do ? they surely have a right to defend itself , whether through foreign-exchange intervention and the consequent accumulation of reserves ( a potentially lucrative option if capital flows really are temporary ) , imposing capital controls , or other current current present-market macro-prudential policies targeting countercyclical exchange-rate smoothing .
were china to let its currency float back then , it would depreciate in value , deepening the crisis . countries were warned : avoid trade deficits and build up reserves because it was the key frontline defense . east asia ’s countries followed that advice and for good reason : they saw the consequences of insufficient reserves . east asia ’s governments knew back then that the imf ’s policies would deepen their downturns , while powerless to resist . the imf had the money it needed .
welfare-to-work programs in michigan and wisconsin have served as the federal welfare reform model under president bill clinton , with obamacare taking root in massachusetts ’ health-care system introduced under republican governor mitt romney . likewise , between 2000 and 2014 , by enacting a wide variety of energy policies – from broad climate action plans to mandated renewable-energy standards – 33 us states cut their co2 emissions , while expanding their economies . more recently , some states have introduced cap-and-trade systems to place carbon pricing on the ground , with many already on track to meet obama ’s clean-energy plan targets . half of all us states have now legalized marijuana in some form , with eight embracing full legalization . the three us states have implemented laws that offer paid family leave with a fourth on its way .
cambridge – “ i wish to be part of it – new york , new york , ” frank sinatra sang of a city that has attracted so many of the most ambitious people in the world as well , from artists and performers to businesspeople and bankers . in a sense , this does not make the issue of a difficult explanation ; metropolises like newfoundfoundland , with its multicultural populations , multinational corporations and a diverse array of talented individuals , are rife with opportunity . but the impact on large towns is run deeper than economics or even cultural power ; cities can fundamentally alter people ’s lives – and even the people themselves . in 2010 , geoffrey of the west , together with a team of researchers , discovered that several socioeconomic measures – both positive and negatively – increase with the size of the local population . in other words , larger cities , the average wage , productivity levels , the number of patents per person , crime rates , prevalence of anxiety , and the incidence of hiv .
( an eventual winner from the bid is probably required to enter into a joint-making arrangement with india , which american companies would be not going to do . ) just as if all of this were not enough to decide against america , clincher might well have been india ’s desire to avoid any further procurement controversy in an era when charges of corruption beset all parties . a decision made on technical grounds , many felt , would be easier to defend than one based on political considerations . against this are the unambiguous advantages of pleasing a major new ally and developing a pattern of bilateral military cooperation in supplying , training , and operations that have yet to evolve . at a time when america ’s nuclear-reactor purchases – made possible by the bush administration ’s historic deal negotiated by the us – were kept up by america ’s insistence on exemptions from supplier liability when the us was accident , some regard india ’s spurning of america ’s airplanes as a gratuitous rejection of the opportunity to demonstrate that friendship with india helps america , too .
as a result , big transnational institutions lobbying hard for a pan-european approach to banking supervision and regulation ( and implicitly for fiscal bailouts should that supervision and regulation fail ) . in switzerland , the banks that have required state rescues , european competition rules require divestment and downsizing . institutions such as scotland ’s royal bank of scotland , which until 2009 headed the list of world bank largest international banks , are pruned by the eu ’s directorate general to competitive status . even stronger banks are being pressed to increase their capital reserves . in most cases , this implies continuing to cut back on lending , exacerbating the impact of the financial crisis on the rest of the economy .
north korea immediately did just that , threatening to carry out an all-out “ envelopping ” strike on america ’s territory of guam . trump fired a shot back that the american military is “ locked and loaded . ” and , indeed , as this rhetorical fire exchange unfolded , the us was reportedly preparing revised military options to strike striking north koreans . more ominous , judging by confidential american intelligence news reports , north korea has achieved a capacity to miniaturize its nuclear warheads , and may have as many as as 60 bombs . the stakes are rising in kim and trump ’s game of chicken .
the first can be drawn from all this , but it can be drawn from one of the two conclusions . the first is that we all owe at least some of our successes to others , given that societies provide the public goods they provide . this calls for modesty and restraint in setting supreme wages not for moral reasons , but for the sustainability of the system . the second conclusion is that the most privileged classes , who have benefited the most from solidarity in others , notably the poor , can no longer deny the latter their contributions . but do not hold the breath waiting for them to consent .
when sweden ’s did , swedes said no . they understood that unemployment would rise if the country were setting its monetary policy by a central bank that focused single-mindedly on inflation ( and also on the lack of attention to financial stability ) . the economy would suffer because the economic model underlying the eurozone was predicated on power relationships that disadvantaged workers would have . and , confident enough , what we see right now , 16 years after the eurozone institutionalized those relationships , is the antithesis of democracy : many of europe ’s leaders want to see the end of prime minister alexis tsipras ’s leftist government . after all , it is extraordinarily inconvenient to have greece ’s government , which is so opposed to the kinds of policies that have done as a great deal to increase inequality in so many advanced countries , and that is so committed to curbing the unbridled power of wealth .
durham – this year , islamist politics faced massive setbacks in two of the major predominantly muslim countries : egypt and turkey . but it is too soon to write off political islam as a capable participant – even a leading force – in a pluralist democracy . just one year after the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi became egypt ’s first elected president , millions of egyptians took to the streets , triggering a military coup that ousted him . morsi ’s political incompetence and his lack of vision in the face of the economic collapse would have been enough to diminish support for his government . but his rejection of pluralism and the persecution of islamic dictatorship , exemplified by his efforts to centralize power in egypt ’s grip , and to place himself beyond a review of egypt ’s judiciary , has proved his undoing .
on may 19 , a group of korean scientists published in a journal science on the results of research , which for the first time isolated human embryonic stem cell lines , explicitly tailored to match the dna of male and female patients of different ages . in fact , next day , british researchers at newcastle university announced that they had successfully produced a cloned human embryo using donated eggs and genes from stem-cell research . both breakthroughs constitute a stunning advance in stem cell research . embryonic stem cells are pluripotent , which means that they have the skills to develop in whatever kinds of human tissues are needed . this carries great promise , especially for spinal cord injuries and diseases .
this includes ramping up the tradable-permit agenda by reducing the threshold beyond which companies must pay , eliminating exemptions from employee permits or industries . such actions would not only boost fiscal sustainability – additional revenues could total the 2 % of gdp – but also improve the effectiveness of overall resource allocation . finally , in the medium term , china can lower government spending ( in the medium term ) by streamlining its vast administrative hierarchy . in recent decades , many of america ’s largest global firms have been using new technologies to reduce worker layers , from top executives to factory workers , thereby reducing cost and boosting efficiency in the long run . on the other hand , china ’s government retained the same six-layer administrative structure – starting with the central government and moving down through provinces , prefectures , counties , townships , and villages – since the people ’s founding 70 years ago .
indeed , the risks of a world without nuclear weapons – or only a minimal number – are enormous . nuclear deterrence – a threat to kill hundreds of thousands or millions of people – is a concept that fits no traditional morals . yet it has worked , prevention of catastrophic wars , while making people more civilized and cautious . when one pole of nuclear deterrence weakened , due to russia ’s political decline in the 1990s , nato , the defense union of democratic and peaceful states , committed aggression against yugoslavia . now that it has renewed its capability , such an move would be unthinkable .
as tragedy unfolded , however , researchers gained a greater grasp of the disease . prions seem to defy every conventional wisdom , survive pressure-cooking , irradiation , and even incineration at 340 ° c for four hours – treatments routinely and reliably used to deactivate every known viruses and bacteria . moreover , prions lack their self-borne genes . the prion gene is provided by the infected individual in whom it resides in an innocuous state . infectious prion then hijacks of the body machinery , reprogramming it into a willing executioner of prion replication .
performing arts advocates in europeans points to us where music directors of even major orchestras are now expected to participate fully in fundraising activity and be activism in local communities in orchestras behalf . equally , they worry , will happen in europe . some conductors , not wanting the tin cup to wave their batons , have dismissed important posts in the us for that reason , feeling that it will interfere with their artistic art . daniel barenboim is rumored to have left the chicago symphony orchestra partly for opposing fundraising demands . but us experience shows that gaining artistic leaders like orchestra music directors to participate in fundraising must not be bad for the artistic side of the job .
the us , for its part , should avoid forswear that option , but we should consider others , not least because the un security council – whose backing will be political , if not legally critical – may never support invasion . curiously , it would uphold authority by the council , means that the council failed to gain its approval . the council is more likely to accept the possibility of mounting punitive air strikes agenda – going well beyond what was done in 1998 – on suspected wmd sites , presidential compounds , republicans guard , and other targets in armed-force areas . this would hurt and weaken saddam , establishing unquestioned message that defiance by the un carries severe sanctions . the council could also declare that any fresh aggression , or any use , threat or transfer of wmd , would trigger saddam ’s removal and his persecution as the international criminal like slobodan milosevic .
soon thereafter , the inspectors returned to tarmiya . this time they knew precisely what huge magnets were for : produce weapons grade nuclear materials . this time , dr. ahmed , the iraqi counterpart , realized that the game was up , and that they were only now only up to that . some us inspectors who knew it well did indeed have dined on collegial terms during their visits to vienna . that he would lie to them so brazenly were incomprehensible to his friends on the inspection team .
but china ’s dizzying rise has also dispelled three leading myths about the impact of economic growth . the first is that the growth rate reduces inequality , and increases happiness . in 1955 , the economist simon kuznets hypothesized that income inequality would increase sharply , and then decline – in an inverted “ u ” pattern , or bell – as countries underwent economic development . given the pace of china ’s economic growth from 1978 , its experience refutes this claim more powerfully than any other . after all , after all , china is now one of the highest unequal countries in the world .
pakistan thus took one more step toward developing a political system based on the rule of law . democracy is always intended , of course , rather than periodically holding free and fair elections to a state . it must also mean developing robust rule of law , granting people enforceable property rights , and granting citizens institutional means to settle their disputes . pakistan held free and fair elections in 2002 and 2007 , and is gearing itself to hold another at the end of 2012 or early 2013 . had the supreme tribunal not removed gilani , it would be the first prime minister to finish its full tenure .
by contrast , the cuban government continues its detention of prisoners of conscience and criminalize demands on a society-wide dialogue . this year , the peoples of europe marks the 20th anniversary of the fall of the iron curtain that once divided europe in two . that is 20 years after this epochal event that the iron curtain remains around cuba makes this anniversary poignant . of course , tourists crowds out cuba ’s beaches are unaware of that iron curtain . but , regardless of this ignorance and its economic interests , the eu should insist on the relaxation of political prisoners and the use of all international institutions to put pressure on cuba ’s government to respect cuba ’s human and civil rights .
brigadier general kyaw hsan , military representative , recently told un special envoy ibrahim gambari that street marchers were “ bogus monks . ” but we are genuine , and thousands of us – from rangoon , mandalay , pegu , arakan , magwe , and sagus – have demonstrated for peace . some have said that the uprising in burma is over . that is what the junta wants . but we believe that the protests represent the beginning of the end of military rule in our country .
but plato would probably have marmarveled at most the moral progress of the wider world . after all , he believed that being a “ philosopher ” meant assuming the responsibility of the moral reformer . yet , while morality was always at the center of his thinking , many moral truths that we now take for granted never occurred to him . for example , though plato opposed enslavement of greeks , he – such as each other ancient greek – condoned the enslavement of “ barbarians ” ( non-greeks ) . nowadays , by contrast , even the emphatically non-philosophical person – say , plato ’s “ media escort ” – could easily explain why slavery is wrong : “ one person is a person . ”
but it is at least as important to address localized social divisions that have emerged as a result of the conflict , particularly within hubs of violence . here , local and international civil-society organizations , together with regional and municipal governments , have a vital role to play , with colombia ’s history of overcoming similar challenges to its own , should prove helpful . such efforts must be supported by progress in another area : rural development , which is the only economic matter that addresses the peace treaty ( farc ) . this is hardly surprising : after all , the massive inequities that characterize the rural colombia ( farc ) gave the first time to the farc and concentrated in such areas . ( dismantling the narco-trafficking activities in which farc has engaged may also be viewed as an economic issue , given the need to create alternative opportunities in rural areas ; first and foremost , a security issue . )
glattbrug , switzerland – rising youth unemployment , especially in europe , is creating headlines worldwide . roughly 5.5 million europeans under the age of 25 are unemployed , and roughly 25 million are unemployed . more than 7.5 million people aged 15-24 are “ neets ” – not in employment , education , or training . youth unemployment rates above 25 % in 13 european countries , amounting to almost 30 % in italy , portugal , ireland , bulgaria , cyprus , latvia , hungary and slovakia , surpassing 55 % in greece , and spain . likewise , over 30 % of jobseekers under 25 have been unemployed for more than 12 months , and their chances in finding employment remain low .
as a result , foreign producers are charged with `` unfair '' competition far more easily than domestic producers do . indeed , if domestic trade standards were applied internationally , perhaps a majority of firms within america would be guilty of dumping . yet america 's supreme court has set standards so high for american firms to find guilty of predation that few cases are successfully prosecuted domestically . nor are trade negotiators discussing the elimination of that double standard . so developing countries worry that efforts to introduce `` competition '' in trade negotiations within trade negotiations will only make life even more difficult .
for emerging economies , this would mean cured of dollarization only to catch an even worse case of libraization . if it does , then libra will have complicated these countries ’ monetary and exchange-rate policies and helped trigger an era of sluggish growth and financial instability . facebook is betting that libra will trigger a taurus market . but libra ’s advantages appear as slippery as pisces . the libra project is dangerous as leo , which will require government regulation to keep it from becoming a cancer .
there is no reason to believe that inclusiveness affects sustainability in growth patterns only in the developing world , though specific dynamics depend on a number of drivers . for example , rising inequality is less likely to remain politically and socially disruptive in the high-growth environment ( think of 5-7 % annual growth rates ) than at any low - or no-growth environment , where incomes and opportunities for a subset of the population are either stagnant or falling . the latter dynamic is playing out in france , with the “ yellow vest ” protests of the past month . the immediate cause of the protests has been the new fuel tax . but the cost of this added has not been all that large ( around $ 0.30 per gallon ) , but fuel prices in france were already among the highest in europe ( roughly $ 7 per gallon , including existing taxes ) .
to divide a people to conquer them is an immoral strategy endured throughout recorded history . from alexander stalin to stalin the cruel , variants of that strategy were used to keep nations in thrall to the will of emperor . we are now seeing this strategy once again , as president vladimir putin stealthily seeks to restore kremlin supremacy over lands treated as “ lost ” when the ussr imploded in 1991 . in doing so overplaying his hand in ukraine ’s recent election , putin apparently revealed himself to the world his neo-imperialist designs . in the wake of the euphoric mass protests in kyiv , russia ’s president since said that he can work with whatever the government of ukraine chooses .
in any case , a proactive ingredient of the trump doctrine burden-sharing . skidelsky interprets this narrowly , which focused on the need for america ’s nato allies to increase their defense spending . what she fails to acknowledge is that the us is also forcing the rest of the world to share the burden of its unsustainable structural savings deficit . the us is running consistently both fiscal deficits – with total spending ( of which the us defense comprised 14.8 % in 2017 ) significantly exceeding its income – plus a current-account deficit . if those twin deficits are running at a trend rate of more than 3 % of gdp per annum , net us debt to the outside world – currently at 40 % of gdp – will double in less than 24 years .
consider , for example , how a recent innovation is threatening export-oriented industrialization to fuel the evolution of a wide range of countries across the world in recent decades . by employing abundant , low-cost labor-intensive manufacturing to scale , developing countries were able to increase their share of their global manufacturing activities , create jobs , attract investment , and , to some extent , kick-starting a broader industrialization process . but , for firms who took advantage of opportunities to reduce costs by shifting manufacturing to the developing world , there has always been trade-offs : offshore production implies limited capacity to respond quickly to shifts in consumer demand . now , technology may offer another possibility , too . by investing in “ additive ” manufacturing , “ robots , ” and other non-human tools , firms might move their production sites closer to their final markets .
even wives of men watching the game at home have other issues to deal with . joyce , for example , has a husband , a diehard manchester united fan . every season , she breaks at least one piece of furniture when his team loses . couches are stained by beer and kicked as his favorite teams cheers . she has transformed her furniture at least twice since she married out four years ago , and her husband is still a young boy .
in fact , does any monster not have yet been viewed as a potential conveyor of revolutionary thought ? an idea that murderous monster may symbolize a protester or outcast , and therefore deserve sympathy , originated in those of the french philosophers gilles deleuze and pierre-félix guattari . challenging rené girard ’s explanation of the origins of irrational violence and hatred against the other – ethnic or religious minorities who have been demonized and victimized – deleuze and guattari extended the notion of otherness to vampire . this set the stage for a paradigmatic shift in understanding of deadly monsters as another . increasingly , such protagonists have become an emphasis on academic attention , cultural criticism , and popular culture on the other .
copenhagen – discussions of global warming are marked by an increasing desire to stamp out “ impure ” thinking , to point to the value of the democratic debate . but closing discussion simply means disappearance of reason from public policies . in march , al gore ’s science adviser and prominent climate scientist , jim hansen , proclaimed that when it comes to addressing global warming , it would not work the “ democratic process ” that is being achieved . though science has demonstrated that co2 from fossil fuels is heating up the planet , policymakers are reluctant to follow on with advice to stop constructing coal-fired power plants . hansen argues that “ the first action people should take is to use the democratic process .
according to the inter-parliamentary union ( ipu ) , this election pushed south korea from 101st to 62nd place globally with respect to the share of female mps , well ahead of 121st-ranked japan . the rise of female mps led not only to a increase in female cabinet members , but also to a wide variety of policies and institutional improvements aimed specifically at women . and while south korea has slipped to 80th place in the ipu ’s most recent rankings , the fall reflects subsequent growth in the share of female legislators in other countries . for women , the main reason for the rise came from establishing a quota system according to which south korea ’s political parties should ensure that 30 % of their candidates are female . campaign-finance law was revised to provide additional government funding to parties that are meeting the quota and cut rates for parties that are not .
for bingham , the law must be open and -- insofar as possible -- intelligible , clear , and predictable . everyone should be governed by law , insulated from the personal discretion of those in power , and legal disputes should be resolved with no prohibitive costs or inordinate delay . equality should be put before the law , coupled with an adequate protection of basic human rights . moreover , state power should be exercised reasonably , in a good faith , as well as for the purposes it conferred , with independent courts and justice reviews of legislation ensuring that the government does not exceed the limits of authority . the courts and other official adjudicative bodies should provide fair processes .
it is the extreme right , which has benefited most from centrists ’ failure . in finland , the heretofore unknown true finn party ( eln ) capitalized on resentment around eurozone bailouts in order to finish a close third in april ’s general election . in the netherlands , geert wilders ’ freedom party wields sufficient power to play kingmaker ; without its support , a minority liberal government would collapse . in france , a national front that finished second in a 2002 presidential election was revitalized beneath marine le pen . nor is the backlash confined to the eurozone ’s members .
in the euro , the eu is paying turkey , while seehofer pays orbán by tolerating policies that no german politician should . the four factor , of course , is german business interests . german companies make many of the money that was called visegrád four – the czech republic , hungary , poland , and slovakia – which together amounts to germany ’s largest trade partner . but here the hungarian tail is wagging german . on its own , hungary is germany ’s 14th-largest trade partner with respect to both exports and imports .
brussels – the new controversy has emerged between the european union and several of its main trading partners since the eu decided to include its co2 emission-control scheme all flights and its territory , including transcontinental flights . airlines will need to acquire emission permits for their flights ’ co2 emissions . china and the united states are outraged . chinese airlines have delayed orders to purchase european aircraft , as the result of the european union ’s emissions . the ceos of airbus and major european airlines have urged european leaders to step in .
when we in our government looked at london ’s risks as a financial center from outside europe , we concluded that there was no compelling case to say that it might damage us . but we were never in any doubt that being out of europe altogether was an entirely different matter . yes , special arrangements can be negotiated ; but each must be negotiated individually . and for the record , norway is a significant net contributor to the eu budget – the price of its negotiation despite being a member . i doubt that other european countries would permit britain to operate like certain offshore centre at european borders , free to european responsibilities , but participate fully within its opportunities .
it has also highlighted the rapid pace of epidemiological transitions in middle-income countries , as well as the persistence of communicable , maternal , newborn , and nutritional disorders in sub-saharan africa . but the gbd could do more to inform policy debates , spurring action to improve health if it has been able to offer more detailed data breakdowns . policymakers are accountable , first and foremost for their constituents , whose unique needs they must meet . the estimates of the local disease burden will be essential to fighting diseases like ebola , checking the rising death toll of non-communicable diseases across middle-income countries , and meeting the sustainable development goals , related to maternal and child health in sub-saharan africa . to help decision-makers make better better use of their data , the institute for health metrics and evaluation that i head is shaping geospatial maps for diseases that are burdened with groundbreaking solutions .
according to a study by goldman sachs , countries like greece , portugal , and spain would have to become 20-30 % cheaper , with german prices having to rise by 20 % , relative to the eurozone average . to be sure , if germany were to leave the common currency to a common currency , the road back to competitiveness would be easier for southern countries , given that rump europe would be undergoing a devaluation ; but a crisis country ’s fundamental problem would remain as long as other competitive countries remain in the eurozone . spain , for example , would still have to cut its prices by 22-24 % relative to the new eurozone average . from this perspective , crisis countries would not be spared painful retrenchment as long as they had remained in a monetary union comprising competitive countries . the only way to avoid that would come from leaving the euro and devalue their new currencies .
one way to strengthen india 's disaster-response capabilities would be to create the marine equivalent of our territorial military , training chosen fisherfolk in how to engage search-and-rescue operations . such training , coupled with students ’ affinity for their fellow fishermen and their expertise in braving turbulent seas , would make the deployment of an extremely effective reserve force when disaster strikes . another issue that risks being overlooked by the focus on urgent and immediate financial relief is coastal communities ’ long-term economic needs . to be sure , immediate relief is vitally important : ockhi has completely shut down everyday activities in some coastal areas and caused severe economic ( not to mention emotional distress ) distress in the region ’s poor fisheries communities . but perhaps it is time to consider whether it is fair to condemn those communities to longstanding fishing dependence .
ramallah – the united states should stop pressuring the palestinian-israeli peace process to restart . doing so may be the best way to achieve peace – a paradox that reflects the enormous gap between the peace process and achieving genuine peace . make no mistake : this has not to be called a call to arms or an appeal for a violent uprising . peace between the conflicting east of the mediterranean and the west of the jordan river can and will be achieved through negotiations . but if a party is more interested in a process than a requirement to be peace , something must be wrong .
both world wars ( and cold war ) shape european integration as a peace-loving project , the defense of the west ’s fundamental values , and shared economic prosperity . but the collapse of communism in 1989 , and the chance to overcome the continent ’s historical divisions , now required a redefinition of the european project . the maastricht treaties ( 1992 ) and amsterdam ( 1997 ) created a new organizational architecture for the eu , laying the foundations for political institutions equal to european economic might . the nice treaty ( 2000 ) was a result of rather poor compromise . declarations by german chancellor angela merkel , whose country assumed the rotating six-month presidency of the european union at the start of 2007 , have been unambiguous : the period of reflection , ratified by the european commission in 2005 , ended .
whenever i arrive in moscow , i am impressed by its new shops and buildings , and i am all too tainted . but another key aspect of yeltsin ’s era – its rollicking debates – has fallen silent . part of the explanation for this is increased official control , part of the decline in public interests , and partly is that today russia ’s problems simply appear less urgent . after the government seized control over independent tv networks , ntv , and tv6 , russia ’s media have become vastly duller . the latest fad is for civil servants to sue libel newspapers , demanding more than $ 1 million .
true , the united states is not denmark ; it is not a problem . but it ’s not wrong to ask what makes scandinavian welfare economies so prosperous , and what americans can learn from them . the short-term answer is that scandinavian countries provide work to their people that pays a decent enough wage in order to sustain healthy and happy lives . one needs no economist to understand that a country ’s wealth depends on a huge share of the population that is doing productive work in high-value jobs . according to oecd countries ’ oecd employment rankings , the top 7 countries worldwide have welfare economies .
berkeley – on my desk right now , us reporter timothy noah ’s new book the great divergence : america ’s rising inequality crisis and what we can do about this and milton and rose director friedman ’s classic free to choose : personal declarations . considering them together , my overwhelming thought is that friedmans would find their task to justify and advocate small government libertarianism much harder today than in 1979 . then , friedman made three powerful factual claims on how the rest of the world works – claims that appeared true or might say true , or at least certainly true when , at that time , but that now looks quite plain false . their case for small-government libertarianism rested largely on those claims , and has now mostly crumbled because the world , in particular , it turned out , disagreed with them about how this works . the first claim was that macroeconomic distress is the government , not by an unstable private market or , rather , that the form of macroeconomic regulation required to produce economic stability is straightforward , and easy .
with that commitment now under way , the g20 should follow through , setting a clear timeframe for ending fossil-fuel subsidies , including full transparency regarding such spending from 2017 onward , and a ban on investment and production subsidy by 2018 . second , the g20 needs to commit to fighting tax evasion and unraveling the murky systems of tax havens and shell companies ( brought earlier this year by the panama papers ) , which used to pump money out of africa . according to the african high level panel on illicit flows , chaired by former south african president thabo mbeki , africa loses more than $ 50 billion each year , from illicit financial outflows . g20 members , by the international monetary fund , should strengthen requirements on financial disclosure , prevent shell ’s construction efforts from building up money laundering , and establish corporate-tax registries . the g20 and the oecd have already outlined tax-avoidance measures , such as base erosion and profit shifting .
three of ukraine ’s nuclear-energy units currently operate beyond their design lifetime , with nine others set to reach their intended lifetime ending within the next five years . most immediately , unit two in south ukraine is expected to reach that point in less than three weeks , meaning that snriu must now decide whether to grant that unit a 20-year lifetime extension . snriu will make this critical decision without key medical and environmental information that the reactor poses to ukraine and its neighbors . while this contravenes ukraine ’s responsibility as a signatory to the espoo convention , to conduct a national environmental impact assessment ( not to mention missed an opportunity to reflect potential alternatives to continue the reactor ’s operations ) , no such analysis is expected to take place . in the last month , campaign groups in neighboring countries wrote to their representatives at the ebrd , requesting that the bank suspend its support of revitalizing ukraine ’s nuclear plants until a cross-border assessment is implemented .
curitiba , brazil , has introduced the new model of urban food production . and oslo has created a climate budget that is intended to guide financial decision-making . at the business level , more than 700 companies with total market capitalization at more than $ 16 trillion have made far-reaching climate obligations , in accordance with the us business coalition . and , according to this view , 289 investors , holding nearly $ 30 trillion in assets , have signed on to the climate 100 + , a five-year initiative to engage the world ’s largest corporate greenhouse-gas emitters to improve climate change governance , limit emissions and bolster climate-related financing disclosures . as a result , global issuance of green bond could reach $ 100 trillion this year .
but this was no recipe for restoring stability and growth ; it was not a recipe for stability . to succeed in restoring a strong growth path , east asians will need to deliver more justice than individual human rights violations . as proponents of asian values argued , all human rights – civil and political alike – were needed to strengthen their human rights , as well as social and economic policies . if not , advocates of democracy and human rights will face a backlash . already , some indonesians are nostalgic for suharto ’s new order .
by contrast , the virtuous chinese who save a large share of their incomes castigated western economists for their inability to understand that their duty to humanity was to spend . a keynesian theoretical perspective of a debt-fueled economy was the redefinition of uncertainty as a risk . this was a key achievement in mathematical economics , but only to protect against uncertainty was the core of the theoretical point of economics . while guard against insecurity has traditionally been moral , hedging against risk represents a purely technical question . the main uncertainty in life – one ’s immortal soul destination – nudges one toward morality .
having ruled out a grand coalition , with either anti-establishment five star movement or former prime minister silvio berlusconi ’s center-right party , bersani will depend upon senators ’ willingness to support specific measures . but that approach is inefficient and unstable , and it will also be difficult to do . as a result , italy – and the european union – is headed toward the type of political and financial turmoil that followed greece ’s general election last may , with a similar failure to produce a parliamentary majority forcing yet another election the following month . cyprus ’s refugee crisis – which threatens to trigger a country ’s banking system to collapse and force cyprus out of the eurozone – could make that situation even more difficult to manage . italy and greece have plenty in common , beginning with institutional malaise .
for example , in the 1980s , the american auto industry entered such agreements with foreign car , microchip , steel , lumber , and machine-tool manufacturers . indeed , some conditions that it imposed then have prohibited from the world trade organization . yet , just a few years ago , america ’s auto industry was pushed to the requirement within the trade deal that it granted a minimum market share of american exports to south korea . trump is likely to dust off such tools , and to develop them further . if trump wants to avoid production shifting overseas and encourage investment from abroad , us firms might soon soon see pressure to agree “ voluntarily ” to outsourcing limits and localization requirements .
and the us per capita emissions are higher than in any other major country by a wide margin . the paris accord does not victimize the us ; in contrast , the america has a world-beating responsibility to get its house in order . judging from the world resources institute data , the us accounted for an astounding 26.6 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions from 1850 to 2013 . today , america ’s population is just 4.4 % of the world ’s . in short , it is america where per capita emissions have always been a few times the world average , owes the world ’s climate justice , not the other way around .
and that volatility is the alternative reason the casino metaphor applies : china ’s stock market can rise or fall by double digits without triggering a wider economic crash – at least so far . for example , china ’s gdp growth was unaffected ( in fact , the economy was growing at close to 10 % ) when the stock market lost half its value between 2001 and 2005 – or , for that matter , when the market then recovered ( only to fall dramatically in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis ) . ever since , china ’s stock-market has been a global laggard – that is , until the last year it became the world ’s best performing performance at the same time , rising to more than 150 % . and yet the roller-coaster pattern continues : the 8.5 % plunge came in when the market re-opened on monday that has followed its largest two-day rise since 2008 . that rise was preceded by the loss of almost one-third of market value from mid-june to early july .
again , talk turned to macron . i tried to explain this , as his trademark phrase , en même temps ( simultaneously ) , which tends to be heard here as an expression of american-style pragmatism , may be one of the most visible signs of his doctrinal proximity to the french protestant philosopher paul ricœur . far from reflecting careful deliberation over ambiguous choices , it is simultaneously “ by the credo of someone suspended in fear and trembling ahead of unsolvable and terrifying mystery of double nature – physical and spiritual , mortal and resurrected – of the tormented body of christ . but very soon , we arrive at the issue of anti-semitism in america . on the one hand , one hand , there is to be found that horde of nativists , white supremacists , and neo-confederates who descended on charlottesville , virginia , in august to the breaking of some black and jewish head .
santiago – now that populists are coming to power with the west , conflict over intellectual ownership of their approach is brewing . writers like john judis argue that nineteenth-century american voters invented political populism with their anti-elitist attitude and inflammatory rhetoric . argentines who provided the world über-populist juan domingo perón , or brazilians who brought us getúlio vargas could beg for the various reasons . yet there can be no disagreement that latin americans were the longest and best practitioners of economic populism . in the twentieth century , perón and vargas , plus alan garcía in per“ latin america ” ( at least during his first term ) , daniel ortega in nicaragua and salvador allende in chile , and many others , engaged in trade protectionism , ran large budget deficits , overheated their economies , allowed for inflation to soar , and , eventually , suffered currency crises .
what is remarkable is that it has lasted so long . ” but it was a recent statement to congress by us secretary of defense robert gates to be especially shocking for israelis . it expressed understanding for iran ’s desire to acquire nuclear weapons because , it was said , iranians are surrounded by nuclear powers like pakistan , india , russia , israel , and israel . israel is bound to fight against this emerging new american doctrine that equates it with iran or even with india and pakistan for that matter . political contexts matter , israelis will argue .
abidjan – on december 2 , côte d’ivoire ’s independent electoral commission ( cei ) declared the opposition leader , alassane ouattara , the winner of the country ’s november presidential election , with 54.1 % of gdp . the incumbent , laurent gbagbo , gained 45.9 % , and is the vote by the united states . the united nations , the european union , canada , and united nations secretary-general all congratulated ouattara to call on gbagbo to respect the human will . one day after the result was announced , the country ’s constitutional council , led by gbagbo ’s close ally , paul yao dre , annulled results from seven departments in the north , declaring gbagbo the winner of the vote with 51 % . the decision , reached less than 24 hours , left many ivorians flabbergasted .
in contrast to last year , when the lunar home for the lunar new year celebration was hampered by freak storms , this year has left millions of migrant workers back to their rural homes . many will stay there because the global economic downturn hit china hard , costing them their jobs . littered with a host of extremely sensitive anniversaries , 2009 could prove even more dramatic , unpredictable than 2008 . approaching , this point not only is the march anniversary of last year ’s disturbances in tibet , but also the 50th anniversary of the tibetan unrest of 1959 , which led to the dalai lama ’s exile and its supporters . since the riots last spring , china ’s government has taken a number of proactive measures , even accepting the “ serf liberation day , ” in order to defend its record in tibet of the last 50 years , with continued talks with representatives of the dalai lama .
addressing the deficit required difficult choices – from reforming the welfare system and raising the national retirement age to controlling public-sector pay . but i have always believed that a country can not make itself richer by writing checks to itself . we need responsible choices to ensure that it can live within our means – and that is as i am determined to deliver . a government that lives within its means is a necessary condition to ensure the economy for the long term – but it is not sufficient . success also requires bold steps to tear down trade and open its economy into investment from fast-growing countries like china and india .
indeed , the recent boom in some parts of the developing world shows precisely that . second , while push the technological frontier is a critical component of growth in industrial countries , what matters for developing countries is transforming production and export structure , particularly by shifting resources to higher-productivity activities . the key to achieving this is the capacity to diversify domestic production , by generating new activities , strengthening intra-country economic linkages , and establishing new domestic technological capabilities . building up the industrial and modern service sectors is critical to successful diversification . conversely , de-industrialization and the concentrated concentration of growth of informal service activities is a proven recipe for failure , as demonstrated by the sad experiences of most developing countries in recent decades .
today , few know where the term “ globalization ” originated . the oxford english dictionary gives it as the earliest reference in its current usage as an academic article from 1972 . earlier but in rather different sense , the word was used . it was , for example , the diplomatic term conveying the link between disparate policy areas ( in bargaining simultaneously on matters of financial and security ) . the oed etymology ignores the non-english origins of the term , which can be found with the inventive linguistic terminology of continental european student radicalism .
without his decisiveness , backed by a highly credible show of military force and skillful diplomacy , the iraqi military programs now would not be subject to scrutiny more intense than that applied to any other would-be proliferator in today 's world . war 's credible threat was essential to achieving such an extraordinary feat . but precisely because it is so extraordinary to see how implementing those threats by initiating a war can make whatever sense . if inspections were exposed in iraq as having lied , and cheated that would be an acknowledgement of the inspections effectiveness , scarcely a justification for military reprisals . the best " serious consequences , " by which the un security council warned , should iraq fail to fulfill its obligations would be an even more intense efforts to destroy its illicit weapons through continuous inspections of the country 's offensive military capabilities : inspectors , not invaders .
though their vision of " information security ' might legitimize authoritarian governments ' censorship , and thus are unacceptable to democratic governments , it may be possible to identify and target behaviors that are illegal everywhere . limiting any intrusions would be impossible , but there could be one starting point with cyber crime and cyber terrorism . major states would have an interest in curbing damaging behavior by agreeing to cooperate on the preponderance of and controls . of course , historical analogies are imperfect . clearly , cyber technology is very different from nuclear technology , mainly because non-governmental actors can take advantage of it much more readily .
most of the debt owed within the state system , for example , is state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to state-owned banks – and the government could simply write off bad debts and recapitalize its banks , finance surgery with either borrowed or printed money . alternatively , the banks could perpetually roll over existing debt , forever extending new loans to service old debts . of course , that would generate squandered investments . indeed , with banks not imposing tough budget constraints to financially unsustainable enterprises and , with the planning system incapable of imposing alternative effective discipline , china already awash with third-tier apartment blocks , which would never be occupied and with massive overcapacity in heavy industries . but , as some chinese policymakers respond , all of the growth process involve wasting : nineteenth-century railway booms in britain and america created enormous excess overcapacity and investor losses , even as they spurred economic transformation .
furthermore , namibia 's government wisely understood that plentiful natural resources can easily become a curse , enriching a few at the expense of many . the authorities know that unless namibia ’s natural wealth is invested in infrastructure and its people ’s productive capacities , resource depletion would leave the country poorer , not wealthier . they , too , know that it would be irresponsible not to garner for the country ’s resource most possible – and to re-think investment laws and revisiting mining contracts to ensure that it is the case . more important , transparency is crucial to this process . as president hage geingob told us president , the press often says things that it has no such thing .
it is not inconceivable that this type of cooperative approach could extend beyond which to include other neighbors around the levant . the good news is that cyprus ’s newly elected president , nicos anastasiades , may be open to such an agenda . naturally , much will depend , on how politically , in the current turmoil surrounding the bailout package is . anastasiades , a pro-european dimokratikós sinaymós ( democratic rally ) , won 57 % of the popular vote on a platform that emphasized economic recovery , and this will naturally become his top priority . nevertheless , a cautious look beyond the current turbulence – and into anastasiades ’ history – provides grounds for optimism .
yet the commission ’s chief executive is being challenged to be europe ’s dynamic public face . the commission ’s own internal culture of cautiousness , and red tape , is a constraint that nobody in brussels is much happy to talk about . nor is this kind of structure conducive to political coups de theâter , and most of the commission ’s work is the relentless grind of eu regulation and renewed regulation . but the bottom line is that , at a time when everyone is asked , “ what ’s europe doing ? ” the commission ’s responses seem inadequate . for reasons now obscure in nature , there is the unwritten rule that commission presidents need to be drawn from past or current prime ministers .
but it is not obvious that the uk provides such security , particularly now that it is on a journey to exit the eu ’s own single market and customs union . independence would allow scotland to develop policies that are aligned with other successful small-scale economies – not least by keeping eu membership . as scotland confronts the strategic challenges of brexit , it would also have an opportunity to develop policies that better fit its own . britain chose to leave the eu because it had an outsized opinion of itself . but it will soon have to follow the small-country model , such as switzerland or norway .
second , with china so influential a driver of worldwide demand ( both directly and indirectly through important network effects ) , the outlook for the world ’s second-largest economy has a disproportionately impact on global corporate-income projections . and , because china ’s excessive domestic credit growth and shadow-banking system are attracting heightened attention , many companies are becoming anxious . third , while companies recognize that innovation is the key comparative advantage for the global economy in today ’s globalized economy , their increasingly winner-take-all nature is humbled . today , successful innovations are far less about financing , and much more about finding the “ killer app . ” as a result , many companies , less convinced that “ normal ” innovations yields large payoffs , end up investing less in aggregate than they did before .
stockholm – it was one year since the failed coup in turkey , and questions about the country ’s future remain abound . last year ’s attempted coup last year was nothing short of dramatic if not dramatic . mutinous f-16 fighter jets bombed the turkish parliament , with 249 people losing their lives . however , the putschists failed to detain president recep tayyip erdoğan , who then mobilized his own supporters , sealed off the coup ’s fate . unless the coup had been stymied within a first-48 hours period , turkey probably would have fallen into a devastating and violent civil war , with consequences extending well beyond its borders .
seoul – once again , tensions are mounting across asia over north korea ’s missile program . unlike its previous “ surprise ” missile launches , north korea ’s government this time announced international agencies in advance to launch a “ satellite ” sometime between april 4 and may 8 . the question for the world now is not whether the north korean regime will launch its missile , but what is happening afterward . already , the united states , japan , and south korea have publicly condemned the launch as a provocative “ act ” and a violation by united nations security council resolutions 1718 , adopted in october 2006 , five days after north korea conducted a nuclear test . but , instead of hot rhetoric , what is needed today is cool-headed assessments of the military implications of the launch of its missile .
and it has just held the first round of a presidential election that meets europe ’s high standards of freedom and fairness . the eu deserves some kind of credit for this outcome . it has been more than a decade since the eu launched its eastern partnership , which established a more reliable framework for cooperation with armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova , and ukraine . that initiative is worth recalling , in part , a response to the russian invasion of georgia earlier this summer , when the kremlin was trying to dismember the eu by recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia as independent states . in the event , not even russia ’s closest allies would agree to recognize those occupied territories or legitimize their own invasion .
a child ’s political steps are no longer enough ; the eu is not the right thing to be enough . without a renewed vision of europe and an effective crisis-dealing approach , the continent ’s new ( and old ) nationalists will remain on the rise to strength , jeopardizing the entire project of peaceful integration based on the rule of law . the brexit referendum will point the way , both for the uk and the eu as a whole . it will either follow the sighs of relief ( as i hope ) , or the cataclysm which rocks the eu toward its core and brings catastrophe to the uk . but , nonetheless , the british will decide , europe ’s multiple crises must be resolved .
chicago – now that the dust has been settled over the selection of the international monetary fund ’s managing director , the imf can return to its core management business crises . christine lagarde , a competent and well-considered technocrat , will have her hands full in three important challenges . the first , and probably simplest , challenge is to restore the imf ’s public image . while the criminal case against dominique strauss-kahn on sexual-assault charges now seems highly uncertain , the ensuing press focus on the imf suggests an uncontrolled international bureaucracy with unlimited expense accounts , dominated by males , with little sense of restraint . fortunately , the truth is more prosaic .
the increase of the monetary base , however , is only temporary ; when bonds have been redeemed , it reverts to its initial level . this eventual need to reduce the monetary base is the implicit assertion of central bank assets ; the increase is thus rightly considered a liability for its balance sheet . under a money-financed fiscal stimulus but the central bank never has to reverse the increase in the monetary base . because holders of the distributed money have no say on the monetary base , the increase to the monetary base should be viewed not as a liability , but as a result of the central bank ’s net worth increases . in other words , helicopter money is not an interest-free credit to the government ; it is a gift .
her party accused serra orchestrating that the assam was launched , and , in a vengeance , her party – the liberal front – threw its backing behind ciro gomes . with sarney of the house , lula reigned supreme on the polls , reaching 43 % in mid-may . after that , in early july , lula soared to 28 % , within striking distances from lula , down to 33 % , down from the country ’s last month . gomes used the tv time to his three-party labor alliance at the end of june to the great effect , but most credit his rise to the polls at the excellent performance of his second wife , a popular actress patricia pillar that is recovering from breast cancer . brazil ’s severe summer market jitters , during which the country ’s risk-index suddenly topped nigeria ’s and short term credit for international trade dried up , began to change the face of the election .
claremont , california – even though a rapid escalation of violence in hong kong looks terrifying enough , things may be about to get far worse . the communiqué of the recently concluded fourth plenum of the 19th central committee of the communist party of china ( cpc ) indicates that chinese president xi jinping is planning to tighten his grip on former british colony on any cost . he should prepare to rack a formidable bill . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us may well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at an time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
these failings partly reflect enduring governance vulnerabilities , despite important political reforms , in particular the 2011 constitutional changes , which shifted competences from the monarch to parliament , and legal reforms , such as aligning legislation with the european union and the international human rights standards , as well as progress on family law and gender equality . moreover , regional tensions – including escalating political instability in algeria and western sahara ’s thorny issue – have hampered integration in the maghreb , an absolute imperative for unlocking prosperity in north africa . and yet , despite the challenges it faces , morocco has shown strong leadership on some of today ’s most pressing issues . it has been a vocal champion of anti-extremism initiatives , including responsible religious education , far beyond its own borders . it has become a global green-energy leader , committed in 2015 to increasing its share of renewable electricity generation to 52 % by 2030 – one of the most ambitious targets in the world .
to use eurobonds as mechanism for eliminating the large sovereign-debt overhangs jeopardizes the longer-term objective of eliminating moral hazard : it offers absolution precisely on the 60 % – of-gdp margin where countries will have the most difficulty resisting temptation . after all , there is little reason to believe that the fiscal compact , or to proposed “ debt brakes , ” will succeed where the maastricht criteria and the sgp ’s failure . rules need a credible enforcement mechanism . misplaced hope is that the enforcement problem can be solved by enshrining member states ’ fiscal compact ’s constitutions might build on a misunderstanding of the american system . to be sure , america ’s federal government never bailed out a state , with 49 of them ( all but vermont ) holding laws or constitutional provisions that limit deficit spending .
but , since an agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights ( trips ) entered into force in 1995 , every member of the world trade organization had to recognize one another ’s pharmaceutical patents . for indian drug makers , production generic versions of patented drugs would require licenses , and such licenses rarely be granted . nonetheless , following amendments to the indian patents act , india still has some safeguards to avoid the type of excesses that major pharmaceutical firms routinely get away with in the us and europe . india abides by the stricter definition of what constitutes an invention that impedes “ evergreening ” : the us patent ’s process of extending the patent ’s life by adopting secondary patents for marginal improvements to the former drug . according to section 3 ( d ) of the indian patents act , “ simply discovery of a new form … assets or … use a known substance ” or the mere recourse of any known process , or can not be allowed to patent unless it “ results in a new product , ” or employs at least one new , reac
foreign actors who criticize brazil ’s exploitation of rainforest – from european governments to pope francis to brazil – advocate biodiversity only so that they can exploit it in the future . with its characteristic misogyny , bolsonaro recently declared , “ brazil is like virgin that every foreign pervert wants . ” yet bolsonaro has no appetite to keep amazon chaste ; he just wants to be among those who use it . his promotion of rainforest development , and the attacks on environmental regulation , has led , for example , to widespread agribusiness , particularly cattle ranching , and illegal logging . according to data by brazil ’s national institute for space research , deforestation in brazil ’s part of the amazon , on average , increased by 88 % year on year on year on year .
kim seems perfectly willing to subject the north korean people to privations of every kind to remain in power . of course , there are notable differences in north korea and iran . most obvious , iran ’s nuclear program has failed to take off , while north korea – which , in contrast to iran , withdrew from the non-proliferation treaty – has already estimated 60 nuclear warheads and , it seems , makes progress toward a nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching the american mainland . in short : the all-out military conflict with north korea would entail immediate global risks . trump may have begun to recognize that increasing pressure on north korea does not preclude sitting down to negotiations with kim .
a third argument against putting anti-manipulation provisions in the tpp is that they would imperil america ’s capacity to carry out monetary stimulus . but this reflects a thorough misunderstanding of the issue . a well-designed currency chapter in the tpp would not impede america ’s monetary independence . conventional monetary policy operates through changes in short-term interest rates involving a central bank purchasing power and sell short-term government debt . none of the foreign-exchange market interventions – the purchase and selling foreign currency – are involved .
so it is fun to boast that one ’s own brand of knowledge , whether experimental physical physics , mathematics , or cosmology , is unnecessary . but the joke would not work if not simultaneously another widely shared assumption that scientific understanding had some value independent of any practical uses . after all , it would not be funny if a charity devoted to famine relief celebrated their own ineffectiveness ; the practical value in this scenario would be paramount , because it would be the only real reason for a charity to exist . so , while potential usefulness is the cause of the reason that governments devote so much money to scientific research , people really expect more from science than it has done . on this view , the science also has a rather different , higher purpose : understanding the natural world .
the un ’s position has not helped either . last year , us president barack obama ’s administration asked congress $ 1.8 billion in emergency finance to help prepare and respond to zika ’s threat . but abortion politics intervened , because republican legislators , leading congress to be hearing the zika outbreak , made funding conditional on anti-abortion policies in recipient countries . the problems with the dominant approach to containing the zika virus – namely , that it saddles women with too little responsibility , while giving them too little power – are not lost on everyone . indeed , last year , the un refugee agency and world health organization emphasized the need to place human rights at the heart of a response to the zika outbreak .
if they become consolidated democracies , hoping , would-be entrepreneurs could stop worrying so much about official corruption . and launching european loans would make it much easier to look for one ’s fortune back home . such an approach requires communicated public and public and public attention to the people of tunisia , egypt , and other arab countries . it would reverse a pattern whereby europe relies on repressive regimes to supply it with oil and gas and guard its borders against migrants . at long last , these countries ’ demographic wealth would come with a view to meeting their own development needs .
what is advantageous today may be problematic tomorrow : europe and japan will face major problems once their demographics tilt toward the elderly , eliminate the temporary demographic advantage they have relative to today ’s us . but this is not what ails their economies . edmund phelps of columbia university argue that these slow-growing countries lack the “ dynamism ” that it defines as a mix of entrepreneurial spirit and a financial institution to channel it . both the spirit and the necessary financial institutions must now be present to enable “ creative destruction ” – the force joseph schumpeter argued sixty years ago was the engine of capitalist prosperity – to be unleashed . but is that an exact description of slow-growing countries ?
in argentina , one bumbling president succeeds the next . institutions are torn down ; property rights are called into question ; and a random and ever-more corrupt redistribution effort is underway . peru and venezuela hardly look better ; brazil may soon follow the same course . lula ’s popularity ignacia da silva and his team , leading opinion polls in the run-up to brazil ’s presidential election , serves as a warning that much of the latin american public is prepared to reject traditional governments . lula and his party are outside the mainstream of economic thought and policies that capital has already begun to flee – even though elections are months to come .
in 2040 , in the iea ’s optimistic scenario , solar power in sub-saharan africa would produce 14kwh per person each year , less than what is needed to keep a single two-watt permanently lit . the iea also estimates that renewable power would still cost more , on average , than any other source – oil , gas , nuclear , coal , or hydro , even a carbon tax . few in the rich world would switch to renewables without heavy subsidies , and certainly no one cuts their connectivity to the mostly fossil-fuel-powered grid , which provides stable power on cloudy days and night ( the next form of subsidy ) . yet western activists seem convinced that the world ’s worst-off people should be satisfied by inadequate and irregular electricity supplies . in its recent africa energy outlook , the iea estimates that africa ’s energy consumption will grow by 80 % by 2040 ; but , with the continent ’s population almost doubling , less energy per person would still be available .
a lot of talk of a crash in china ’s housing market was heard in 2011 and early 2012 , and was chain-reaction by defaults on underground credit networks and local-government finance platforms . in 2013 , the talk turned to the perils of a resurgent housing bubble and the implosion of the shadow banking system – one of which consists largely of wealth-management firms and trust companies . according to market sources , total assets managed by the shadow banking system have grown exponentially since 2009 , totaling ¥ 14 trillion , or one-third of gdp , in the third quarter of 2012 . with relatively sluggish growth , corporate profitability , upon which the returns of shadow banking systems ’ asset pools are based , is low and falling . where , then , will the high returns of the financial-services system provided by the shadow banking system come from ?
european industries are afflicted by similar problems , and they are suffering from the eu . refining and petrochemical sector supplies the eu with much of its fuel . downstream sectors , together with fuels distribution , contribute a total of around € 240 billion ( $ 31.7 million ) annually to treasury coffers . by any reckoning , this is an important sector that should not suffer from overregulation . but , while the sector is facing the threat posed by bloated gas prices from around the world , its concerns closer to home are the abundance of eu and national energy regulation .
the answer , it seems , is that its centrist chancellor , angela merkel , has pushed trump back against . yet draining poison from europe will necessitate much more than scolding america , praying for trump ’s premature departure . in fact , some eu leaders ’ approaches to issues like immigration threatens to produce the systemic problems that endure until trump returned to a life of golf courses and bankruptcy courts . sensible european leaders can be forgiven for sending the uk politely on its path , so that it can turn their attention from threats to their long-term cohesion and fundamental values . at the same time , the eu has always prided itself on being a community of values that protects minorities and welcomed the poor and downtrodden .
acknowledging such thoroughhappening fallibility may seem paralyzing – and the contemporary political mood certainly seems to reflect this . but recognizing fallibility can actually be empowering , because it implies the potential to improve in both economics and politics . if the world becomes too complicated and unpredictable to either markets or governments to achieve social objectives , then new checks and balances systems must be designed in ways that political decision-making may constrain economic incentives , and vice versa . if a world characterized by ambiguity and unpredictability , then pre-crisis economic theories – rational expectations , an efficient market , and a degree of neutrality – must be revised . furthermore , policymakers must rethink much of the ideological super-structure erected on market fundamentalist assumptions .
likewise , it would be difficult – but not impossible – to reduce the incentives created by almost all countries ’ tax regimes , to leverage corporate leverage . governments must also work to reduce existing debt – together with deficient global demand in which they contribute . simply put , this is not feasible for highly leveraged governments to grow debt . nor can austerity itself suffice , because it would require countries to implement these massive fiscal adjustments – as 5 % of gdp – in spain ’s case , that citizens are likely to resist , as greeks have . a more efficient approach would employ a broader array of instruments , including debt restructuring .
and others are more tangible , like giving away personal data in exchange for access to services . third , inequitable pay and incentive structures are bad for business , and bad business is not the most important one . much has been written about the extraordinary bonuses paid to investment bankers during the height of the financial crisis . yet silicon valley ’s ceos are no robin hoods , either . tech entrepreneurs might tell their investors that their leaders want a world change ; but many are intoxicated with the idea that the world becomes better when selling their business to the behest bidder .
for europe , that is a necessary principle . moreover , he never wavered on critical questions of legal and practical gender equality , or about expressing his dismay at niqarabs ’ growing number and hijabs are now seen in london ’s streets – which prevent people from telling , from speaking face to face . moreover , khan ’s position in favor of gay marriage earned him a fatwa for apostasy from the fearsome head imam of the bradford mosque . a few might say that no less could be expected of a labour leader with churchill ’s bright future . one must , however , continue to follow through , and it must be recognized that khan did not bring in these issues to facile communitarianism common on the other side of the channel .
in europe , regulatory changes like the second payments service directive ( sd2 ) have been crucial in opening up the banking system , and regulators like the united kingdom ’s financial conduct authority , for some time running regulators sandboxes to smooth the way for new entrants , by helping structure themselves to comply with norms . psd2 , often described as “ open banking , ” calls for banks to offer their customer figures to non-bank payment providers and account services . aggregators can then present customers with an integrated perspective on their financing . perhaps the time to gauge the financial-stability risks of the open banking sector was in consultation time before the fsb passed . even now , the fsb ’s list of contributors to the fsb work shows that , as well as key regulators in europe and north america , the key regulators have not been involved .
some ideas are worse than wrong : they are castrating because , in an attempt to interpret the world , they tend to emphasize secondary issues – say , access to raw material – and blinds societies into the more promising opportunities that might lie elsewhere . consider finland , the nordic country , endowed with many trees for its tiny population . a classical economist would argue that , given this , finland should export timber , which finland has done the job on the ground . a traditional development economist , by contrast , would argue that it should not export wood ; instead , it should add value by transforming timber into paper or furniture – something that finland , too , does . but all wood-related products represent barely 20 % of finland ’s exports .
we need to access to around 50 grams per kilowatt-hour to zero by 2050 , rather than 500 grams per kilowatt-hour . we must get into zero-emission vehicles , rather than to more efficient gas-burning vehicles , particularly given that the number of vehicles around the world could easily double by mid-century . deep decarbonization requires not natural gas and efficient fuel-powered vehicles , but zero-carbon electricity and electric cars charged with zero-carbon electricity grids . this more profound transformation , unlike those of low-hanging fruit eyed policymakers today , offers the only path to climate safety ( that is , staying well below 2ºc ) . by pursuing coal to gas or more efficient gas-burning vehicles , we risk injecting ourselves into a high-carbon trap .
rather than turning agents into change , they often inhibit change . ( indeed , the great economic debate in south korea nowadays concerns whether the chaebols stifling innovation by preventing startup competitors from challenging them . ) the productive transformational transformation that developing country needs is much easier in achieving with the support they support rather than obstruction , of their conglomerates . but securing such support calls for policies that nudge ( or even shove ) conglomerates toward export-led industries that can grow beyond domestic market limits – industries in which competition encourages the discipline they lack due to dominate local markets . to succeed , conglomerates also need government backing and acceptance of society .
working groups may be created to try a shared narrative . negotiations , too , would have to cover contemporary issues , including the tour d’horizon of current hotspots . what is iran doing in yemen , lebanon , iraq , and syria in particular ? how will it define its interests in these countries ? does it actually view itself as many sunni arabs as the protector of shia arabs ?
domestically , china will be the first country that due to its sheer size and the required gdp growth is forced to pursue a “ green ” economy . otherwise , china would quickly reach its growth limits to its own “ limits , ” with disastrous ecological and , as a result , political consequences . because china would be the leading market for the future , it will be decisive in determining not just what we produce and consume , but how . consider moving from traditional automobile to electric transport , the us , and even the us . despite european illusions of the contrary , this will be decided in china , rather than in the western world .
first , the ecb ’s renewed bond purchases need to articulate a clear intention to reduce sovereign interest rates towards sustainable levels , which are at least 200 basis points below their july averages . a high-level german diplomat reportedly dismissed spain ’s 6.5-7 % interest rate recently , on the grounds that spain borrowed at almost identical rates in the 1990 ’s . but that statement has strangely ignored spain ’s higher pre-euro rate of inflation – thus confusing real and nominal rates – and more rapid gdp growth . for countries following agreed reform programs , the ecb should commit itself to bringing interest rates down to levels compatible with projected inflation and growth rates , and announce how long ( say , nine months ) that this will continue . a sporadic program without such announced goals is unlikely to work , and could even be counterproductive , because private investors may well demand even higher returns , because an increasing ecb share of gdp would be deemed senior , augmenting their risk .
but that rule succumbed , rather quickly , to violent money-demand shocks , though friedman ’s general argument – that a credible commitment to low inflation requires the promotion of rules above discretion – remains very influential . inflation targeting was best known as the rule that instructed central bank governors to set – trying their best to achieve it – a target range for the annual rate of change of the consumer price index ( cpi ) . close cousins included targeting the price level instead of an inflation rate , and targeting core inflation ( cpi minus volatile food and energy prices ) . there were also proponents of flexible inflation-targeting targeting , whose view was fine to put some weight on short-term real gdp growth to the point that it has long been a clear longer-term target for cpi inflation . but some felt that if the definition had been stretched far too far , it would lose its relevance .
firms in advanced economies are now cutting their jobs , owing to inadequate end-demand , which has led to excess capacity , and to uncertainty about future demand . but cutting jobs weakens final demand further , because it cuts labor income and raises inequality . because a firm ’s labor costs are someone else ’s labor income and demands , what is individually rational for one firm is destructive in the aggregate . the consequence is that free markets are not generating enough final demand . in the us , for example , slashing labor costs has sharply reduced the share of labor income in gdp .
nor do import tariffs help those left unemployed by blockbuster video bankruptcy , border books , compusa , circuit town , payless , or virgin megastores . meanwhile , employment at amazon has grown at an average rate of 47 % in the past year , to 341,000 people . but with amazon employment concentrated in california , texas , and washington , the geography of these jobs is very different from that of these it substitutes . as with the geographic relocation of american manufacturing jobs , the taa is not a solution to this sort of ailment . after all , whereas taa targets individuals directly impacted by foreign competition , much of the competition faced by local economies is coming from abroad , and many of those who are missing are not in industries directly affected by outside competition , but in the surrounding economy .
yanukovych stands for a truly oligarchic state of kind that putin defeated at home , and yanukovych accused yushchenko of having sold ukrainian firms to russian corporations . president putin ’s behavior is probably best explained by his dislike of democracy . moreover , if ukraine ’s president becomes an international pariah , he could turn just to russia , as is the case with president aleksandr lukashenko in belarus . after this spectacular russian failure , however , putin ’s “ managed democracy ” seems anachronistic and faces the threat of real democracy in his neighbor , extending to russia . for the first time in the past , ukrainians have dumped the little-brother complex into the russian overboard .
of course , agricultural development may have severe economy-wide pitfalls to navigate carefully . for example , as technology-driven productivity gains reduce the number of workers needed on farms , strategies to boost employment in other segments of value chains , and manage migration into cities become even more fundamental . with africa ’s rural population already largely underemployed , there is no time to waste when implementing such strategies is crucial . fortunately , africa ’s large population of increasingly well-educated young people , which largely care about backbreaking subsistence farming work , fits well with filling the higher value-added jobs emerging in the agricultural sector and beyond . another potential pitfall in agricultural development is environmental damage , involving land degradation , soil nutrient mining , excessive water use , and water pollution , as well as more basic resources for food development .
it almost certainly will not have . for many in the agreement ’s critics , particularly those in the environmental movement , those compromises have made the lima agreement an excessively bottom-up “ bottom-up ” deal . countries have too much latitude to make whatever commitments they want , relatively unconstrained by a common set of “ top-down ” regulations imposed by the agreement . such critics worry that it will push harder to persuade countries to cut emissions further when they become apparent that their collective efforts are insufficient , and they may even allow some countries to take advantage of irregular accounting methods . but this overlooks the lima agreement ’s greatest achievement : it ends the world ’s longstanding division into only two kinds of countries , developed and developing .
her refusal to strike out on her own is probably the main reason that she is continuing to lead various opinion polls . nevertheless , recent opinion polls reveal the overwhelming majority of voters who mistrust the incumbent government and the ruling people ’s party . indeed , ahn cheol-soo , a successful entrepreneur turned pro-reform professor at seoul national university and chief backer of the city ’s new mayor , has now rocked south korean politics by dropping wide hints that he might well become a presidential candidate . ahn , in turn , has already become a lightning rod , for all but a country ’s anti-park and anti-president lee myun-piñforce , attracting young people just as much as she does . ahn ’s most obvious merits are his personal histories of overcoming severe challenges and his modest demeanor .
dhaka – we humans are not only sharing the planet with a host of other species , including plants , animals , and even microbes ; we are also dependent on them for our survival . can we specify the economic value of protecting the natural world ? some people balk at the idea of putting the price tag on biodiversity , viewing its own protection as an obvious imperative . but they would undoubtedly agree that preventing human death and suffering while providing food , water , and education to all is vitally important . the reality is that simply insufficient resources can not be managed .
in many emerging markets and developing countries alike , widespread infrastructure gaps persist , notably in power and transportation . and elsewhere in the region – the small pacific islands ( tpp ) – vulnerability to the climate effect is mounting . this shifting landscape calls for bold action on a few fronts . while the reaction will certainly be needed to tailored each country ’s particular circumstances , some recommendations may have helped the majority : · because inflation remains low across much of the region , monetary policy should remain supportive of the growth of case downside risks materialize .
it wants to remain asia ’s sole country with the permanent seat – a stance that places it at odds with india . if the brics countries are to jell as a group in international relations , they must agree on what they believe to be attainable political and economic objectives . for starters , they are generally unified in their frustration with – but not in their proposed response to – the dollar ’s status as the world ’s reserve currency . true , the most important bilateral relationship each brics country has been with the united states . the brics concept represents , first and foremost , its members ’ desire to make the global order more plural .
and , third , the “ deconstructionism ” of the “ post-nietzschult ” emerged . by historicizing the “ will to the truth ” ( michel foucault ) , putting the truth “ in quotation marks ” ( jacques derrida ) separating the sign from its own “ merized ” ( louis dimon ) , and miring the obvious in the miasma of charts and graphs ( jean-claude lévi-strauss ) , or tying it up in borromean knots ( jacques lacan ) , they probably brought us to lose touch with a simple , robust , and irreversible aspect of the truth . i then focused on the responsibilities of the internet and the gafa ( google , apple , facebook , and amazon ) for the following sequence of events : first , an almost infinite amount of speech is set free by digital democracy . web then becomes the crowd , a free-for-all where everyone shows up armed with one or his personal views , convictions ,
solna , sweden – elite sports and doping have long been deeply interlinked . but a damning report by the world anti-doping agency ( wada ) to the russia far-reaching state-sponsored doping program , released shortly before the summer olympic games in rio de janeiro in rio de janeiro , brought this to the forefront of public consciousness . we should take that as an opportunity to redouble our efforts to end this deeply unhealthy practice – and to save elite sports . reaching an elite level in sports requires enormous amounts of hard work , dedication , and attention . by definition , few succeed ; but those who may enjoy great personal and financial rewards .
berlin – with mosul reembracing in northern iraq , the islamic state ( isis ) might soon be a thing of the past . yet defeating isis and the demise of its self-proclaimed iraqi-syrian caliphate will not bring peace to the middle east or even end the syrian tragedy . rather , it is likely to open a new chapter in the region ’s bloody and chaotic history – one no less dangerous than previous chapters since the fall of the ottoman empire in the late world war i. in the late 1970s , the ottoman empire has not been allowed to continue to unfold . the continuation of this violent pattern seems almost certain , because the region remains unable to resolve internal conflicts on its own or create anything like a resilient framework for the peace process . instead , it remains trapped somewhere between the nineteenth and twentieth centuries , and the us remains stuck in the middle east .
even rapid responses are all the more effective if key networks and systems – particularly electricity grids – are resilient . why do we tend to underinvest in our economies ’ resilience ? one argument here is that dismissal looks like wasting in conventional times , with cost-benefit calculations ruling out higher levels of investment . that appears clearly flawed : numerous expert estimates indicate that built-in redundancy pays off unless one assigns unrealistically low probabilities to disruptive events . this leads to a second and more plausible explanation , one that involves both psychological and behavioral behavior .
developing countries , meanwhile , are moving in the opposite direction . in october , the people ’s bank of china responded to twin threats of inflation and asset bubbles , raising its one-year deposit and lending rates by 25 basis points , to 2.5 % , and 5.56 % , respectively – the initial increase since 2007 . in the west , concerns about the impact on chinese growth triggered a fearful sell-off in markets . in the right place , the reserve bank of india raised its benchmark short-term interest rate by 25 basis points , to 6.25 % , to fight inflation , and the central bank of china now indicates that it might raise interest rates further . in brazil , interest rates remain near 11 % , and they have been expected to increase .
bigger firms are more able to pool their resources for research and development , key in terms of china ’s aspirations to ascenp the value ladder . less fragmented industries also lobby better . traditionally , contract producers in china are diffuse and fiercely competitive . they have little if any say over domestic and international regulations . producers in jiangsu , for example , have been forced to adapt constantly to fickle product-safety and environmental standards in export markets .
no question , the country would be better off by a more flexible exchange rate that eliminated one-way bets for speculators , acting as a shock absorber . however , the literature in the us on “ exit strategy ” – about how to replace a currency peg with more flexible exchange rates – makes it clear that the moment when china could navigate this transition smoothly has passed . countries might exit a pegged rate smoothly only when confidence is in the economy , encouraging the belief that the more flexible exchange rate may appreciate just as well as weakening it . this may have been true of china once ; it is no matter that it is no longer true today . this puts chinese policymakers in the position of an irish tourist who questions directions to dublin and is told “ well , sir if you were you , i would n’t be starting from here . ”
the legislation was intended not to ban derivatives , but to bar implicit government guarantees subsidized by taxpayers ( recall the $ 180 billion aig bailout ? ) that is not a natural or inevitable by-product of lending . there are many ways that large banks ’ excesses were curbing . an intense version of what volcker rule calls ( designed to force government-insured banks to return to their core lending missions ) could work . yet a new round of effort would remiss american governments to leave things as they do . the senate bill ’s provision of derivatives is a good litmus test : the obama administration and the fed , in opposing such restrictions , clearly lined up the side of large banks .
if finalized , the imf program could trigger further assistance packages by the world bank and other international donors . if the aid arrives , egypt could start to address certain of its financing problems , but it still needs a long-term strategy to stimulate sustainable growth . egypt ’s economy faces continued downside risks , owing to capital flight , mounting inflation , unemployment , and populist policies . even with the availability of external financing , egyptian leaders must look for ways to engage with the private sector to revive the country ’s economy . unfortunately , the latest political incident involving the democracy-promotion activities of american ngos has cooled bilateral relations , threatening $ 1.3 trillion in military assistance that egypt receives annually from the united states .
cafeteria ( now more inviting and more frequented with the advent of free food ) or the halls of plug & play startup accelerator , proximity matters . being physically present at work means direct contact with other sharp and creative minds . and the advantages of human contact and interaction are why salespeople still call on customers instead of using skype , and why meetup ( which supports face-to-face meetings ’ organizers ; i am on a company ’s boards ) changes in ways that twitter and facebook rarely do in the past . of course , those favored work at home cite not only the costs and time of commuting , but also the proliferation of meetings – far too much culture , perhaps – and the steady flood of communication that simply interrupts their work rather than enhancing it . interestingly , i heard of that point at a wpp stream “ unconference ” in phuket , thailand , where a few hundred people flew thousands of miles to meet to confront share ideas and strengthen working relationships .
and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to the us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
quality of talent , infrastructure , costs of energy , and speed toward markets are assuming more weight in such decisions . in the near future , 3d printing could further reduce the need for ship goods across long distances . indeed , if trade in global goods peaked in relative terms relative to global gdp , it will be harder for poorer countries in africa , latin america , and asia to develop by becoming the world ’s next workshops . but globalization alone is not in retreat . while global merchandise trade has stalled and cross-border financial flows have plummeted sharply since 2007 , the flows of digital information have surged : cross-border bandwidth has grown 45-fold over the last decade ; circulating ideas , intellectual content and innovation worldwide .
like xi in davos in 2017 , china is committed “ to an increasingly open global economy . ” xi and his circle are obviously not about to want to dismantle the global trading system . but in other respects , globalization with chinese characteristics will diverge from globalization as we now know it . compare this to standard post-world war ii practice , with china relies more on bilateral and regional trade deals , and less on multilateral negotiating rounds to follow . in 2002 , the us signed framework convention on comprehensive economic cooperation with the association of southeast asia nations ( asean ) ( apec ) in 2002 .
part of singh ’s problem is that decisions that hurt voters ( higher diesel prices , less subsidized cooking-accelerator cylinders ) have immediate effects , while the advantages of foreign investment , for example , tend to be apparent . all politicians in democracies think in a short and medium term ; few have the time horizons that extend beyond next elections . with his 20-year track record of accomplishment to show the public , singh has a better case than most to trust voters when he says he is acting in their long-term interest . within singh ’s congress party , pressure will mount to match economic-reform initiatives with “ pro-poor ” programs . the congress can rightly take credit for the most far-reaching program , mahatma gandhi ’s rural employment guarantee scheme , which assures one member in every poor rural family 100 days per year of paid jobs .
in fact , banks ’ immediate appetite is to adjust to new demands for capital and restore their off-balance-sheet balance sheets to financial health , implying that they will use the ecb ’s money in a way that enables them to meet this objective most effectively . so , if they use the currency to continue financing the private sector , for example , they would ensure that loans go to creditworthy customers . that means that , like the lending provided by italy and spain over the past few months , the vast majority of new cash will be lent locally to safe households and large established firms . doing so will allow bank markets to continue functioning , but it is unlikely to inject the type of stimulus required by european economies now . the alternative is sarkozy and banque de france : purchases by european banks of their countries ’ government bonds .
but symbolic measures , while important , remain insufficient to bring genuine progress . turkey ’s government must demonstrate its commitment to ensuring that its laws and institutions effectively protect all of its citizens ’ human rights . doing so would improve its standing in europe and beyond . turkey has an important role to play in its region , and the world – one that has been undermined by its continuing denial of the armenian genocide . its disingenuous approach to genocide is inconsistent with its efforts to cultivate its reputation as a sincere , reliable partner .
fdi must also be promoted separately from domestic investment and exports . moreover , as a result , foreign investors are reluctant to deal with diplomats or ciworkers . they are keen to talk to private-sector specialists who understand their companies ’ technical and financial needs or sectors ’ . yet , except in costa africa ’s foreign investment promotion agency , cinde modeled after the ida-ireland crisis , none of latin american fdi promotion agencies has succeeded in adopting best practices . many are encouraging both foreign - and domestic investment , despite the failures of such institutional arrangements in the past .
with the paris climate agreement one year old , the transformation of global fossil fuels is little more time around . companies with large portfolios of fossil-fuel companies like coal will soon face severe uncertainty , involving stranded assets , leaving investors able to change their risks assessments accordingly . large mining companies can prepare for this shift by shifting from fossil fuels to other materials such as iron ore , copper , bauxite , cobalt , rare earth elements , and lithium levels and mineral fertilizers to be required in huge amounts to fulfill sdgs ’ targets for global hunger eradication . phasing out coal during times of latent overproduction may even profit from the world . third , the world requires better means of assessing the ecological hazards of mining .
he also obtained the first x-ray patterns of partially oriented samples of dna . max perutz , a chemistry graduate from vienna , arrived in cambridge in 1935 to work as a graduate student with bernal . the following year , he received excellent hemoglobin crystals , and soon produced the best x-ray diffraction patterns to date . but the observable diffraction pattern – the individual reflections ’ expedities and positions – represents just half of the data needed to de-emphasize the structure of diffracting object . in mathematics , this gives amplitude , but not phases – i.e. , stages in the oscillatory motion – without which the atomic positions could not be fixed .
endgame to define the final shape of the european union is underway . it began by the publication of the praesidium of the convention on the future of europe of the draft , 16 articles of " treaty " aimed at establishing a constitution to europe . the text mostly replicates the structure of the convention ’s chairman valery giscard d'estaing 's `` skeleton '' constitution , presented last november and conclusions reached by the convention 's working groups . the key word here lies mostly in economics .
spurred by population growth and urbanization , demand outstripping supply . in africa , where an infrastructure-investment gap totals $ 68-108 billion a year , firms are paying more in business . in nigeria , more than three-quarters of firms experience electrical outages , costing them more than 15 % of annual sales , on average . similarly , while all companies need data for investment and operational decision-making , official statistics in emerging markets do n’t always sound , and tend to skewed by policy agendas . in pakistan , for example , a 2008 census scheduled was delayed nine years , beset by challenges when eventually doing so took place .
the rbc media editorial team suffered similar fate in 2016 . likewise , closure spared leading regional outlets such as siberian broadcastertv-2 or kaliningrad ’s top independent weekly newspaper , novye kolesa . each of these outlets has distinguished its coverage of sensitive stories – from conflict in ukraine to high-level corruption . today , russia has fewer press freedom and more journalists , media workers , and bloggers behind bars than at any time since the soviet union ’s collapse in 1991 . in crimea and chechnya , even the most basic media protections are non-existent .
today , countries , citizens , and a growing number of enterprises around the world finally take action . earlier this month , thousands gathered for the un climate change conference in bonn , germany , to ratchet up global aspirations in the struggle against climate change . following the successful paris climate agreement two years ago , expectations for continued progress have been high and ongoing collaboration on climate issues . one of the more promising recent initiatives is the carbon pricing coalition ( cplc ) , which brings together 30 governments and more than 180 businesses and strategic partners to value the carbon in dioxide emissions . the idea is simple : if we are to meet the paris accord ’s target of limiting a rise in global average temperature to less than 2 ° celsius above preindustrial levels – ideally , to 1.5 ° celsius above preindustrial levels – we must cut emissions dramatically .
once greece goes , runs on bank deposits will most likely follow in spain and italy . nothing can be done to stop spanish and italian depositors from wiring their euros from their local bank to one in switzerland , norway , switzerland , or new york . at that moment , the only thing still stands is between the eurozone , and with the financial chaos that the ecb could purchase government bonds and fund bank runs . the scale of such an operation would be enormous and expose the ecb to massive credit risk , which is not a matter of course huge . but it might essentially step in – if northern europe were to allow .
here , it looks clear that unmo ’s political interests have been enabled to dictate that it would be possible for the country ’s key opposition leader to seek accusations that no true democracy that embraces the rule of law even considers leveling down , and that convicted of evidence that no truly independent court will ever accept . political leaders in thailand and malaysia , and elsewhere in the region , often tout the model pioneered by singapore ’s founder and longtime leader , lee kuan yew , who died earlier this month . yet the path upon which the two countries have embarked has not been lee ’s path . yes , lee ’s system enabled him to remain in power for 31 years , and it has been using civil liberties – rather than criminal courts – to harry his opponents . but , more fundamentally , lee also has relied on elements of a democratic contestation to ensure that meritocracy triumphed over patronage .
is all his supporters “ crazies , ” as senator john mccain , perhaps unwisely , have called them ? trump ’s critics have argued , he plays to the basest instincts of disaffected voters that hate foreigners ( especially mexicans ) , distrust bankers ( or someone with a higher education , for this matter ) , and still can not get over the election of a president whose father was black . trump , in the comedian jon stewart ’s words , is “ america id , ” or at least the id of much of white mostly middle-aged , mostly small-town americans . now all of it may be . but trump is partly of a broader phenomenon throughout the democratic world .
in europe , that picture , too , is mixed . the former boom countries – greece , ireland , and spain – remain mired in recession , and their gdps are likely to continue to shrink . the unemployment rate in spain , one of europe ’s large economies , has rocked to 20 % , and is not yet showing any sign of improvement . the spanish economy contracted by 3.6 % in 2009 , and is expected to shrink this year by 0.4 % . for finland , britain , and italy , below-average growth rates are projected .
malmö – “ all of us knows ” that you should drink eight glasses of water per day . after all , this is the advice of a multitude of health writers , to say that authorities like britain ’s department of homeland health are the advice of many health writers . healthy living now implies carrying bottled bottles with us , sipping at all times as trying to drink our daily quota to make sure we remain hydrated , healthy . indeed , often , we drink without being thirsty , but that is how that should be : like the beverage maker gatorade reminds us , “ your brain may know a lot ; but that does n’t know when your body is thirsty . ” sure , drinking this much will not feel comfortable ; but powerade offers this sage counsel : “ you may be able to train your gut to tolerate more fluid if you build your fluid intake progressively . ”
businesses are reluctant to invest in an era of plummeting consumer demand and facing unprecedented risk penalties for borrowing at the expense of their borrowing . they also face enormous uncertainties . what type of power plants will be acceptable in the future ? will they be allowed to emit carbon dioxide ? can the united states still afford a suburban lifestyle , with sprawling homes in far-flung communities demanding long-distance automobile commutes ?
poor mandates , inadequate funding , disorganized structures , and a lack of a global governance system have weakened the capacity of inter-governmental agencies to operate with authority in the name of the most compromised . as i argue in germany this week , g-20 leaders meeting in hamburg on july 7-8 have an opportunity to reshape migration ’s governance system with proactive protection policies that enhance people ’s trust in international leadership . though past summits have produced little more than talk points , the prospect for action is better this time , given that talks will be held in europe , where the impact of the migration crisis has deep feeling . at present , an alphabet soup of nonprofit and multilateral agencies addresses elements of the challenge . these include independent groups like the refugees international ( ir ) and médecins sans frontières ( msf ) .
by late 1950s , roughly 2000 computers in the us and their processing power had risen to 10,000 machine instructions per second . there are now 300 million computers in the us , with processing power averaging several hundred million instructions per second -- four _ trillion _ fold growth in raw , automated computational power , average annual growth of 56 % ! there is every reason to believe that this pace of productivity growth will continue for decades to come . over a generation ago , intel ’s co _ founder , gordon moore , noted that improvements in semiconductor fabrication allow for a doubling of the transistors ' density on a chip every eighteen months . the scale of investment required to make what is known as `` moore ’s law '' holds has grown exponentially together with the density of transistors and circuits , but `` moore ’s law ” remains in force and engineers see no immediate obstacles that will lead to a process of improvement to a halt anytime soon .
by targeting schools as hubs for health-care education and shaping student students into health ambassadors for their families and friends , we can reach an even greater number of people in xinjiang ’s nomadic communities . xinjiang means the “ new frontier , ” and the right now we are at the edge of a new frontier in delivering sustainable health-care solutions to communities where scarce resources and infrastructure constrain access to health care . these multidimensional , scalable interventions help bridge gaps in developing regions . but neither corporations nor governments can do so on their own . they must work together to achieve the best-possible outcome .
fortunately , he still has time and many previous us presidents set a precedent for bold diplomacy during their final months in the white house . back in 1988 , ronald reagan recognized the palestine liberation organization , and authorized the us state department to launch “ substantive dialogue ” with plo leaders . in the late 2000 ’s , bill clinton published his parameters for a future framework of peace . and , starting with the annapolis conference in late 2007 , george w. bush mediated a set of negotiations between abbas and israeli prime minister ehud olmert , as well as the united states in the united nations in which he had already been elected in a peace deal . now it is obama ’s turn to push for a un security council resolution that sets new parameters for a future peace agreement , and replaces un security council resolution 242 , which dates back to the 1967 six-day war between israel and egypt , jordan and syria .
loughner ’s april 19 shooting in 2011 , including congresswoman gabrielle giffords , attracted worldwide attention , just as did court-ordered evaluation by his mental competency . indeed , on the sidelines of the world , an australian newspaper mentioned giffords 160 times over the next six months after shooting , compared to just one mention in a few months earlier . though mass shootings are extraordinarily scarce even in the us , media coverage consistently reinforces negative perceptions at home and abroad . in this manner , the us may well be exporting an mental-illness stigma to the rest of the world . likewise , cho ’s history of mental illness has been widely discussed .
it is a key front in global confrontation between democracy and autocracy . for europe , that represents a unique opportunity to promote the rule of law , transparency , free trade , and good governance beyond its borders . ukraine is a large country with ample human capital , natural resources , and growth potential in many sectors . more important , successful reforms in ukraine are creating positive developments in russia . still , ukraine ’s economy has shrunk by two-thirds ( in the dollar terms ) since 2006 , making the poorest country in europe .
at one extreme lies the notion that the euro can not function like the dollar , given that the eurozone is not a federalized nation-state . rather , it should resemble the bretton woods system under which countries could exit and re-enter after bolstering competitiveness through austerity and reform . but this strategy carries serious risks that ultimately make it unworkable . re-establishing relative prices would require internal devaluation that could generate social and political instability in weaker countries . civil unrest and the rise of neo-nazi parties in europe ’s south exemplify this dangers , threatening the very purpose of european integration .
the problem comes when expansionary monetary policy via the standard open-market operations and central-bank guarantees of disorderly markets demonstrate insufficient scope . economists disagree about when , under what circumstances , and in what order governments to move beyond these first two items on checklist . should governments strive to increase monetary velocity by selling bonds in order to boost short-term interest rates ? should they employ unemployed workers directly or indirectly through a bringing about expenditure cuts or expanding the scale of government programs ? should they explicitly guarantee large financial institutions ’ liabilities and/or asset classes ?
it also includes the promise to leave the eu ’s single market and customs union . uk ministers mainly have a responsibility for the talks – the grouping better known for their dogmatism and personal ambition than their competence – have so far managed to secure agreement in one crucial region : following the march 2019 deadline , a two-year transition period will start . but even this agreement is not set in stone , because it depends on whether negotiators may first agree on what to do about the irish and northern ireland ’s border once the uk leaves the customs union . one may be in a customs union without borders , or outside the customs union . there is no example elsewhere in the world .
the eurozone is also highly fragmented finance , lacking a common capital market , the unifying safe asset market , or tools for macroeconomic stabilization in the medium to come . the ecb needs a more realistic , flexible mandate , with the ecb also having the right approach to achieving a sustainable , flexible financial system . given the eurozone ’s fragmented nature , the mandate is most likely to remain centered on price stability . but it should also recognize that the current definition of price stability – “ beneath , but close to , 2 % inflation over the medium term ” – is too narrow . a broader definition is needed , according to which the ecb pursues a symmetric 2 % inflation target within the 1.5-2.5 % band over a longer-term horizon .
when it comes to wishing for peace in the middle east – virtually a new year of tradition – one need careful attention . so many hope vanished in the bitter failure of so many negotiations . but we have a wish for the middle east – one that , while perhaps not bringing peace , can create one of the preconditions for peace : goodwill . israel and palestine should co-bid for and be awarded , the 2018 soccer world cup . the israel-palestine conflict last lasted long .
so the real question is how to make the point where the iraqi police force and army can be trusted to maintain law in the same way as order . much ground to get anywhere close is necessary . despite the courage of the many iraqis who join either the army and police , no one should be surprised if some have motives that are less than pure . old scores are settled in northern iraq , and de facto ethnic segregation is being introduced in areas such as irbil , which has traditionally been diverse . in other areas , sharia law is being introduced through force .
differences between the madrid and warsaw demonstrations suggest that distinguishing between old and new europe remains valid , if not the way rumsfeld actually meant . it would be inaccurate , of course , to oppose a prosperous poland to a collapsing spain . in view of the overall european crisis , even poland ’s economy is no longer booming . with unemployment at around 10 % ( still less than half the spanish rate ) and annual gdp growth averaging around 1 % ( spain ’s growth rate is negative ) , the real ( the real level of gdp ) . but moods within the two countries , along with the perception of europe and their role in it , starkly different .
berlin – the united kingdom ’s voters ’ decision to “ brexit ” is no example of the british black humor that i love . it is not “ monty python the flying circus , ” “ yes , prime minister , ” or “ fawlty towers ” ; “ it is simply boris , michael , and nigel farage , and their catastrophic political realities show . ” given the uk ’s economic , political , and military significance , brexit will leave an gaping hole within the eu . but it will not destroy europe . at the moment , the same can not be said of the uk .
as israel celebrates its 60th birthday , palestinians remember nakbeh or “ calamity ” – their narrative of dispossession , occupation , and statehood . but , for both sides , as well as external powers , the events of 1948 and what have followed – occupation from the remaining lands of historic palestine – represent an tragic failure . israel is at fault for this failing , owing to its continued military occupation and illegal settlements . despite being granted lip service to peace , israel ’s refusal to abandon the occupied territories continues to contravention what the preamble of united nations security council resolution 242 calls the “ inadmissible acceptance of land by force . ” but the international community , palestinians , and arabs all bear responsibility as well , albeit at varying levels .
reducing uncertainty might augment , or even superior , fiscal stimulus programs for it would address the root causes of unwillingness to spend . moreover , recession insurance might , unlike fiscal policy , impose no cost in government , for if it stimulates trust , then the risk that the insured are against prevails . the government ’s ability to offer such insurance on a scale sufficient to make it costless is one reason to favor a public scheme more broadly than private insurers . blanchard and his colleagues point out that , in their case , bank loans might be condition for firms to buy the recession insurance program that might help the credit markets function better , to resolve a serious problem underlying the current crisis . tantalizingly , they say that doing so would produce the “ market-based view of future output and the likelihood of severe shocks . ”
so far , enforcement has failed , because of flaws in the eurozone fundamentals . first , fiscal and external account balances are to be kept in check to guarantee financial stability and sustain the common currency . second , eliminating imbalances is the responsibility of national governments , within the context of a rescue regime organized by supranational authority – the european commission and the european central bank – in cooperation with the european council to transform national governments . the greek saga shows that this system can not be controlled by destabilizing imbalances quickly enough to ward off major crises . imbalances are not simply the result of irresponsible policies .
as a result , its trade surplus continued to plummet , at $ 20.4 trillion , fueling rising anxiety about the chinese slowdown . china ’s slump appears abrupt ; after all , its exports were rising at double-digit tariffs each month until may . in fact , the chinese economy ’s true condition has long been obscured , but it has now faced tighter regulation of activity such as speculative trading by the renminbi masquerading as trade payments . specifically , china ’s “ two systems ” scheme has enabled exports to bonded warehouses in hong kong to pad trade statistics . moreover , chinese exports sometimes would have increased in the face of a slump in cargo exports from ports .
for most equity investors , it depends heavily on the value of any project to implement effective post-investment management . clear rights and obligations must therefore work carefully at the start of an investment , something that was all but absent previously . after all , m & a is only just the first step on a long road . as chinese firms invest overseas – as mine does at present in latin america – it has a responsibility not just to invest wisely and sustainably for their companies ; it must also integrate their strategies with china ’s national investment priorities . those are not mutually exclusive goals , particularly if business leaders adhere to the newly-articulated principles for sustainable investment and long-term engagement .
and our embrace of our global responsibilities extends to japanese self-defense forces . members of us self-defense forces have displayed exemplary co-operation with the american and australian armed forces during the 2011 great east japan earthquake , earning deep appreciation and reverence everywhere they have deployed , including haiti , indonesia , and most recently by the philippines . to make proactive contributions to peaceful means that japan will shoulder its own share of responsibility for assuring security that it supports global prosperity and stability . working alongside the countries with which we share shared values and interests , we will safeguard and cultivate international public goods , from space to cyberspace to skies and seas . as the world will see during obama ’s visit , japan is back and thrive .
how can israel ’s preferred palestinian leaders , abbas , and pa prime minister salam fayyad , be left with any credible capacity to negotiate if talks can not begin until , as israel insists , they will retreat on their minimal condition of a settlement freeze on the occupied territories ? for all that israel downplays its significance , the 2002 arab peace initiative still provides critically important negotiations : full normalization in relations by the arab world as a whole in exchange for comprehensive peace peace settlement . how long can this arab league ’s status be sustained with peace talks go nowhere ? another big question for israel is whether it can accept the consequences if a two-state solution disappears entirely from the agenda . israel , as founding pa father david ben--gurion has warned , can be a jewish state ; and can it be a state occupying the whole of historical israel ; but it can not be all three .
nor was it the crisis that brought corruption back to an influence on official officialdom at all levels , or that left russia to lose its democratic dynamic . we russians rode along with oil and gas , forgetting that these resources will not last forever . but , even with favorable world market conditions , we failed to address the poverty problem in which millions of russians still live . i am convinced that russia ’s troubles all come down to politics . we need a democratic , competitive environment , an initiative at all levels , an active civil society , and a genuine public check .
but allowing greece to default and still stay in the eurozone is not an option : it would signal that other eurozone countries could amass huge debts financed by the ecb without ever having any intention of repaying . fiscal responsibility in the eurozone would be fatally undermined . yet forcing greece to default from the eurozone – against its will – is no option , either : it would plunge the country toward economic , social , and political instability , with doubtless serious consequences beyond the country ’s borders . in my judgment , there are only two viable options left . the first – and , more desirable – is for the ecb to judge realistically greece ’s solvency gap and to stop providing ela funds to its banking system .
china , for example , imposes an idle-land-tax on formerly public-land land if its owners fail to initiate the process of development within a year . this brings us to the second-key lever for expanding the affordable housing sector : a more cohesive and effective construction sector . as it stands , the housing-building industry is highly fragmented , impeding its ability to seize advantage over economies of scale , with builders often relying on largely the same methods used 50 years ago . by standardizing design elements like the ceiling heights , fixtures , and flooring , construction companies may cut costs and raise productivity , as workers get their experience with repetitive tasks . further savings are possible through industrial approaches , such as the use of components – for example , wall street and flooring slabs – built offsite .
encouragingly , developing-country governments have increasingly been calling for hpv vaccine . this makes sense : of the 266,000 women who die each year from cervical cancer – an average of two minutes – 85 % in developing countries . if left unchecked , that figure is expected to rise to 416,000 by 2035 , overtaking maternal deaths . for many of these countries , hpv vaccines are not just an effective solution ; one that precludes 1,500 deaths per 100,000 vaccinated ; they are often the only solution , because the poorest countries lack the capacity to offer screening or treatment for cervical cancer . this is one reason why cancer experts , government officials , private-sector leaders , and civil-society representatives met just a few weeks ago in addis ababa for the tenth stop cervical , breast , and prostate cancer conference in africa .
washington , dc – the ongoing corruption investigations in brazil have exposed the tangled network of illicit interactions between private enterprises , government bureaucrats , and elected politicians . already , corruption scandals have reached the top levels of brazilian society , with corruption scandals . a number of high-level politicians and corporate owners and business executives have been convicted , and they remain imprisoned . even former president luiz inácio lula da silva ’s term is now under impeachment . meanwhile , the drama has taken its toll on the brazilian economy .
all this raises long-term well , but it exacerbates short-term inequalities and frictions . i am not arguing against health-care capitalism , but rather warning that support would become fragile , far more so than , say , that today ’s the eu . most countries rely far too heavily on command and control and provide far too few incentives for patients and providers to ensure that efficient choices are made . nevertheless , it remains to be seen whether healthcare pressures ultimately will fuel the current trend toward free ( and freer ) capitalism to reverse , with a very large chunk of the economy reverting to a more socialist system . some societies might decide that they are better red than dead .
cambridge – in a nineteenth-century physicist heinrich hertz once described his feeling that james clerk maxwell ’s equations depicting fundamentals of electricity and magnetism “ have an independent existence and intelligence of their own , that they are wiser … even than their discoverers , that we get more out than was originally placed into them . ” not long after , albert einstein called niels bohr ’s atomic model “ the highest form of musicality in the sphere of thinking . ” more recently , the late nobel laureate richard feynman described his discovery of the new laws of physics , declared to “ recognize truth by its beauty and simplicity . ” similar sentiment is all but universal among modern physicists ; indeed , it is that we can not be found by the facts that we are more “ learning the truth . ” wishful thinking might never produce working iphones , photographs of pluto , or atomic bombs .
cambridge : why , with clearly formulated alternatives at the top table , did the government choose a predictably disastrous course of action , at such high human costs ? there are three possibilities : ignorance , intent , and strategic interaction . let ’s start last one . in a 1991 paper in allan drazen and alberto alesina suggested that economic stabilization might be delayed because two contending groups are imprisoned in a war of attrition ; all understand that the adjustment requires but expect the other group to bear the brunt of the costs . by delaying , they provide information to the other group about their willingness to withstand the pain .
a democratic , prosperous , and stable europe implies a much better and secure global environment . here , too , is where the fed comes to mind . by shifting its monetary-policy regime toward target 4 % annual inflation – or 6 % annual nominal gdp growth – america ’s would be set in motion a rapid rebalancing of the eurozone as a whole . rather than see the 30 % appreciation of the euro that would follow from the ecb ’s current monetary policy , german exporters would shout on measures intended to prevent america ’s “ competitive devaluation , ” finally bring about moderate inflation in the north rather than the south ’s currently grinding depression . a world in which the us has a proven record of honoring the trust it demands to play the role of the global economic hegemon is much better for the rest of the world than one in which it is not trusted .
and a group of 47 republican senators has written a letter to iran ’s leaders announcing that next congress can not honor whatever nuclear deal they reach with obama . another source of doubt about america ’s enduring influence lies in the continuing need for multilateral engagement , and this is always more difficult than bilateral engagement . indeed , a multilateral leadership requires not just clearer and bolder rules , but also a show of willingness to shoulder the costs of those regulations , whether by forming secure zones to uphold “ responsibility for protection ” civilians or taking concrete steps to reduce – and in the end eliminate – its nuclear arsenals . bilateral engagement will prove one of obama ’s most important foreign-policy legacies . but to ensure that america ’s ability to continue to lead in the twenty-first century will require another sort of engagement .
caracas – venezuelan president nicolás maduro and his administration have ruined their countries . while they claim the redeemers of the poor , trumpet their readiness to fight for their “ selfless ” bolivarian cause , trump ’s international assistance , forcing venezuelans either to emigrate or to suffer ( and , in many cases , die ) from severe food shortages , medicines , and medical supplies . the destruction of venezuela urgently needs to be halted if its viability as a nation and society is to re-establish itself . that requires a new government of unquestionable legitimacy , chosen through the free or fair presidential choice of the presidential election before the end of this year , as dictated by the us constitution . to be sure , maduro and his associates will not simply step down , because losing power probably implies long prison terms in the united states over the drug trade or the hague for crimes against humanity .
so far , china has largely hijacked a “ dreams field ” approach to urbanization : “ building it , and they will coming . ” indeed , during the past 30 years , massive levels of public investment and economic liberalization has spurred rapid growth in coastal provinces of the coastal areas . and now china ’s leaders are increasingly taking the view that the strategies inland , which make critical investments in physical and human capital . but the efficacy of such investments will depend on both the sequence and the rate of implementation and the how skillfully they are tailored to each locality ’s distinct resources , needs , and aspirations . four interrelated issues must be addressed .
if china really distancing itself from north korea , kim jong-un ’s regime will become nearly entirely isolated internationally . will kim react to this kind of isolation recklessly , by pursuing antagonized the south , or pragmatically , by becoming more flexible ? this is not an easy question , to answer . it should now be obvious to kim that his parade of provocations has little benefit his country . his bellicose behavior made in 2013 , for example , worsened his relationships with china , south korea , and the united states simultaneously ; and , in a recent crisis , he earned , in turn , a stop to ridicule louisiana broadcasts .
the only thing that has changed since then is the growth of islamic fundamentalism and the religious radicalization of some young people . only french prime minister manuel valls – the son of spanish immigrants – has highlighted the issue , referring to “ social and ethnic apartheid ” that has developed within his home countries . france and throughout europe , the need to address this outcome has become more fundamental than ever , because rioting and criminality by young and underprivileged migrants are matched by the rise of far-right political parties . europeans can not afford an ethnic clash ; on the contrary , with their aging , shrinking populations , european countries badly need more immigrants . statistics are perplexing and sometimes contradictory , but europe ’s current foreign-born population of some 33 million may grow by a further 100 million immigrants by mid-century .
countries in which english is not lingua franca are particularly disadvantaged in science , not because it is a lack of academic excellence , but because english-language journals call the shots . not only do english-language academic journals command the same level of focus on the scientific community . as a result , the scale of the research topics that many countries may make is limited and must struggle to retain scientific talents . this is particularly true in the middle east , where governments struggle to diversify their economies in an effort to make them more resilient . as english-language empirical-research journals consolidate their hold on channels determine whether or not the scientist has a successful career , developing countries would have to invest heavily in their own data infrastructure to place domestic researchers on a more competitive footing .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now on the horizon . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . at this week ’s international monetary fund-world bank spring meetings , malpass must address these concerns head-on . his past is to be judge , or by his links to the trump administration , but by making him his delivery .
there are essentially two competing explanations , and not most , of these are essentially the two competing explanations . the first one is that larry summers proposed secular stagnation hypothesis . his key premise , therefore , is that the equilibrium interest rate – at which demand would equilibrium supply currently is below the actual interest rate – is below what it does . this looks paradoxical , because interest rates are close to zero in most advanced economies . but what matters is the real interest rate .
for their part , african players grumbled that their absence from europe reduced their commercial opportunities during a crucial league season . but the most important lesson revealed in the africa cup is that successful nations are , for their part , those that combine the opportunities of globalization with strong domestic fundamentals . for the cup ’s winning , either cameroon nor cote d’ivoire , or by any of the other african teams loaded with star players out of european leagues , but egypt , which fielded only four players ( out of 23 ) who play in europe . cameroon , on the other hand , which egypt defeated in finland , featured only a unified player from the home club , with 20 from european clubs . few egyptian players would have been familiar to those europeans who watched that game , but egypt played far better and deserve to prevail .
berlin – the task facing north korea ’s saber rattling is no easy feat by confronting a impoverished and effective defeated country . on the contrary , it is in such circumstances that calm foresight is most necessary . the habsburg empire ’s genius , prince klemens von metternich , framing the new international order after the napoleonic wars , was that it did not push france into a corner . though metternich sought to deter any possible french resurgence , he restored france ’s prewar frontiers to the brink of war . by contrast , as henry kissinger argued , the victors in world war i could neither deter a defeated germany nor provide the incentives that the treaty of versailles adopted .
sometimes dating the recession to the us is a judgment called the judgment . america had a short , sharp recession in 1980 , followed by a long and severe one in 1981/1982 . many economists believe that it was the one major episode and that is probably the appropriate way to think of it in a broader historical context . but the economies did , indeed , grow in the interim – barely enough to consider the distinct recessions . and , because they were separated in the transition from us president jimmy carter to president ronald reagan , it was politically consequential , for two recessions identified .
in the 1990s , for example , sanctions regimes were introduced at an average tariff of about seven per year . of the 67 cases in this decade , two-thirds were unilateral sanctions by the united states ; by the end of the twentieth century , they were not the united states . during bill clinton ’s presidency , it is estimated that some 40 % of the world ’s population , or 2.3 billion people , were subject to some form of u.s. sanctions . in fact , large countries against small countries , the sanctions are enforced by the large majority . currently , us sanctions have nearly 8,000 sanctions globally , with iran by a far the largest state objective .
in an equally tweet justifying his phone call with tsai , trump repeated a false charge that china is devaluing its currency to gain export advantages vis-à-vis the us . his knowledge of international economics is either non-existent or 10 years off date . in reality , as china hemorrhaging foreign-exchange reserves and desperately trying to prop up the renminbi ’s value when faced with capital flight , china is currently hemorrhaging its foreign-exchange reserves . trump , apparently , has antagonizing china for no good reason to justify . worse , by announcing the us withdrawal from the trans-pacific partnership – designed , at least partly , to shape global trade and investment flows according to western rules , rather than to china ’s mercantilist vision – trump is also abandoning a us policy that could check china ’s rising influence in asia .
what we do know is that no alternative great power is willing and able to take a leap in , and assume what played the role of the us . in the united states , china is a often mentioned candidate ; yet its leadership has tended to focus on consolidating domestic order and maintaining artificially high economic-growth rates to stave off popular unrest . china ’s interest in regional and global institutions seems intended mostly to strengthen its economy and geopolitical influence , rather than to help to set rules and establish broadly beneficial arrangements . likewise , russia is a narrowly-based economy , led by a government centered on maintaining power at home and re-establishing russian influence across the middle east and europe . india is preoccupied with the challenge of economic development and is tied to its troubling relationship with pakistan .
beijing – china ’s annual gdp growth slowed to 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , down from 8.1 % in the first quarter and the lowest growth rate since the second quarter of 2009 . the just-published growth figures might dispelled fears about a hard landing for china , but nonetheless prompted many to argue that , by the end of 2010 , china had to stimulate its economy further to guarantee 8 % annual growth . since early 2010 , to contain inflation and property bubbles , the chinese government , in turn , has tightened monetary policy . as a result , the annual inflation rate has dropped from june to 2.2 % , a 29-month low , and house prices for which the national bureau of statistics unfortunately stopped issuing official data seem to stabilizing and may even have fallen modestly , albeit modestly . to be sure , the chinese slowdown in the growth rate is a reflection of the government ’s success in spurring a rein in the real-estate bubble , as has other official policies aimed at rebalancing the economy .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . from a moral standpoint , there is a powerful case that comes to terms with respect to female individual freedom and bodily autonomy , rather than forcing her to introduce her health or wellbeing at risk by pursuing unwanted or unsafe pregnancy to the longer term . even then , given how rife with misinformation and muddied by misbegotten arguments , policy debates often go nowhere unless they frame abortion first and foremost as health concerns .
africa ’s enduring perception as the village exacerbates slum dwellers ’ plight , kept them off the world ’s development agenda . each day , the more people arrive in nairobi enticed by the promise of employment , resources , and better lifestyles only to realize that they are not equipped to survive there to grow their children slum dwellers . at least half of those living in urban slums are in the age of 20 . without access to education , that generation – which will soon be most likely be the majority – has little hope of ever escaping its own own , more or less conditions . for how long , however , will the majority serve ? for just how long will it embrace a lack of water , sanitation , education , and dignity ?
the problem is that the principle is impossible to pursue consistently . a world in which we live is a tiny garden of well-examined territories surrounded by dim and murky forest of calamities . disasters lurking in our distance are legion : disaster-related and comets ; world-wide pandemics and plagues ; nuclear and non-nuclear wars ; droughts , famines and floods ; volcanic eruptions , earthquakes , tsunamis ; human-over-population and non-human extinction ; rising temperatures and sea-level ; falling temperatures and spreading ice ages ; the exhaustion of clean air and water ; the disappearance of forests , farms , and fish . all of these calamities – and many still envisioned – are possible . the precautionary principle prescribes action , regardless of cost .
milan – for much of the post-world war ii era , economic policy has focused on unemployment . the great depression ’s severe job losses – reversed only when world war ii and the massive debt accumulated to finance it , kick-start economic growth – had a lasting impact on at least two generations . but jobs are only one facet of well-being ; in today ’s world , they are not nearly enough . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the cold war of the twentieth century pitted two rival military alliances against one another . sino-american rivalry , by contrast , involves two economies that are closely integrated with each other , as well as with the rest of the world .
the way the residents of this archipelago were systematically dispossessed , thrown off his land in the name of western strategic interests is a human tragedy for which the west can and should make restitution . between 1968 and 1973 , british labour and conservative governments organized the removal of all living on the 55 islands ( including the sea ) , which now comprise the british indian ocean ( biot ) region , and that were split off from mauritius at a time of independence . this was done at the behest of the united states , which at the time had been embroiled in the vietnam war , and required , for understandable security reasons , the use of diego garcia island as an air-and naval base . the british foreign office claimed in time that the chagos islands had no settled population . chagossians were shipped off to the seychelles and mauritius , where they had been deposited and left to fend for themselves .
islamabad – last year , pakistan witnessed a second successful democratic transition in its 71-year history , with prime minister imran khan assuming office after his party won general election on an anti-corruption slogan . hopes are high for a new administration that seems willing to work with the two technocrats and the opposition sides to confront pakistan ’s many urgent challenges . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but it does not augur all-out war .
owing to the 2010 dodd-frank act , the fed can issue emergency collateralized funding only to at least five eligible institutions – something of an issue if only your four largest banks are in trouble – and must reaffirm that counterparty is financially viable in the face of any funding that could be made available . but the task of establishing whether or not a troubled entity is viable is best left for once financial order recovers . as the term implies , “ emergency ” liquidity needs to be made available to systemically systemically important financial institutions , even when insolvent and resolution is insolvent . in any case , the counter-cyclical pursuit of price stability , and/or full employment during cyclical downturns , now looks destined for an extended involuntary holiday . unless governments come to the saving intelligently designed countercyclical fiscal and supply-side policies , systemically important advanced economies are likely to embark on a prolonged run of classic , unadulterated cyclical downturns .
fiscal adjustment and structural reform without financing are more fragile , and liable to default without the war chest of liquidity in order to prevent a run on public debt while appropriate policies are implemented and gradually gain credibility . at the same time , unless greece fully adjust its policies to restore fiscal stability and competitiveness , a partial bailout by the eu and the ecb will still be likely to avoid the risk of contagion to the rest of europe , and the consequent threat to the currency union ’s survival . after all , greece might have the same global systemic effects of the collapse of lehman brothers in 2008 . sovereign spreads are already pricing the risk that greece will have from domino effect to spain , portugal , and other euro-zone members . the eu and the ecb have worried about the moral hazard of any “ bailout . ”
sharing mountainous – and porous – borders with afghanistan , this region includes numerous taliban sympathizers among its fellow pashtuns . human rights groups have long urged extending the writ large pakistan constitution to the tribal belt , where religion-based parties have wide support . these religious parties , a coalition now heads provincial governments in the north ’s frontier province , have been politically marginalized so far as given a central role to pakistan ’s military dictator in the 1980 ’s , general zia ul haq , to lead pakistan ’s covert military interventions in the afghanistan war against the soviet occupation . throughout his rule , religion-based politics grew along with the madrassahs and fighters who trained and furnished pakistani intelligence agencies . the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , and subsequent pressures from washington , led pakistan to a u-turn from pro-jihadi policies .
throughout history , america has always been trying to insulate its markets from foreign competition . so history has once more victorious over ideology . with america ’s loss of interest , the chief prop of neo-liberal policies has been pulled away . mainstream politicians may still nod reverently as the world is invoked in the global free market , but in practice the world is reverting to an older and more durable model . tacitly accepted in the future is that , as in the past , the world will contain a diverse set of economic systems and regimes in many ways .
his first few years in power dominate the struggle to gain control over the country ’s state-owned oil company , pdvsa . upon reasserting political control in 2003 , chávez fired a 40 % of pdvsa ’s workers . his hostility to foreign players in the industries ( expropriating several american petroleum firms ’ holdings in 2007 ) limited us investment and held back manufacturing in return . chávez turned pdvsa into personal fiefdom and used it to be cash-cow ; many of his social programs were financed directly from the company ’s budget . starved of cash , pdvsa was pushed to cut back on maintenance and expansion , boosting the rate of accidents and reducing production .
an armed attack by the united states , israel , or both on iran ’s nuclear facilities is another possibility . one downside of such a prospect that iran would likely retaliate against american interests and personnel in iraq and afghanistan , and use hamas and hezbollah against israel and others . iran could also interfere in oil traffic , resulting in rising prices and delivering further blows on american and global economic recovery . furthermore , while a preemptive strike would delay iran ’s nuclear efforts , this would not stop the regime from rebuilding , and it might also create conditions that pose challenges to the regime ’s domestic opponents . yet , despite these potential drawbacks , an arming of us attack on iran ’s nuclear facilities will and should remain a distinct option given the enormous strategic costs of a nuclear-armed iran .
lord northern is remembered for losing the british union with america , and we are all too easy to lose . two centuries later , outgoing prime minister david cameron may well be remembered for his loss of two unions – with the european union and between england and scotland . while conservatives want scotland to be britain without europe , scottish nationalists want scotland in a europe without britain . and with northern ireland ’s republican party led by sinn fein demanding a vote to reunite the south , now the uk ’s very existence squarely on the agenda . there is one way to lessen uncertainty and risk : the government should quickly announce that it will be negotiating with the eu based on norway ’s option of eea membership .
a power-sharing agreement is all but unthinkable and syria ’s geography does not bode well for an orderly separation along sectarian lines . assad ’s war aims to be diminished to avoid decisive defeat and gain international legitimacy , in the hope of favorable political solutions . the rise of the islamic state has given support to the us government ’s claim that syria risks being taken over by terrorist groups ; nevertheless , the regime finds itself increasingly isolated . assad ’s final days are unlikely to be pretty much . the tight-knit members of his clan , its political allies , and many members of the alawite minority will be fighting for its survival .
if the super-rich believe that they are no longer part of society and have little need for government , that belief corresponds to objective facts . it is because the prevailing narrative line of our time portrays markets as self-standing entities that run on their means of fuel . this is the narrative afflicting all segments of society , the middle class is no less than rich . there is no reason to expect that the super-rich will act less selfishly than any other group . but it is not so great to their own self-interest that stands in terms of greater equality and social inclusion .
but , while that can explain why capital-spending was weak , and interest rates were low for the past three years , one can not take into account why capital spending was not insufficient for preventing a trending pace from more than three decades . here , the one explanation still stands out is the shift away from capital-intensive forms of manufacture , like manufacturing , to less capital-intensive activities , like services . if disorder has multiple causes , then there should be multiple treatments . there should be tax incentives for firms to hire the long-term unemployed ; more public expenditure on infrastructure , education , and research to compensate for shortfall in private capital spending ; and still higher capital requirements for banks and strengthened nonbank regulation to prevent excessive risk-taking . finally , central banks should establish an inflation target that gives them more room to cut nominal interest rates in response to the future slowdown .
supposedly civilizing influence as a western partner – president of the g-8 summit in saint petersburg to cite example – seems lost to putin ’s kremlin cabal . once again , exposure to western values delivered another potemkin village ; russia presents a façade of laws and democratic institutions ; but , beyond that cardboard surface the same arbitrary brutes rule . the risk for the world is to export putin ’s lawlessness . across russia ’s near abroad , some form of criminalized diplomacy takes root . look at putin ’s attempt to rig ukraine ’s earlier presidential election , and again on criminal charges brought against opposition leader yuliya tymoshenko .
in latin america , many people live with outstretched hands ; they have the opposite effect on the continent . throughout the hemisphere , paternalistic governments accustom people are receiving just enough to survive instead of participating in society . across the region , politicians that writer octavio paz once referred to as a “ philanthropic ogres ” create clients in place of citizens , people who expect , instead of , to demand . democratic latin america limps sideways because it can not run ahead . there are far too many entry barriers to the poor , innovative ones , and those free of access to credit .
one example of this is the wef ’s global competitiveness index and its new inclusive growth and development index . for example , competitiveness must do with its ability to increase market share without sacrificing margin or lowering wages , something that reflects superior productivity . inclusiveness of growth must do with disparities in income and growth across diverse regions and social groups . but this is not what these indexes really measure . instead , indexes include variables – what they refer to as “ policy space ” – that are supposedly intended to generate either competitiveness or inclusive growth .
from the 1960s to 1970s on , those writing about the netherlands often lamented the “ dutch disease . ” there have been so many generous grants , grants , and transfer payments – aimed by anyone from a genuinely needy artists unable to sell their work – that after-tax wages often barely exceeded benefits . so people rarely returned to work after losing or leaving a job or doing so in the underground economy , with its unreported cash payments . consider whether the dutch welfare state is humane and generous , or bloated and foolhardy , its largesse took a heavy toll on the economy . but , unlike , say , french , dutch reacted to their past excesses , with a range of policies designed to foster a return to formal labor markets .
yet significant segments of the global financial and economic elite seem to have thought that unless america falls into recession in the coming months , trump is about to be re-elected . moreover , their prognosis is not only based in fears that they will be wrong again ; many seem resigned to such a outcome ; and some might even hope to do so . at this point , comparisons with the 1930s inevitably go to mind . to be sure , both trump and adolf hitler have little in common . but , in their apparent acceptance of trump ’s re-election , large segments of the liberal establishment behave like germany ’s financial , and industrial elites when hitler rose to power by the 1930s .
to prevent such a future , asian countries need a change in the rules of the game , providing opportunities for youth , whatever background , to ascend the income ladder . market mechanisms alone are not enough to do this . governments are bound to take action , complementing their pro-growth policies with policies that aim to ensure that gains are shared far more equally and sustainably . to be sure , some asian governments , with the help of progressive redistribution policies , have been trying to address inequality . for example , south korea ’s government recently announced an additional 16.4 % increase in the minimum wage next year , to 7,530 won ( $ 6.70 ) per hour , and up to 555 % above its current level by 2020 .
egyptian defenses blocked central highways across sinai , with an fortified box involving powerful artillery lines and more than a hundred tanks , fronted by three parallel trench-manned lines by thousands of infantrymen , and anchored on sand dunes and high ground in each end . sharon had his soldiers climb over sand dunes to enter trench lines at their top end , launching an assault on length – easy maneuver that egyptians could have defeated had they not been pinned down by an artillery barrage and israeli tanks firing directly at them . the israeli infantrymen taped flashlights to their helmets in such a way that think tank gunners could direct their fire on egyptians just ahead . still , the egyptian artillery was superior , at least silencing tanks at the trench line . but paratroopers , flying in helicopters , suddenly jumped egyptian gun crews , who never had any chance in hand-to-hand-to-hand combat .
over the longer term , countries should aim to match participation rates in conventional first-aid courses . over the last three years , 11 % of australia ’s population has completed this course partly owing to requirements that people in certain positions , such as child-care workers , have first-aid certification . requiring people to match occupations in particular occupations – including high-school teacher teachers , nurses , and police officers , respectively – acquire mental-health first-aid certifications would significantly boost participation , thereby strengthening support for those struggling with mental-health challenges . such certifications are all the more important in the developing world , given the limited availability of mental-health professionals . pilot work in rural india shows that a mental-health first-aid approach can be tailored successfully to the needs of resource-limited communities .
yet the cost to produce these drugs is far less than a market-price , possibly as low as $ 350 – $ 500 per year for some three drugs used to treat aids . some quality generic drug producers , such as india ’s cipla , have offered to provide these drugs at prices near the cost of production . in response to this bid ( and the wrong publicity ) , merck laboratories , abbott labs , and bristol myers squibb , three major patent-holding companies , have announced their willingness to supply the african market at a “ zero profit ” – ie , at around $ 500 per patient per year for the aids drugs they produce . the tragedy of millions of impoverished people dying from aids , even when drugs exist to treat them , raises deep questions about global intellectual-property rights , as the patent protection creates an obstacle to essential medicines reaching the world ’s impoverished communities around the world . but how could the benefits of a global patent system that provides incentives for innovation and new discoveries be combined with assurance that
but , at what if populist movements ’ continued electoral success helps drive a broader political restructuring that ultimately reinforces european democracy ? that reading is reinforced by macron ’s own experience . having never held an elected office , macron has created a new , center-left party , with support from both center-left and center-right voters . he appears to have restructured french politics in the process . next year ’s european parliamentary election is likely to unveil more about the potential of such political restructuring .
washington , dc – in december 2014 , the “ person of the year ” cover featured salome karwah , nursing assistant who not only survived an ebola epidemic in her native liberia , that year , but also helped waves of patients arriving at her ebola ward . karwah was a hero who met a tragic end . one year ago , she died from childbirth complications , a killer that every month takes twice as many lives as the entire ebola outbreak . childbirth was dangerous for women and newborns throughout human history ; in europe , childbirth has been a major killer . in the nineteenth century , as many as one in 100 pregnancies ended in european countries with the maternal deaths of mother children .
the rest of the region has wanted to emulate . to be sure , refugee labor is a delicate political issue for syria ’s neighbors . an estimated two million syrians live in turkey , with more than one million living in jordan alone . most live outside refugee camps ; many are working together – the most of whom are illegally . in turkey and jordan , unemployment stands at roughly 10 % and 12 % , respectively , and their governments are naturally wary of programs that , if necessary , could impose jobs on their citizens .
the reasons why president george w. bush chose to take the lead in waging war in afghanistan and iraq were no doubt complicated . but the language used by these wars ’ neo-conservative promoters came straight in the kennedy era : the spreading of democracy , the cause of liberty , and universal authority of “ american values . ” one reason why americans elected obama in 2008 was that the rhetoric of american idealism had once again led to the death and displacement of millions . now , when us policymakers talk of “ liberty , ” people see bombing campaign , torture chambers , and the relentless threat of lethal drones . the problem with obama ’s america lies in the contradictory nature of its leadership .
president bush ’s recent visit to asia made little news – through design . but this is because bush did not begin to address the issue looming larger in the region : the changing security faces in asia , in view of china ’s rising economic and military might . for example , this summer , china and russia conducted their first-ever grand-member joint military exercise , with the us . this was followed by russian news reports that china , russia , and india would conduct trilateral army exercises , known as indira 2005 , “ on the same scale ” before the end of this year . historically , such a combination of countries was almost unthinkable , and such exercises could not be explained as simple “ one-off ” affairs with little resonance .
emerging-market governments must address critical issues stemming from weak coordination within , with national and municipal governments on health and health-care policies and programs . they should consider the reforms that include giving city governments authority , resources , and responsibility to address health and health-care outcomes . anticipatory city planning , based on realistic demographic forecasts , patient registries , and health-information systems , along with participation in urban health-knowledge networks , need to be implemented . proven systems and reforms , among emerging-market towns , together with successful new innovations and notions , should be adapted in local settings . this includes new , affordable technologies , such as low-cost mobile telephony for community-health workers .
shanghai – tight media control of unrest in tibet has followed anything to do , to some , looks like far more open coverage of the devastating earthquake in sichuan province . is this a change in china ’s media strategy , or just a brief change of term tactics ? that question stands out in view of chinese public opinion in the latter stage of the tibet crisis . much to the consternation of western media , chinese people worldwide lashed off against its supposedly biased coverage of the tibetan riot . throngs of chinese expatriates and students took to the streets protesting the prejudice they perceived in western media news .
as a result , our forebears ’ livers have remained healthy . meanwhile , our gatherer forebears ate carbohydrates ( the polymers of glucose ) , which were also transported in liver , through the glycolytic pathway , and broken down for energy . any excess glucose stimulated the pancreas to release insulin , which transported glucose into peripheral fat tissue , and that caused liver to store glucose like glycogen ( liver starch ) . so , too , their livers have remained healthy . and nature has done its part by supplying all of the naturally occurring foodstuffs with either fat or carbohydrate as an energy source , rather than both .
there are also 2.4 million new infections annually , and 34 million people , who require hiv/aids treatment to stay alive . there is a widespread misperception in the developed world that we have already won the battle against hiv/aids . in reality , the crisis just become less visible . sub-saharan africa has 10 % of the world ’s population , but is home to 70 % of those living with hiv/aids . throughout africa , the disease is estimated to have lowered the average national growth rate by 2-4 percentage points per year .
abandoning the single market would create grave uncertainties for the british economy , especially in their financial industry . even the us has said it will be unwilling to negotiate some separate free-trade deal with the uk . remaining within the single market , however , comes at a cost – one that british voters may not support . the uk would have to accept the sort of satellite status that norway , iceland , and liechtenstein now have , accepting and implementing decision-making which it takes no part in shaping . if that is unacceptable to the uk , a democratic deficit is left alone , out of the economic cold .
as the curtain drops , two developments will have a profound impact on the withdrawal process and the ultimate outcome . the first is the leadership of the afghan leadership transition , which depends on an orderly withdrawal of american and nato forces by 2014 . the other is the election , also to take place in 2014 , of a new afghan president – a process that needs the united states and its nato allies to claim plausibly that they are handing the country over to a legitimate administration . for afghanistan , ravaged by war without respite since the 1978 “ saur revolution , ” the endgame will be an even more nerve-wracking . as america ’s military leaves behind , a further period of political and strategic uncertainty , after almost a half-century of disorder and civil war , will enter the next phase of political and strategic uncertainty .
new york – watching a sophisticated , democratic society knowingly walk a predictable , avoidable national catastrophe comes with rare and alarming lessons . most british policymakers are well aware that leaving the european union with no post-brexit relationship will inflict enormous damage on their countries . they are not sleepwalking into the abyss ; their eyes are wide open . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of growing challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
this is no longer an option . in fact , even if the us is not trying to normalize relations , russia ’s current economic woes would probably have doomed its longstanding – and already much-diminished – support for castro ’s government . normalization of relations with the us is key to liberalization in cuba . after all , it is best served by such changes not imposing stifling sanctions , or through military “ shock and awe ” tactics , as in iraq , but by socioeconomic improvement and diplomatic engagement by outside powers . indeed , predictions that cuba may now shift toward the chinese-style model of political autocracy and economic opening can be accurate in the short run only now .
much political activity has been directly or indirectly focused on exchange rates in ways that imply new economic and political divisions . although countries have not descended fully into protectionism since the global financial crisis began , it may force policymakers to protect domestic markets while attempting to gain external competitiveness . but , while vigilance has the chance that major countries will embrace competitive devaluations – initiating genuine currency wars – is slim . weidmann is well known to do so when central banks , especially the european central bank , buy sovereign bonds . but claiming that unconventional monetary-policy measures will carry the risk of “ much stronger politicizing ” exchange rates misses the mark .
census bureau projects that america 's population will grow 49 % in the coming four decades , up from 50 % in 2010 . america today has the world 's third most populous country ; the 50 years from now it is likely to be third ( after only china and india ) . not only is immigration irrelevant to economic power , but , given that nearly every developed country is aging and faces the burden of providing for elderly generations , it could help reduce the policy problem 's sharpness . furthermore , even though studies suggest that the short-term , directly measurable economic benefits at the national level are relatively small , and unskilled laborers may suffer from competition , skilled migrants can make important economic sectors . a 1 % increase in immigrant college graduates leads to a 6 % increase in patents per capita .
in fact , only two of the six great economic tasks identified by the work conference fit neatly with the third plenum ’s strategic agenda . what is called for enhanced social security fits the third plenum ’s proposal to allocate 30 % of state-owned enterprises ’ profits to fund safety-net programs – such as pensions and health care – to the third plenum ’s proposal . likewise , emphasis on markets ’ “ decisive role ” in upgrading china ’s industrial structure and eliminating excess capacity is compatible with a third plenum ’s goal of achieving a market-based shift toward a consumer society . but what emerges from all this remains another example of the timeworn “ kitchen sink ” approach to chinese economic policymaking – countless proposals , initiatives , and goals that are loosely connected to best and are , often , beset by internal inconsistencies . a new approach is needed , and it will require three crucial changes to china ’s economic-policy framework .
the essential economic realities that confront the ecb today are that the american economy is falling headlong into a severe slump – bernanke ’s surprise cut speaks volumes to that . it defies economic logic to think that the global economy – including europe – will escape its consequences . as european growth slows , so will inflationary pressures . so trichet should relax , stop threatening others . even with sticky wages and prices in europe , the global slowdown will depress energy , commodity , and food prices across world markets , all of which are important drivers behind today ’s elevated european inflation rate .
all the major players in russia ’s energy-centric economy were quick to fall into line politically , enabling putin to use ukraine ’s oil and gas exports as geopolitical cudgel . eu countries that he could not intimidate militarily , owing to nato , were wooing with discounts – or punished by price hikes . hungarian prime minister victor orbán is putin ’s staunchest friend in europe ( though greek prime minister alexis tsipras seems to want change that ) , while poland ’s leaders have consistently warned that russia might once again become a threat to the continent . as a result , while hungary pays for gazprom $ 260 per thousand cubic meters of gas , poland pays $ 526 – the highest price in the eu . poles are paying steep prices .
but , while accusations of biopiracy may have emotional appeal , impartial analyses have shown a little factual basis . in fact , biopiracy are rare – to the point that the direct approach is possible . instead , the world has formed baroque , a bureaucratic , politicized system that systematically inhibits scientific research , plant breeding , and intellectual property creation . the seed treaty achieves this by establishing a multilateral system for accessing a negotiated list of agricultural genetic resources . the seed treaty has also brought its parties ’ control and secretariat , the 15 research institutions that comprise the consultative group of international agricultural research ( cgiar ) , an influential global research partnership .
it has also cut resources channeled toward particular religious institutions , helped those in his circle to establish privately backed banks through easing regulations , and challenged iran ’s most powerful economic and military institution , the islamic revolutionary revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) . but , as the rift between khamenei and ahmadinejad has grown , support to the president has declined significantly , with even state-run media referring to ahmadinejad ’s loyalists as a “ deviation circle . ” moreover , unlike during ahmadinejad ’s first term , non-state media nowadays publicly criticize his economic and political agendas . with ahmadinejad ’s end of second and final terms fast approaching , it seems unlikely that the disgraced , unpopular president will abandon his efforts to destabilize iran ’s ruling establishment . in fact , he had long promoted mashai as his successor , but khamenei curtailed his illegal efforts – and has now put a halt to mashai ’s candidacy entirely .
under monti ’s leadership , reforms were finally initiated and markets calm . to enhance credibility in the country ’s government , monti ’s government dramatically increased taxes , particularly in real terms and while preserving the already record-high income-tax rate . the tax plan stressed italy , like japan , that the country ’s public debt and private wealth are the country . as the economist marco fortis points out , the italian family wealth continues , if not for long , second to none in europe . beyond growing international credibility , two major changes to the italian political landscape shaped the election campaigns .
one of the most difficult lessons for senior government officials to teach – ­ including me , when i was australian attorney general and foreign minister – has the futility , in all but a tiny minority of cases , of trying to prosecute and punish those responsible for leaks . this does not undo the original damage ; and usually compounds it with further publicity . media are never more enthusiastic about free speech than when they perceive it as reddening face , with rage or humiliation , of those in power . prosecution typically boosts leakers ’ stature , rendering it useless . but some lines need to be drawn if good government is to make sense possible , just as a zone of privacy in our personal and family lives is critical to sustaining relationships that matter most to us .
clearly , there is no form of brexit – or post-brexit britain that will satisfy both groups . this helps to explain may ’s desperation to push brexit through as fast as possible . she wants to get out before voters recognize that she sells their leave campaign to them a sham bill of goods , including the promise that may will maintain all of the benefits of eu membership , particularly full access to europe ’s single market , without having to permit free movement of labour . moreover , though may was in the “ remain ” camp during the referendum campaign , she realizes that , as prime minister , she will hold responsible for any failure in the brexit negotiations . she , too , knows that she can not possibly succeed politically because the media will always spotlight “ defeats , ” while hardly noticing “ wins ” them .
among other things , such surveys should aim to create a stark picture of adolescents ’ exposure to avoidable risk-factors , such as alcohol and illicit drug use , unsafe sexual behaviors , violence , obesity , physical inactivity , and unhealthy diets . to complement this effort , we also need to invest in improving our understanding of how these risk factors – most often studied , in connection with childhood and adulthood – affect adolescents ’ health . according to a study by the global burden of disease , health-risk factors explain at least 50 % of adults ’ early deaths and disability rates , compared to less than 50 % for young people , that figure drops to 26 % . more trials are needed to inform health policies and planning adequately . data-collection efforts should also include focusing on mental health .
pakistan is the troubled country , politically , as well as for economically . talk of regime change , though , may have prompted musharraf to reenter politics . only a politician with the support of key constituencies can hope to restore the political order and economic health , and musharraf is presenting himself as a contender who could support the military as a candidate . so , in a long interview with the bbc before launching his new party , musharraf suggested that pakistan ’s army was the only institution that could save the country from its current woes . ” there is the sense of despondency in pakistan .
with policymakers effectively rewarded for myopic thinking , western democracies find themselves struggling to ensure steady , long-term growth in a manner that , say , authoritarian china is not . there are at least two ways to address this problem in a democratic context . first , governments could be bound to make their predecessors more firmly on political decisions . that way , forward-thinking legislation that has been debated , and enacted , will have time to take effect without risks that it will simply be repealed by a consequential administration . the european union provides a single example for how long-term binding commitments can operate .
this begins with political will and setting priorities . at the wef at incheon , nobel peace prize laureate kailash satyarthi has called for a mass popular movement demanding that education be placed prominently on each politician ’s agenda running through election , at all levels of government . for the sdgs to be operational , education must be given higher billing , nationally , and globally . the un ’s incheon declaration calls for allocating at least 15-20 % of total public expenditure to education . moreover , the ongoing decline in education support must be reversed , with new sources of finance – such as emerging-economy donors , the private sector , foundations , and philanthropists – mobilized .
ukraine ’s current refinance exchange rate is 16 % a year , 10 % less than inflation implies that ukraine has a negative real interest rate of 10 % per year . as a result , ukraine ’s money supply , m3 , exploded by no less than 52 % last year , pointing to a 30 % inflation hitting its own 30 % rate at any time in the past year . the nbu ’s leadership understands that it must act to contain inflation , but its insistence on the dollar peg ties their hands because it prevents them from raising interest rates sufficiently . instead , they have reverted to tight reserve requirements , effectively rationing credit , and thus triggering a domestic credit squeeze at the center of the current international financial crisis , which will probably force some medium-sized banks to default because of a liquidity crunch . rationing is always worse off than the markets .
the first concerns iranian domestic politics and the ongoing power struggle within the regime – and a struggle that scuttled a diplomatic solution once was in place , because neither the conservatives nor reformers were willing to afford president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s diplomatic triumph . one can only hope that , given the severity of the situation , this path to failure will be sealed off . developments in syria , iran ’s last remaining ally in the region , are just as likely to play its role . the downfall of president bashar al-assad ’s regime would amount to a strategic debacle for iran , which would then confront the united front of the arab states , backed by turkey , the us , and israel in some form . iran would then find it difficult to maintain its foothold in lebanon , and its position would become more complicated even in iran , despite its shia majority .
the eu ’s approach to sharing power , hammering out agreements and resolving conflict by multiple committees can be frustrating and lacking drama , but it has become increasingly relevant to many issues in a networked and interdependent world . as mark leonard , director of the european council of foreign relations , put it , “ the conventional wisdom is that europe ’s hour has come and gone . its lack of vision , divisions , obsession with legal frameworks , unwillingness to project military power , and sclerotic economies contrasted with united states dominance even more than rome … . but the problem is not europe – our outdated understanding of power . ” the american political scientist andrew moravcsik makes a similar argument , which european nations , singly and collectively , have been the only states other than the american people , capable of “ exert global influence across the full spectrum , from ‘ hard ’ to ‘ soft ’ power . insofar as the term retained any meaning , the world is bipolar , and probably remains so over the foreseeable future . ”
tehran – iranians will go to the polls on june 12 to elect a new president . while some will argue that president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s reelection is a foregone conclusion , the outcome is , indeed , not at all clear . iran ’s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , has repeatedly stated in public settings that he will not declare a preference among candidates , either . indeed , in mashad on march 21 , ayatollah khamenei said , “ there are some rumors that i have supported some special presidential candidate . but i have one vote and would not identify some candidate because the people themselves should select their candidates based on the knowledge of them . ”
but this will compensate for the limits on personal tax deductions and exclusions , with the lower personal income-tax rate boosting taxable income as individuals raise earnings and compensation shifts from fringe benefits to taxable cash . moreover , moving to a territorial tax system will raise taxable profits , especially in the short run , as firms repatriate some of their existing overseas wealth stock . while the net tax changes may widen the fiscal deficit in the short term , the incentive effects of lower tax rates , and increasing capital accumulation will mean faster economic growth and higher real incomes , both of which cause rising taxable incomes and lower long-term deficits . there is an important legislative reason why projected budget deficits are returning to surplus . the republicans have only a very small majority in the senate , where the filibuster rule requires three-quarters to pass most legislation , giving democrats the power to impeach the republican tax agenda .
the eu also needs to reassert its operation sophia initiative to combat refugee smuggling in the mediterranean . second , europe needs to manage economic migrants and asylum-seekers separately . combining them has brought its asylum system to a close collapse ; separating them would help to ensure that those in fear of living in the future can be given fair hearing in which their rights are protected . addressing genuine economic and social needs in the eu will require an effective blue – or a green-card policy for economic migrants , with a comprehensive immigration target . and policymakers must not wait until another migration crisis before the scheme is implemented .
will the fed ’s gradual reduction of qe bring with it more emerging-market trouble this year ? to what extent are today ’s conditions comparable to those triggered by the 1997 asian crisis , or other abrupt capital-flow reversals in previous decades ? emerging-market bulls point out that it lowered their public debt/gdp ratios significantly , giving them fiscal space for which they lacked in the past . but neither the mexican “ tequila crisis ” of 1994 nor the 1997 asian crisis stemmed from large public deficits . in both cases , attempts to defend a fixed exchange rate in the face of capital-flow reversals were a major factor , as was true in turkey , in the year prior to its currency collapse in february 2001 .
already , many people in their fifties and sixties would like to remain economically productive , perhaps working 20-30 hours per week . at the same time , younger people long for education , leisure , friends , and , crucially , to the bottom . the two desires can be fulfilled if societies allow older people to work more years and allow everyone to work fewer hours . one possibility is to move toward an average workweek of 25 hours and average work life , which extends up to 70 – and to even higher age if healthy life expectancy continues to soar . such a reform could take effect in just a few decades without slowing economic growth or reducing prosperity .
it is that commitment by which government is now tied to it . “ bouncing ” britain in the eu is simply inconceivable . in fact , british public opinion nowadays is so hostile , with the eu in general , and to europe in particular , a referendum could not win without massive government campaigns by persuasion . denmark ’s administration has done just that , and it appears that the danish public has brought about the idea that it can join the euro . prime minister tony blair apparently is convinced of the strategic desirability of joining the eu , but because a yes vote in a referendum now looks so implausible that he is unlikely to try .
the middle of scenarios considered by the intergovernmental panel on climate change projects that atmospheric co2 concentrations can reach nearly triple their pre-industrial levels by 2100 . whereas the bush administration remains skeptical about science behind such projections , some state and local governments are enacting measures aimed at cutting co2 emissions . more important , companies , such as general electric , are committing to green goals going well beyond government regulations . a recent report by the bipartisan national energy policy commission exemplifies the new coalition . whereas president bush argues that technological advances in hydrogen fuel and fuel cells will limit long-term oil imports , such measures require major changes in transportation infrastructure , which will require many decades to get complete .
people in these fields ultimately bought , and sold by corporate managers in the same way that people in the tech field . hardly anyone makes all of the ways at which the business world ’s top is . an important point for students to bear in mind is that they should motivate themselves to achieve deep understanding , rather than rote memorization , of subjects they study to fulfill the role of a true expert in whatever field they ultimately pick to pursue . in the same time , they should invest in acquiring the communication skills that they will be similarly crucial for a successful career . achieving this type of education probably means pursuing what one naturally finds exciting and engaging , if it is finance and physiology .
but this day is also about spreading a message on behalf of elizabeth and other women like her : abortion , whereas in many countries a political wedge issue , simply is a life-long fact . every year , about 25 % of all pregnancies – around 56 million – expire . abortion occurs in every country and within every socioeconomic class . in the united states , 61 % of women in abortion patients in their twtwenties already do , and 59 % are already mothers ; nearly two-thirds identify with organized religion . but abortion is most common in the developing world , where access to family-planning services is often limited .
the ecb should not delude itself to reflect the small rise in interest rates on a relatively low level . if and when wage pressure comes , the ecb , to be left true to its word , may be forced to push interest rates up far more than it now expects . the other argument is that if the ecb stands firm , workers will not demand higher nominal wages because they understand that this alone will result in higher interest rates and higher levels of unemployment . this argument misses all but irrelevant ; monetary policy probably has some effect on wage bargaining . but one should not expect too much from a tough ecb stance .
megaupload enabled his 180 million registered users to upload and download movies , tv depicts and music , and some of the money that dotcom earned ( from advertising and subscriptions ) was on display near auckland , where he kept his rolls-royce and other exotic cars . dotcom ’s attorney claims that megaupload was merely providing storage to his subscribers ’ files , and that no check on which they store . but megaupload offered cash rewards to users who uploaded files which proved popular with the other users . last month , the united states considered legislation to stop internet piracy . bills were written on the urging of hollywood studios and recorded industries , which claim that copyright violations on the internet cost america 100,000 jobs .
moscow – when the opening ceremony of the beijing olympic games begins in just days , viewers will be presented with an minutely choreographed spectacle swadered by nationalist kitsch . of course , pictures that recall hitler ’s goose-stepping storm troopers are just the final thing china ’s leaders have in mind for their olympics ; after all , official chinese nationalism proclaims the country ’s “ peaceful rise ” within an idyll of “ harmonious development . ” but , by choosing albert speer jr. , the parallel is hardly far-fetched . indeed , by electing albert speer jr. , the son of hitler ’s favorite architect and designer of the 1936 berlin olympics in order to design a master plan for the beijing games , china ’s government has itself alluded to the radical politicization of aesthetics , which has been a hallmark of twentieth-century totalitarianism . like these regimes , whether fascist or communist , china ’s leaders have sought to convert public space and sporting events into visible evidence about fitness and mandate for rule .
if anything , economists ’ embrace of this role has grown stronger ever since . but it has also made the subject less relevant and diminished its legitimacy and credibility . economists no longer see much of the public question to ask , or are looking for the right questions . to recover credibility , economics needs to become more open to criticism of assumptions , methods , and outcomes . inconvenient truths speak for dissenting voices can not simply be ignored indefinitely .
reckoning with a psychologically unstable president , plutocratic cabinet and a republican congressional majority is at hand . europe is in the throes of multiple economic , social , political , and institutional crises . on the other hand , china is dynamic and outward-looking – providing good reason for the eu to assume vigorous leadership and engage in constructive partnerships with china on key initiatives ( such as sustainable infrastructure across eurasia ) . in short , this poses a critical time for germany and europe to deliver vision , stability , and global leadership . and that imperative extends back to german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the spd .
in keeping with china ’s recent efforts to project its “ soft side ” ( elu ) side , the opening ceremony produced an idea of historic but dynamic culture at its best . other than that of the few people ’s liberation army soldiers , you would have been hard pressed to find any visible evidence of the reigning communist regime or its founder , mao zedong . just as significant was china ’s projection as nascent leader of a new international cultural order . the “ bird nest ” stadium was the creation of a multinational design team by herzog & de meuron , with proposals from the visual artist ai weiwei . the many artists involved in the spectacle ’s creation , including fireworks specialist cai keqiang , france ’s star shen wei , and the composer tan dun , earned their fame mainly at the west .
my research , which included thousands of interviews with women from india and burkina faso , has centered on one question : how can the international community improve the well-being of some of the world ’s poorest women ? the answer , it turns out , is to help them do their own . one of the most potent ways women empower anywhere , but especially in the developing world , is by promoting financial independence . in many areas , that means supporting the “ informal savings groups , ” networks of like-minded women paying dues to build the shared pool of resources . this money can then be attracted to fund any number of items , such as small business expenses , school-related fees , or health-care costs .
so a summit outcome was far from a miracle . what really mattered in heiligendamm were not decisions taken on by any putative world government , but of now the reality that the g8 days seem numbered . politically and economically , the eu and china are more important today than some europeans . indeed , europeans should understand that this viewpoint is spreading around the world , especially on the other side of the atlantic . president putin ’s behavior at the summit clearly demonstrated what it thinks about europeans ; not too big .
african leaders are right to be concerned with this . though the eu asserts that the epas will buttress the afcfta , preliminary research indicates that the epas trade gains brought by it are likely to be centered on a few agricultural products – and exclude the least-developed countries . in most areas , epas will in fact hurt intra-african trade , weakening trade revenues , and undermining trade-driven industrialization in africa . some argue that the problem is more about timing , because the losers are likely to materialize immediately and the possible benefit brought by increased eu market access will take longer to emerge . given this , epa proponents argue , the special fund should be established to compensate for some of the short-run losses .
for example , in 1995 , the smithsonian institution in washington , an institution of inquiry in order to consider the enola gay , a plane that had dropped its atomic bomb on hiroshima . john dower , an american historian and specialized in modern japan , studied the issue at length . he demonstrated how history can be presented and appreciated in totally different ways : from an “ american or japanese point ” of view , even if nobody produces the facts or falsifying sources . selection and combination of data are enough . to the americans , there were “ a heroic or triumphant account , in which atomic bombs represent the ultimate blow against the aggressive , fanatic , and savage enemy . ”
it would need to cobbled together at the october 17 meeting of the council of europe , where european leaders are growing increasingly frustrated with the whole process . moreover , johnson has already disbanded the civil-service team that has led previous negotiations . any new arrangement will be may ’s old deal with a few bells and whistles . it will push the real issues down the road , rather than ending the brexit debate . that show has years to come .
likewise , our inability to come together to stop syrian president bashar al-assad ’s war crimes against his own people left the void that putin and iran have filled . european leaders too often shout on the sidelines when they should be on the field , acting to defend common european interests . and , as if our inability to ensure stability in our own neighborhood was not enough , the us also allowed right-wing populist and nationalist movements to take off within europe itself . these movements , actively fomented in russia , have produced homegrown political leaders who frighteningly – but not surprisingly – resemble putin and erdoğan . poland ’s de facto leader , jarosław kaczyński , and hungarian prime minister viktor orbán , mainly busily constructing illiberal states within the eu , have been busily building illiberal .
a common framework must also be created to scale up such programs and implement in different contexts . delivering benefits “ points , ” for example , rather than money denominated in a particular currency would enable regimes to operate across borders in a time when workers increasingly need to do the same . and standardized educational credentials would retain value as they move with those who earned them . as the nature of work change , so the nature of beneficial systems must be the nature of the benefits system . to deliver opportunities and security to everyone everywhere , at an time of widespread technological distortions , governments and private-sector actors must work together to advance innovative solutions that meet the urgent , evolving needs of their workers .
moreover , even without an early correction , brazil will react to crisis in the far opposite direction that mexico has . rightly or wrongly in the us , mexican policymakers have been in awe with wall street ; brazil has no such hang on . ultimately , brazilian policymakers are uneasy for their own well , not with foreign investors ’ prosperity . if and when the two parts do , brazilian policymakers shed few tears for the international investors . on the surface and below , brazil has made a dramatic turn : inflation down to negligible levels .
by incorporating carbon-reduction strategies into agricultural and land conservation , more heat-trapping gases can and must be locked in forests and soils . but , while techniques already exist , success will require increasing no-till farming , adopting permaculture principles , improved management of wetlands , and applying rotational grazing techniques among other measures . the power of markets to drive radical changes in energy and land use is great , but as storms of 2017 should remind us , we face a vigorous and urgent climate emergency that requires vigorous and urgent action . transforming how people acquire and consume energy , and use land to do so will require strong incentives and policy frameworks to set the course for success . but do not despair : there is still time to save our climate , and we are still working to address the climate .
many democratic candidates have called for a major extension of government-funded health care . but their proposals , including a single-payer scheme ( “ medicare for all ” ) , the national health-care service ( medicare ) , or something else , do not all mean the same thing . several contenders – including bernie sanders , elizabeth warren , kamala harris , and beto o’rourke – agree entirely about the details of such regimes or simply have not spelled them out . but after former president barack obama attempted to fix the american health catastrophe with half-measures – arguably the most politically feasible in a time , those vying for the democratic nomination clearly have more ambitious plans . meanwhile , warren has proposed instituting universal childcare , funded by the wealth tax on fortunes above $ 50 million .
but there is another explanation , one that is perfectly in terms of rationality and self-interest . when mainstream politicians lose credibility , it is natural for voters to discount the promises they make . voters are more likely to be attracted to anti-establishment candidates and can safely be expected to depart from prevailing policy . in the language of economists , centrist politicians face the problem of asymmetric information . in the name of reformers , they argue , but why should voters believe leaders who seem no different from the previously crop of politicians over-sold them to gain from globalization and “ tobin ” their grievances ?
today , leaders in rwanda widely thought africa to have improved stability by moving away from a washington consensus approach to governance . politically , rwanda is powerful , disciplined , and organized . president paul kagame ’s landslide reelection last year was more forced to exercise power than it was in a democracy . although kagame remains popular in the world , his government was criticized for stifling free speech and human rights in the run-up to the vote . the conclusion i draw is not that human rights do not matter , but because political discipline and imperfect forms of democracy are acceptable if the tradeoff is sustained progress toward economic and institutional governance .
cross-border flows of goods , information , people , and capital that their lifeblood rely on a safety threshold , stability , and predictability , among others . it is this threshold that seems to be under threat . continued economic progress in the developing world and recovery in the developed world , requires preventing local and regional conflict from delivering large systemic shocks . in terms of priorities , it is arguably more urgent for g-20 governments to strengthen core systems that enable global flows than it is to address strictly economic issues . moreover , there is some clear , shared interest in doing this : nobody benefits from expanding systemic risk .
washington , dc – participants of occupy wall street movement are right to argue that big banks have never been properly investigated for the mortgage lobbying , aggregation , and securitization behavior that has been central to the financial crisis – along with the loss of more than eight million jobs . but , thanks to efforts by the new york attorney general eric schneiderman and others , serious discussion has begun in the united states about the out-pricing of court mortgage settlements among state attorney general and prominent financial-sector firms . talks among state officials , the obama administration , and banks currently focus on reported abuses to service the mortgages , foreclosing on homes , and evicting their residents . but leading banks are also accused of illicit behavior – inducing the people to borrow to , for example , by deceiving them about the interest rate that would actually have to be paid at the time , while misrepresenting the resulting mortgage-backed securities to investors . when these charges are true , bank executives involved may fear that civil lawsuits uncover evidence that might be used in criminal prosecutions
“ over rivers and down highways , and along the countless jungle paths , the population of east pakistan continues bleeding in india : an unending unorganized flow of refugees with a handful of tin kettles , cardboards boxes , and ragged clothing piled on their heads , carrying sick children and old . they pad along barefooted , with mud sucking at their heels in the wet sections . they are silent , except for a baby whimpering now and then faces a telling story . many are sick and covered by sores , and many of them are now suffering from cholera , when they die by the roadside . ” others have cholera , and when a roadside dies , there can be no bury . ”
charges of currency manipulation and protectionist threats intensified . with the uk having given world free trade in the 1840s having now decided to go it alone , the old atlantic charter allies are putting national sovereignty ahead of global public goods . now the global spotlight is turning to france and its looming presidential race . there is a growing franco-german engine that has powered european integration , maintaining it at the center of the post-war multilateral system . a le pen victory in early may would spell the end of the eu , leave german chancellor angela merkel ’s final pillar of a crumbling global order .
new york – when i was a bright-eyed eighth grader in my homeland , sri lanka , i could not wait for my first sex education class . in our infancy , my classmates and i were as curious as we were clueless about sex and sexuality . yet , instead of receiving reliable answers to pressing questions about our bodies , relationships , and sexuality , we were simply handed a book , told to read a specific chapter , leaving to figure things out on our own . millions of young people around the world have similar experiences , often with serious adverse consequences . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year 's selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . regardless of how facebook ’s own digital-currency moonshot , libra , fares , it has already given a wake-up call by firms and policymakers worldwide . as long as revolution has to be introduced , let us rather commit it than undergo it , ” otto von bismarck once said that .
four decades after the “ nixon shock , ” no one disputes that china benefited enormously today , an impoverished and autarkic country that nixon visited is history . the global reintegration has transformed china into an economic powerhouse . it is the world ’s largest exporter in volume . china ’s presence comes to the feeling around the world , from mines in africa to apple stores in the united states . like we reflect on china ’s spectacular progress since 1972 , so is an opportune time to consider how china continues to fall short in overcoming systemic impediments to long-term success .
a significant chinese slowdown may already unfold . american president donald trump ’s trade war has shaken confidence , but that this represents a mere downward push to an economy that is already slowing as it makes the shift away from export-led – and investment-led growth to an even more sustainable domestic consumption-led growth path . how much the chinese economy will slowly be open to the question , but given the inherent clash between an increasingly centralized party-led political system and the need for a more decentralized consumer-led economic system , long-term growth could decline quite dramatically . unfortunately , the option of avoiding the consumer-led transition and continuing to stimulate exports and real-estate investment is not very attractive – either . china is already a dominant world exporter and there is neither a market space nor a political tolerance to allow it to sustain its previous pace of export-oriented expansion .
the arab world is facing major problems that can be met only through more flexible , democratic political systems . the second arab human development report , issued in 2003 , underscores the close ties of the arab world ’s educational shortcomings and the lack of democracy . democracy requires an informed citizenry able to question its government . a well-educated citizenry is essential , too , as long as young men and women acquire the skills required to perform today ’s global , competitive world demands . sadly , instead of progress , what we see is a cycle of inadequate educational opportunity that is driving the lack of economic opportunity .
the us president has threatened to destroy turkey ’s economy if this allowed it to do whatever it has enabled . with kurds – most of them civilians – fleeing turkish bombs , the un security council has typically remained silent , while the europeans have condemned everything and every person participating . as foreign-policy disasters go , this is one for the record books . but the seeds for this bigger conflagration have been sown long before the now-infamous trump-erdoğan call . absent any coherent policy , the terms are ripe for a crisis .
but a “ uyghter-money ” program – the fanciful idea when milton friedman proposed it in 1969 – would also be a radical departure for policymakers , requiring an abundance of cautious public and investor perceptions and confidence , and robust governance structures . and such an approach would cement the notion that central bank policy is “ the only game in town , ” relieving elected government leaders of the liability for pro-growth policies and the fiscal decisions they control . a less risky and time-tested route to stimulating demand would be a major surge in debt-financed public infrastructure investment . it is well documented that , in the long run , europe and the united states are underinvesting in infrastructure . from the macroeconomic perspective , infrastructure investment is a “ twofer ” – it reinforces productivity and competitiveness – and has long run , where unused capacity is available , boosts demand , output , and employment with substantial multiplier effects .
with the government losing $ 4.5 billion a year by subsidizing passenger fares , it has little money to spend on upgrading infrastructure , improving safety standards , or speeding train trains . as a result , railways run out of money , rather than running out of plans . over the past 30 years , only 317 of these 676 projects , sanctioned by parliament , ended in may , and it is hard to imagine how the railroads will acquire an estimated $ 30 billion that are needed to complete the remaining 359 projects . and , if all this was bad enough , india ’s leadership seems unable to recognize the challenges that railways present . in a country without a railway car , let alone on-time arrival , prime minister narendra modi has spoken of introducing bullet trains – the most recent in a string of irrationally grandiose aspirations .
under federalism – whether cooperative or “ un-cooperative ” – state and local governments often assume the same goals . in fact , there is a deep divide between left-leaning “ blue ” cities and right-leaning “ red ” states , where many reside . and there are many ways that state governments can thwart progressive federalism at municipal levels . cities , for their part , often lack the information and resources necessary to develop and implement effective policies . a few organizations have now emerged to strengthen urban governments ’ policy-making capacities , including michael bloomberg ’s governmental innovation program , fuse corps , results for america , social finance , third sector capital partners , and usafdeeds .
we need to look beyond these figures to identify who is truly responsible for fomenting a political climate , where blatant lies and explicit racism and bigotry have entered the mainstream of public discourse . only when we identify the sources of the odious virus are now afflicting our democracies can we take practical steps to quarantine them . let ’s start with a “ patient zero ” in this political plague : rupert murdoch . for decades , this impresario of right-to-entertainment complex has coarsened politics across the uk and the us – not to mention his native australia – for profit and political clout . murdoch ’s newspapers and tv networks might just have as patented the deceitful recipe , dog-whistle politics that powered trump ’s rise and brexit vote .
