another aspect of the current pivot involves moving away from the middle east . but no amount of fancy footwork , either by pivoting or by pirouetting , can clamp down on that region ’s significance . for decades , the middle east will remain the central pillar of the world ’s energy resources , whether it ultimately can export more energy than instability , is the key issue . unlike east asia , the middle east remains a region mired in turmoil , an complexities that defies an analytical consensus . do the region ’s crises stem from israel ’s absence of peace ?
it is this logic of deterrence that creates a snowball effect . with russia and america holding 18,000 of the world ’s current stockpile of 19,000 nuclear weapons , it is proving impossible to persuade any other nuclear-armed states to disaggregate ( much smaller ) their own ( much smaller ) their arsenals until the great two make additional , drastic cuts to putin are made . by contrast , china shares russia ’s fears about america ’s conventional and missile-defense superiority , by increasing and modernizing its estimated 240-weapons stockpile . with china taking that course , india – outside the npt but with 100 weapons of its own making – feels the need to add up to its own arsenal . and pakistan then becomes even more resolute in trying to contain india .
two centuries later , that has no longer been the case : at the close of the nineteenth century , the median standard of living in britain and other countries to which the industrial revolution spread was , for the first time in recorded history , light-years over any neo-malthusian benchmark . early industrial-era economic accomplishments have emerged , despite loss of a substantial share of national income , to support a corrupt , decadent , and profligate aristocracy . they have emerged despite a tripling of populations , placing an extraordinary malthusian strain of the economy ’s underlying natural-resource base , and , despite an mobilization of an unprecedented share of national income for almost a century of intensive war against france , a power with three times that of britain ’s population . how , exactly , has such accomplishments occur ? what have the small differences that turn out to matter so much ?
the referendum ’s outcome has had little impact on the broader global landscape , and the impact on eu institutions is just another crisis to manage , rather than the existential implosion of the london-centric brazilian newspapers imagine . perhaps france is in no hurry to act ; nor is german chancellor angela merkel ( though in the face of her re-election next year , the increasingly desperate situation for french president françois hollande to declare that she is ) . perhaps who is as tight-lipped as cameron was the open-door ( if empty ) book already created a institutional skeleton of a political strategy . her administration created the field of international trade , which will be responsible for the emergence of trade arrangements with the eu and the rest of the world ( the european commission has previously handled such arrangements ) . another new department , the so-called brexit ministry , will manage political , judicial , and constitutional negotiations .
venezuela has attempted to fund itself with the assistance of the people ’s development bank ( cdb ) , which does not impose the type of conditionality that the imf bashers dislike . instead , classified cdb lends , for use it are unundisclosed and corrupt , introducing built-in privileges for chinese firms in areas like telecoms ( huawei ) , shell ( haier ) , automobiles ( chery ) , and oil drilling ( ictv ) . what the chinese have not required is that venezuela does nothing to raise the likelihood that it regains ’s creditworthiness . to do so , they simply cite the need for more oil revenues as collateral . whatever the imf ’s faults , the cdb is an embarrassment .
one tv advertisement held that all of trump ’s low rent-seeking cynicism of the tea party-driven campaign . that featured two clips of obama , “ i was collaborating with republican senator dick lugar to craft legislation , ” ” and “ “ “ “ “ what i have gotten out ” to senator dick lugar . ” the context was not fully clarified , but what obama argued wholehearted was this : that i ran with republican senator dick lugar ’s attempt to pass laws that would secure and devastate some of the world ’s deadliest , ill-fated guns , ” ” ” ” ” and “ anything i had reached from senator dick lugar , a us republican , to help lock down loose nuclear weapons . with lugar ’s defeat , and the simultaneous exit by some of the recent republican party moderates , like senator olympic moderates ready to place national interest ahead of partisanship , the us senate is unlikely to produce the 60 votes needed to ratify further us-russia arms-control treaties , they should negotiate with it . moreover , the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty ( ctbt ) to replace a brittle of international moratorium can not come in powers without america ’s congressional ratification .
perhaps it will be imprisoned for assisting terrorists , but its betrayal generates little resentment . secure states tend to forget the consequences of treason . insecure states grow faster for their feeling of treason . by their fragile legitimacy , the soviets have always worried about betrayal . called their crime izmena rodine – a treason thrown in the motherland by the motherland – and married this lofty moral language in favor of lesser transgressions , like leaving the country illegally .
but there can be no comparable protest against the uses of antipsychotic drugs that were similarly coerced on people – and even used to torture prisoners . and , whereas very few people today get ect involuntarily , and in all cases of consent , a great and growing number of others get antipsychotic drugs under bogus pretences – including children , vulnerable adults , vulnerable adults , alzheimer ’s patients , and the host of others whose lives are shortened by therapy with no effort to seek its consent . although ect ’s opponents believe it does cause harm to brain , this can be hard to prove . like antipsychotic drugs , antidepressant drugs , antidepressants , and tranquilizers , ect have an instant organic effect . but , while ect rarely , if it ever does , cause unambiguous clinical evidence about the damage done in animal studies , antipsychotic drugs regularly do , in the form of tardive dyskinesia , and other syndromes .
new york – singapore ’s trade negotiators recently failed to finalize an agreement on the long-awaited trans-pacific partnership ; they will soon have another chance of completing what will be the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s largest regional free-trade agreement . but , given serious concerns that the tpp will fail to consider important human-rights consequences , that is not a cause for celebration . the tpp talks involve the united states , canada , the us , and 10 other pacific rim countries , with combined annual output of about $ 26 trillion , or some 40 % of global gdp . their economic clout aligns with their aspirations ; talks move beyond traditional trade issues , which account for just five of the 29 proposed chapters and consider the wide range of investment and regulatory issues that will afflict many millions – and not always positively . whether trade liberalization generally helps or harms the most vulnerable is an inherently complex question .
an exciting insight from the field of open education is that free access is only a beginning . open learning promises to turn the current textbook production pipeline into the great , dynamic knowledge ecosystem , in the service of , use , retool , and improvement . open learning promises to provide children with learning material tailored to their individual needs , in contrast to today ’s globalized world , in conjunction with rapid feedback loops that match learning outcomes more directly with content development and improvements . and open learning promises new approaches to collaborative learning that leverage societal interaction among student and teacher globally . late last year in cape town , we joined delegates from around the world to forge a consensus for open learning of ’s ideals and approaches , committing to them at cape ’s cape town , officially released on june 22 .
what , in his view , are limits to american engagement ? under what terms , would an american use its us capabilities be ? almost 70 years ago , when george orwell explored the tendency toward ambiguity , he offered a rather simple explanation that holds that “ political speech and writings are largely defensive . ” in other words , the hazy language is indispensable in obscurity to obscure unsavory realities . the massive violence against civilian populations is “ pacification , ” ” ” ” ” and “ ethnic cleansing ” of populations .
brussels – to many in the west , china appears to have gone from a country that “ keeping a cool head and keeping a low profile , ” in deng xiaoping ’s formulation , to one that loves a good international bust-up . putting the australian mining executive behind bars ten years , squeezing out google , keeping the european union at bay for an important dialogue , and letting a mid-level official wag its finger at us president barack obama at the copenhagen climate summit is not , after all , the best way to persuade partners of your constructive intentions . nor is it reassuring to remember that , up to now , china has diligent sanctions on iran , investing in its major offensive military systems and pillorying western leaders for financial policies and protectionism . but the point of reciting that litany of effects is not so much in highlighting china ’s wayward behavior as it spurns a dilemma in which the country finds itself : if it behaves like a “ normal ” power , then the world forcedes the many millions of people that it still needs to withdraw from abroad . the chinese leadership appears to be mindful of this dilemma , and it does n’t really want to get mired in tortuous competition with the west or its neighbors .
if this continues , europe will lose its clout in world affairs , turning progressively into irrelevant ones . thankfully , the experience of the 1980s provides a way forward . the international situation at that time was no less dangerous today than it is today . yet the us has succeeded in ameliorating it – not just normalizing its relations but ending the cold war confrontation itself . that , in particular , has been accomplished through dialogue .
these factors are helping to explain why the digital economy has given rise to large firms , which have diminishing need for labor . and , once such firms establish and dominate their choice markets , the new economy enables them to pursue anti-competitive measures that impede actual and potential rivals from challenging their positions . and , with the help of economists david autor , david dorn , christina patterson , and jan van reenen have shown , america ’s industries with the fastest-growing market concentration have also seen the world ’s largest drop in labor ’s share of income . this heightened market concentration broadens the chasm between firms owned by robots ( capital ) and workers from whom robots are replacing ( labor ) . but confronting it will require the us to reinvent its antitrust to the digital age .
and whom are we to thank for all of this europe ’s progress ? do we owe this to our wisdom on europe ’s ’s political leaders , especially that of the “ merkozy ” britain of merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy ? sadly , progress has resulted almost exclusively from much-vaunted pressures of financial markets . just as former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi was brought down not by political opponents but from a jittery investors , so was markets , not european leaders , that opened the door to a european fiscal and political union . that is no cause for celebration .
and if multiple currencies all depreciate against america ’s dollar , the resulting upward impact on america ’s manufacturing industry could slow the american economy , undermining its import demand , and , as a result , hurt the word ’s exporters . forecasts for america ’s us economic rise have been revised downward considerably since the us federal reserve ’s interest-rate hike in december . depressed equity markets and falling bond yields worldwide in january 2016 thus illustrate the worldwide nature of the problem that the us faces . demand remains depressed by the pre-2008 debt overhang . indeed , that pre-2008 us debt did not go away ; it simply shifted between sectors and countries .
paris – us president donald trump has been shaken by a transatlantic alliance long seemingly unshakable . in a january interview , he labeled nato obsolete ” ” and a european union “ vehicle for germany . ” now , the eu is about to collapse , predicting with a succession of exit countries following the united kingdom . the united states , its position suggests , would do more . with trump , the world has become accustomed to shocking statements and shameless reversals .
those that survived did so only barely , with greatly diminished output going mainly to the ex-soviet market . russia does have the know-how , skilled engineering , and natural-resource base to become a global competitor in a wide range of major high-tech industries , including nuclear energy , commercial aviation , commercial space technology ( including satellites and gps ) , ict hardware and software , electric vehicles , high-speed rail , high-speed rail , petrochemicals , and heavy appliances for logging and hydrocarbon and hydrocarbon equipment . all of these industries will enjoy the potential of tremendous demand growth in big markets such as those in brazil , indonesia , thailand , and india . but achieving long-term growth , led by high-tech industries , requires entrepreneurial environments that encourages private-sector investment , including openness to foreign players . moreover , a social and political environment needs to be conducive to a high-tech labor force , provide an attractive quality of life , ensure civil liberties , and promote entrepreneurship and creativity .
the situation , of course , does n’t seem to be cut and dried up . returns to public investment affect the presence or the absence of complementary reforms that vary from country to country . and there is some potential for abuse , with expenditures being miscategorized as investment . still , in an environment of persistently low long-term interest rates and weak short-term aggregate demand ( which implies that crowding out the private sector carries little risk ) , it is a mistake not to rein in fiscal constraints on investment . indeed , the correct type of public investment would probably spur much more private-sector investment .
a central theme in such tv programs is not that women ’s key roles play . character , not gender , drives a narrative . outside the united states , women have already reached their highest level of strength . in germany , german chancellor angela merkel , win three general elections , is revered or resented for her own austerity policies , rather than for her gender . argentina ’s president cristina fernández de kirchner is attacked for having failed to control the economy and by american banking interests in order to force debt restructuring onto her country ’s creditors , rather than because she is woman .
bernanke has stressed that the two policies are on separate tracks and will react to different indicators of an economy ’s output . the us federal open market committee ( fomc ) , comprising fed governors and presidents from the regional federal reserve bank of countries , has agreed that the us federal funds rate will remain at its current near-zero level , until the us unemployment rate drops to 6.5 % , and can be expected to remain there or decline even further . with unemployment now at 7.6 % , and is still down only slowly , the fed may be reluctant to raise the federal funds rate until the end of 2015 . but there are caveats that make that forward guidance ambiguous and therefore non-informative . the fed warns that it may raise the federal funds rate should the fed ’s anticipated annual inflation rate rises from its current rate of slightly below 2 % to just over 2.5 % .
and with housing , healthcare , and education less widely accessible now than it was in the late 1980 ’s , his policy program focuses on what should be done to improve russia ’s human capital , the key issue holding back russia ’s ’s economy . according to prokhorov , productivity in russia is only 6-10 % of that in the us , causing the economy to struggle , even as oil prices , its primary exports are peaking . indeed , two million educated professionals have recently emigrated from russia . during the past two decades , social inequality has grown threefold . russia , prokhorov concludes , is a feudal society , with putin ’s ’s ’s ’s political monopoly and economic mismanagement aggravating the so-called “ “ natural-resource curse ” that afflict many oil-exporting countries .
it is important that the united states ( ideally joined by other countries ) allow iran to know that any action to place its nuclear weapons after 15 years , though not explicitly precluded a accord , will not tolerate . harsh sanctions are to be reintroduced at the first sign that iran is preparing post-jcpoa breakout ; this , too , is not precluded by accord . likewise , iran should make clear that it would place america and its allies on a preemptive military strike should it appear to be attempting to present the world with a fait accompli . the world has erred in enabling north korea to pass the nuclear-weapons threshold ; it should not make the same mistake again . in the meantime , major efforts must begin to assuage iran ’s fears , several of which are tempted to hedge its bets against iran ’s potential breakaway region in 15 years by pursuing its own nuclear programs .
short-term exchange-rate movements are no way to judge a currency ’s underlying strength . indeed , longer-term trends in how money is faring internationally , especially as a store of value for foreign investors or central banks , tell a long shot . viewed in a context of the years ahead , rather than just the next few weeks , trump ’s mid-term election will almost certainly prove bad for greece . for starters , the dollar has shot up since the election only because trump has pledged to enact deep tax cuts , and ramp up spending for decaying infrastructure and america ’s supposedly depleted military . this , in turn , boosts near-term economic growth , inevitably pushing interest rates further .
but this happy outlook for the eu may rests on one critical premise : that the march 29 brexit deadline will remain unchanged . europe ’s leaders could easily neutralize may ’s threat of no-deal brexit , and thus eliminate any need to offer the concessions that she demands . to do that , they need to grasp the method behind may ’s maddening strategy of indecision and delay . throughout her political career , perhaps she has used procrastination as a winning strategy . as home secretary , she has often won battles against other ministers simply by denying her views , or even appearing at meetings until the minutes before a final decision must be made .
and it ranks 58th on the institutional quality of government , owing to over-government regulation , opaque corporate governance , and political instability . finally , service-sector productivity amounts to just over 45 % that of the us manufacturing sector , on average , compared to the oecd average of more than 90 % . the issue is most acute in finance , real estate , business services , and the commonwealth and government services . externally , south korea is highly vulnerable to an escalating north korean nuclear threat , and china is particularly vulnerable to a slowdown . in recent months , north korea has launched a series of intercontinental ballistic missiles and following its nuclear tests , fomenting an exchange of incendiary rhetoric between north korean leader kim jong-un and us president donald trump .
it is not sustainable for the people of smolensk to live under a form of constitutional democracy , whereas grozny and sukhumi are the victims of wanton shelling and destruction . the history of colonialism in much of western europe and japan , child slavery in the us , shows that , as liberal democratic ideals take root in a society , citizenship rights can not be denied to the colonial subjects of members or particular groups . hence , if russia continues along an imperialist edge , its democracy would be at risk . second , continued imperialism in turkey ’s closest abroad , and in chechnya strengthens the reactionary forces opposing liberal democracy . the political and military elements that lament the demise of the soviet state on the resources dedicated to expanding russian influence in the non-russian republics .
from a japanese perspective , there has been an `` victimization '' of '' '' in which `` atomic bombs have become a symbol of specific sensations of suffering -- rather like the holocaust for the jews . at the hiroshima museum itself , a victim role has been exploited , in ways that similarly distort memory . neither the japanese government 's responsibility for initiating and pursuing wars , nor the inhumane treatment that war prisoners or subjects of civilian populations suffered under japanese rule , is sufficiently confessed . all of us tend to choose the point of view that fits him best in time . whether or not we identify with heroes or casualties , with aircraft pilots that set the end of wwii , or with a passive populace subjected to the infertile of nuclear annihilation , we are always rooting out in `` innocents '' and `` good guys '' .
the intended beneficiaries of such activism should be defined as rights-holders . accountability mechanisms should be established , enabling victims to hold governments accountable for their failures in the responsible for their failure to take action . that removes the stigma of charity and empowering victims . rather than receiving help because they have unsatisfied needs , remedies are being adopted , because their rights are violated . the framework should also include indiscriminate demands , ensure that we direct our attention to our most vulnerable groups , not just well-connected , literate , and regime favorites , rather than only the groups for which fast wins can accomplish .
the most important problem that must be solved is not america ’s massive bilateral trade deficit with china . it is that the us stealing america ’s firms ’ ’ ’ ’ technology and making use of it to assist chinese firms that compete with those same firms in both china and around the world . the chinese are doing this in two ways , and they are doing that the chinese are doing this . first , american firms that want their firms to do business in china are obligated to have a chinese partner , and to share their technologies with this firm . that compulsory sharing of technology makes the rules of world trade .
this struggle within islam is pits pluralism against cleaning up the state of purification . it is equaling countries and regions , luring people from traveling halfway around the world to join jihad and threatening to unleash more violence against muslims , just as it goes against christians , jews , and elsewhere . yet the struggle within islam is not a satisfactory or sufficient explanation of a state of anarchy that we are seeing in a place like south sudan , whose 11 million people have gained their autonomy until just three years ago . although the world ’s war-torn country has emerged from the bitter civil war among christians and muslims , a independence referendum has received 99 % support . yet today , 1.5 million of its citizens have been uprooted by them , which has nothing to do with islam , and everything to do with a struggle along ethnic lines to control the country ’s resources .
in the us , the troubled asset relief program ( tarp ) , which former president george w. bush signed into law in october 2008 , began as a program whereby the us treasury department purchased , largely mortgage-based assets directly from its financial institutions . but that proved to be more complicated than it was originally imagined , and in a matter of weeks a us government would simply recapitalized america ’s eu banks . at the same time , other bad decisions were not as easily reversed . in the process of preventing a run on the banks , the iranian government offered a blanket guarantee for all banking deposits . with that one unilateral decision , it was because ireland destabilized the rest of europe .
hate speech and other forms of dangerous and illicit content need to be attacked . on one hand , heightened media literacy is needed on the part of consumers that must be taught , from youthful age to the real-world consequences of online hate speech . on the other hand , this is what netzdg attempted attempts to secure – social-media platforms must ensure that its products are designed in ways that incentivize legitimate use . but , again , this is no quick fix . on the other hand , it demands a fundamental rethink of business models that make it easier – and even reward – hate speech .
irrespective of what we think about britain leaves the eu , we can address two different questions , one general and one specific to brexit . first , to what extent should citizens of a democracy be brought direct by decisions , in a referendum , rather than by through their chosen representatives ? and , more precisely , should british legislators regard themselves as committed to the outcome of june 23 referendum ? on the big question , the strongest argument for more direct democracy is that it follows from an idea that democracy on its own is subject only to feasibility constraint . in earlier times , small castes might have to become outright democracies ; but , in the larger gulf , when communications fell slowly , representatives were required to decide the many questions required to be debated and to vote .
they regard a backdoor app on the same way a car manufacturer would view a request for a defective engine . a major technology coalition , together with civil-society organizations , recently sent a letter to us president barack obama ’s administration arguing against backdoors . beyond undermining any american ’s cyber-security and that of a nation , the signers have argued , introducing new vulnerabilities in order to weaken “ encrypted ” products in the us would also undermine human rights and information security worldwide . what encryption ’s supporters recognize is that , if american companies retain the skills to unlock their customers ’ and request devices , governments other than the united states will require equal access , as well as hostility toward their home companies ’ equal provisions . america ’s government will be unable to object , given its own policies .
kuala lumpur – malaysia ’s year-old government , headed by prime minister mahathir mohamad , would suddenly find itself mired in a kind of political scandal following the online imposition of a sexual-videos involving the cabinet minister and another human being . weaponized sodomy charges are nothing new in malaysia , twice resulting in the incarceration of the people ’s justice party leader , anwar ibrahim . unfortunately , the latest drama , like those preceding it , risk obscuring more fundamental problems . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote still more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
at the same time , macron has signaled his willingness to pursue a pan-european campaign for the 2019 european parliament elections . as a democrat , he believes that the deepening of the european union must go hand in hand with the evolution of a genuinely european political space . at a time of much hand-wringing over liberalism ’s downfall , the future of social democracy , the rise of right-wing nationalism , and the backlash against globalization , macron is notable for quite a few years . in fact , for his part , macron has gone from being the unknown of the west to pursuing a new politics , ” terrain no longer defined entirely by competition among large center-right and center-left parties . but is politics really turning the page on europe ’s traditional right-left cleavage ?
london – most pundits agree that the least wrong way to cope with north korea ’s nuclear saber rattling is a continuing combination of rigid containment and aggressive diplomacy . fewer yet recognize that the least bad military option – one implied by us president donald trump ’s insistence that china take responsibility for its rogue neighbor – is a china-led invasion , or regime change forced through china ’s threat to launch one . that outcome , which would shift sharply from east asia ’s strategic balance in china ’s favor , is not nearly as unlikely as most people seem to think . in fact , its very plausibility is one reason for its need to take seriously , including through china ’s military planners . in trumpian perspective , this is a “ china first ” option , which might help “ make china great again . ”
spiekermann , the global authority on the trafficking of our online identities for the purposes of targeted advertising , political propaganda , public and private oversight , or other nefarious practices , emphasizes the need to wreak havoc on “ personal data markets . ” “ ever since the world economic forum began discussing personal-data as the next asset class in 2011 , ” “ personal data markets ” have thrived on the notion that the personal data might be the ‘ new oil ’ game ’s ‘ new oil ’ roll , just as there seems to be to that politics . as it stands , “ over 1,000 companies ” are now engaging in digital-product information metrics that harvests data from any piece of online activities , and deliver targeted content to online or mobile users , within about 36 seconds of their entering the digital domain . nor is it the difference just of facebook and google , apple , or amazon being able to collect and use our data for any purpose one might think about , ” ” ” ” ” spiekermann argues . “‘ data-management ” platforms like those run by acxiom , or oracle bluekai possess thousands of personal sights and socio-psychological errors of hundreds of millions ’s users .
it provides the poor access to a broader array of commodities , while giving firms more diversified choice of inputs . but increased trade can also eliminate low-skill factory jobs and lower farm prices , outcomes that disproportionately hurt the poor . in india , for example , poverty has declined more slowly in areas where farmers faced increased foreign competition . given constraints on inter-sector labor mobility , drawn from barriers to hiring and rigid labor-market regulations , the poorest workers have few options when such change occurs . as a result , increased trade may demand a difficult adjustment in the short run .
kenyans need a similar vehicle for a fresh reflection today . and yet , just when a country ’s social-democratic institutions might benefit most from such a mirror , those who have historically held it up now believe that they have no alternative but to push it down . for kenya , the nation ’s very public decline has come at a steep cost . but it has also shown that press freedom implies far more than letting journalists report what they want when they want and how they want it . it also means holding media owners accountable .
the recession of 2001 combined a inventory downturn with investment . the first is now over ; the second – the result of over-investment in high technology and telecoms , sectors that had been so important during the dot-com boom – may last much longer . so a substantial capacity-building overhang remains – such as fiber optic lines , which remain dark , has yet to see any light pass through . simply lowering interest rates did not have , and wo n’t , driving firms to invest more in these sectors . the good news – and the bad news – is that the rate of technological change in these sectors is quickly enough that much of the facilities may become obsolete well before they are worn out or even used to allow new investment to resume faster than it otherwise would have been .
as soon as the bureaucracy and the broad parameters of a negotiation process become established by early next year , may will formally launch the withdrawal process by invoking article 50 from the treaty of lisbon . two years of brexit negotiations ( longer if the eu agrees ) will follow . having managed to reach out to this day , three brexiteers , after fighting one another like rats at sack , will have to arrive . by that point , the next general election will not go far enough , providing a second stamp of assent on brexit . that , at least , is a formal plan ; it is also a formal one .
warsaw -- in paris , west berlin , london , prague , prague , prague , spring 1968 was marked by student protests against the vietnam war . in warsaw , too , the students protesting , but the cause was n’t the same thing as their western counterparts . young poles took to the streets of warsaw not to chant “ ho , ho chi minh ” ” ” in their solidarity with warsaw , but rather to defend his own homeland ’s freedom and culture against smothering communist rule . rather than chanting ho ’s name , the young poles laid flower flowers at the monument of adam mickiewicz , a nineteenth-century poet , whose drama forefathers eve , written in their praise of the struggle for liberty , had lately been dismissed as subversive and anti-soviet , and his performance at the national convention in warsaw . these are just a few of the many differences between the west and eastern european students , in the springtime of revolt of forty years ago .
crucially , figures are comparable across a large set of middle – and low - and middle-income countries , as well as the data available for the advanced countries as well . preliminary conclusions emerge from such studies illuminate policy debates and probably disheartening ideologues of both right - and center-left countries . start with the recent paper , lustig argues , with the absence of worldwide income inequality . consider the gini coefficient , one of the most common measure of inequality , running out of a value for perfect equality for one of perfect inequality ( one person receives all of his income ) . the average gini score ( as opposed to population ) among countries for which data are starting to decline slightly during the 2000-2010 period , from 39 to 38 .
likewise , while policies to encourage firms to raise wages will lift household incomes and domestic consumption , rising wages may erode their export competitiveness , choking off inflows of foreign direct investment . with rebalancing policies alone unlikely to boost average output substantially , enhancing productivity is critical to china ’s long-term prosperity . the final piece of the chinese puzzle is realism . as it stands , the chinese government remains keen to keep decent growth at about 7 % annually , while pushing forward the path of rebalancing and reform . the risk is that , until reform measures take effect , the authorities can rely on short-term stimulus to meet their growth targets , aggravating resource misallocation , and structural vulnerability .
and , by closing itself off from a prominent , us-supported institution , he can send the message that nobody who has stood up to him won . throughout history , despots have used the same tactic . yet orbán is doing so at the eu in 2017 . it is worth remembering that to join the eu , hungary was forced to fulfill its stringent accession criteria , including credible democratic institutions and adherence to the rule of law . that such high standards are now being systematically eroded has put the eu ’s paradox .
soros : the ecb is , after all , a functioning institution . so long as it acts within its own powers , germany does not have a veto over it . it is why i am hopeful that something genuinely significant could emerge from the deliberations currently taking place behind closed doors . question : are you thinking about the current economic crisis perhaps the final step in a generalized philosophical crisis of the west ? soros : my discussion was a discussion in 2000 of the crisis of global capitalism .
moreover , italy is not as though a flat capital-gains tax will impede social mobility or lift poverty reduction . indeed , since sweden adopted the same tax system in 1991 , its average annual rate on annual productivity growth has since increased by a factor of four . moreover , social mobility in france has not experienced any major change since 1991 . by moving away from a university level of universal eligibility system to one found more suitable for all subsequent college students , france stands to benefit from more genuine equality and greater social mobility . indeed , macron ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s revolution is on the move .
aside from individual firms , entire value chains , which are making a major contribution to a country ’s gdp , have endured a sudden operational and financial freeze . but , while many business observers have been focused on scandals ’ short-run political and economic fallout , this is worth recalling what brazil stands to gain by exposing corruption and punishing offenders . reforming the relationship between brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s public and private sector may actually improve the country ’s ’s long-term economic performance . ongoing prosecutions have already transformed the calculus for any economics agent , reflecting the violation of public trust in private gains . there is now a widespread perception that those engaged in illicit dealings have an increased likelihood of being captured and punished , regardless of their social status .
as union races ahead , it appears that , like the way it has lost europe ’s citizens along the way , it seems likely that it has lost all time in the process . many , indeed , are turning their back on an entire project through which to choose a different kind of project . indeed , they have difficulty seeing what is common for europe as a whole . they do not feel part of a great whole , particularly in the new eu member states , that is cooling .
these include trump ’s former national security adviser , michael flynn , who had lied about his conversations with russia ’s ambassador during the transition ( presumably to lifting the sanctions imposed on president barack obama ) . moreover , president-elect donald trump ’s own son , jr. , together with other top campaign officials , met in trump tower , with an outspoken russian intelligence agent with ties to the kremlin that had pledged “ dirt ” on hillary clinton . widely thought , though , that trump ’s own son would face impeachment , as did donald , jr. , saying so , but barr ’s announcement had ruled over further prosecution . another prominent escapee from trump ’s special counsel was trump ’s son-in-law , jared kushner , who is widely believed to have used his white house role , especially on foreign policy ( in which he ’d had no experience ) to attend to his family ’s need for funding to pay off huge real-estate debt . trump himself remains vulnerable to investigations launched or handed down to federal and state prosecutors outside of washington .
backroom dealings and violence continue to govern the day . pundits argue that arabs can not manage a democracy at all . indeed , america and its allies simply do not enjoy the results of arab democracy , which all too often produces governments that are nationalist , anti-israel , islamist , and dangerous to america ’s own oil interests . when the ballots move in that direction , the us simply ignores electoral results ( as it did in 2006 , for example , when hamas won an overwhelming majority of the popular vote in gaza ) . america can not stem the downward spiral of violence in the middle east .
cambridge : after a squandered decade , the world is roving itself off against a aids pandemic sweeping through the world ’s ’s poorest countries , particularly in africa and south-asia . the pandemic has claimed 19 million lives and created 13 million such orphans . 34 million more people live with an hiv virus that causes aids ; virtually everyone is pegged to early deaths . while first identified in the americas in the early 1980 ’s , there is now an epidemic of aids in poor countries : about 25 million people suffer from it ; six million more in asia . in parts of south africa , about 20 % of adults are afflicted .
in most cases , the “ skies ” laws mirror those in the world ’s ’s oceans . the oceans belong to everyone , except those near the landmasses , governed in a similar way by a country ’s land-locked border . as a result , the skies are usually conceptualized . airliners and fighter aircraft operate in “ controlled ” ” air near the ground , whereas nationality is supposed to matter less of the larger you pass . fragile treaties that cover this are enforced mostly by the fact that few nations can afford to place assets that are high .
in fact , very few other trends pose an even bigger threat to global stability . nearly all societies have become heavily dependent on internet , the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s most outsize infrastructure , and also on the infrastructure upon which all other infrastructure relies . the so-called internet of things is misnomer ; soon enough , it will become the internet of anything . and our current era is not so much a fourth industrial revolution ; it begins at the beginning of the digital age and the end of an industrial age altogether . the digital age has introduced new vulnerability , from which hackers , cyber-crime , and other malign actors are already routinely exploiting .
wto membership will also force the government to stop discriminating in favor of soes and against capital-intensive economic sectors , including agricultural production . china ’s pre-reform strategy in the pre-reform era rejected the notion of “ comparative advantage ” – the principle that an economy produces some goods more efficiently than others , owing to factors like natural resource and geography and climate . jamaica , it is said , does not produce frozen salmon or hockey players , either , because it invested in industries like citrus and tourism provides far greater certain profits . similarly , wto-induced secular adjustment underlies the decline of foreign steel and textiles in advanced countries like america . within china , most soes have survived , because central planners have emphasized economic autarky without regard for cost .
at the same time , there are some who seem to believe that the european fiscal and monetary framework has locks italy into weak nominal gdp growth , possibly too-high inflation , and high debts . yet , before a new government took office , italy ’s ’s cyclically adjusted fiscal deficit , unlike its underlying debt position , was often rather restrained in comparison to the rest of europe , just as the other g7 members ( canada , france , germany , the united kingdom , and the united states ) had done . still , the mainstream political parties that had governed italy until this year failed to deliver the nominal gdp growth that the country needs . as a result , italians were opting for an unconventional coalition , whose agenda is combining the populist left ’s policies with those of the populist right . while the league party is promising to cut taxes , the populist five star movement ( m5s ) pursues a form of basic income .
encouraging foreign investment , or sheltering everything and then waiting for things to get better , does n’t work . an efficient strategy needs to accomplish two tasks : encouraging investment in neoclassical fields and denying projects and investment failing . for this , governments need to put forward both a carrot and a stick . learning what a country is ( or can be ) good at making is the key economic-development challenge . the carrot is needed because there is great social value in discovering , cutting flowers , or soccer footprints , or computer software can be made at low cost because that knowledge can orient money to others .
combining these conservative assumptions about potential us gdp with a cyclical rebound effect , an estimated 1.2 % annual real gdp growth would generate real gdp growth at an average annual rate of 2.6 % , well above the 1.9 % rate at the end of 2009 . but not all of the extra output produced over the coming decade will remain . if the us trade deficit reduces gdp by about 3 % between now and the end of that decade , an implied rise in us exports and import prices would reduce the output available for america ’s consumption and investment by around 0.3 % per year . the effect of the us dollar ’s decline over the next decade could be equally significant . if the real trade-weighted value of the us dollar falls by more than 25 % in the coming decade , and the full effect of that us dollar decline reflects rising us import prices , the rising cost of us imports would reduce america ’s real incomes by about 0.4 percentage points annually .
holdouts asserted that if new bonds were to be serviced in full ( as they were ) , an equal treatment demanded that holdouts should receive the full amount owed ( including not only to interest but also principal ) . the american second circuit court of appeals ruled that argentina was bound to honor its holdout bondholders ’ obligations on the same proportion ( namely , 100 % ) as holders of exchange bonds . it was this ruling that the greek supreme court recently upheld . under the court ’s orders , argentina might not pay holders of new bonds unless it also pays holdouts , and no american financial institution can serve as the intermediary to make loans to argentina . as a result , argentina must either pay the holdouts that are in full or in default on new bonds .
china has now embarked on a $ 1.4-billion project to construct the sprawling complexity of monaco on reclaimed land in colombo – the “ harbor city ” that will become a major stop on china ’s nautical “ road city . ” zhou bo , a honor fellow with a pla academy of military sciences , admits that , as china ’s mega-projects , “ will fundamentally alter the indian ocean ’s political and economic landscape , ” while presenting china as the strong yet benign “ measure of power . ” this is significant , for the new asian order will be determined less by developments in east asia , where japan seems determined to block china ’s rise than by events in the indian ocean , where china is chipping away at india ’s longstanding dominance . to be sure , india is under suspicion about china ’s behavior , particularly in the region . but , with its large exports , china is treading carefully enough that it can pursue its own goals , without spooking its intended quarry .
yet sharif has been a honored guest in modi ’s own inauguration , exchanging gifts with india ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s newly affable leadership . likewise , the modi government has adopted the upa-proposed goods and services tax , stalled by defiance of bjp-ruled states ( including modi ’s own gujarat ) . and it is reinforcing the national anti-terror effort that modi had previously denounced as an assault on indian federalism . indeed , many of modi ’s media supporters have already begun to decry a series of political abdications modi has pursued ever since his campaign . indian citizens , who had thought they had voted in favor of change , are beginning to wonder if the bjp simply reprised the upa ’s policies .
in all conflicts , human rights are among the first casualties ; and , in the middle east , degradation of human dignity was now undone by an international conventions agreed upon over a few generations . now , we should look to the helsinki process to demonstrate anew the need to retrieve of what was lost . with today ’s emphasis on military action in the so-called “ war on terror , ” ” ” the need for a conference on security and military affairs – in conjunction with the stability charter – has become urgent . a regional agenda must be established to help identify priorities , underpinned by a three-pronged strategy that includes the energy and water policy , arms-control communication , and debt reduction . europe ’s contribution to the middle east has been great .
they did their best to ensure that there were no meaningful reforms to occur during the crisis , knowing full well that the post-crisis momentum for reform would dissipate . for their part , they were much more right than they knew it was . who , after all , might have anticipated that bill clinton would follow an american president committed to undermining the multilateral system in all of its mantras ? for example , when the imf rightly suggested after argentina ’s crisis that it needed a better path to debt restructuring ( an international bankruptcy process ) , america vetoed the initiative . when the oecd proposed agreement to curtail bank secrecy , the bush administration vetoed that initiative , too .
bangkok – earlier this month , an estimated 100,000 hong kong residents gathered in victoria park ’s 28th anniversary of china ’s violent repression of the pro-democracy protestors in beijing ’s tiananmen square . as the south china morning post noted , the event in hong kong was the only massive public commemoration of june 4 , 1989 , on chinese soil . and , to the attendees , hong kong ’s showcases reflected growing frustrations , not only with china ’s ’s own leaders , but also with each other . on the surface , little has changed since the united kingdom ’s return to china 20 years ago . yet , in reality , china now exercises near total control over hong kong ’s governance .
what plays well with a single group might not sit well with another . and , to be sustainable , a successful vision also needs to be an efficient diagnosis of what a group faces . leaders need to get the question right up to the extent that it is proposing answers . to make a choice of and articulate one in a vision , they need not only to solicit the input of their followers , but also to understand the background of their choices . with the right to make of ideas , they need to be able to evaluate reality precisely .
sixth , they are rumored to have weakened targeted governments . but , by making the business and investment climate worsening , economic sanctions take their toll primarily on the private sector . if anything , power becomes more tightly centralized and concentrated as governments increasingly control supplies of strategic commodities , given the scarcity that it causes . finally , by including nuclear proliferation , sanctions are supposedly effective at containing nuclear proliferation . here , too , their record is demonstrably poor .
central and eastern europe after 1989 , although an extremely interesting benchmark for arab revolutions , is not an apt point , for it is the region ’s ’s new domestic and foreign order that resulted from a change of external conditions stemming from the collapse of soviet power . internally , almost all of these countries had a very clear idea of what they wanted : democracy , liberty , market economies , and the protection of a return to the former russian empire . what they wanted was the west ; their accession to nato and the european union was a logical one . nothing of that sort applies to the middle east ’s crisis zones . no power anywhere , inside or without a region , is both willing and capable of pursuing the barest vision of a new regional order , or even a vision for a part .
new haven – by now , it is an all-too-familiar brew . after an extended period of exceptional monetary accommodation , the american federal reserve has started the long march toward normalization . it has now moved the first step toward reversing its benchmark policy interest rates , the us federal funds rate , to a level that imparts neither stimulus nor restraint on the american economy . a majority of financial-market actors applaud this strategy , but they do too much . in fact , doing so is a dangerous mistake , but it does seem to be .
the dangers for central banks stem from the failure to measure implicit subsidies to major financial institutions in any form , rather than to be measured in any budget . moreover , the build-up of risk within a financial system that accompanies higher leverage is both hard to measure and is likely to materialize only after a few years ( as governor of the fed has now expired ) . de gregorio ’s views differ from those of his peers in other countries , because he sees clear risks in letting banks become bigger and applying what he calls smart ” strategies that require great leverage . higher leverage creates macroeconomic risk , not least for fiscal balances , when implicit safeguards are needed to be honored . by keeping banks and other private-sector firms at lower levels of sovereign debt , the vulnerability to shocks is diminished .
new york – there has been no shortage of scrutiny on what russian president vladimir putin is up to the surface in syria , and on why . much of his analysis , though based narrowly on short periods of time , may be overly negative in assessing his actions ’ likely long-term implications . what is known is that putin chose to come to the aid of bashar al-assad ’s own embattled regime . russia ’s explosive device is now raking down on the array of armed groups fighting syrian government forces , giving the regime the breathing space intended to provide russia ’s ’s ’s intervention . just as bad as assad ’s government may or may not respond , that outcome is arguably preferable in the short run to a regime collapse .
that may be interpreted broadly as part of a rules-based global trading framework . using 2017 data , we find that the number of anti-dumping and countervailing ( anti-subsidy ) cases lodged by all wto member countries against exporting countries ( a log ranging from a graph down to a vertical axis ) tends to fall as income levels of an exporter raises ( shown by a log value on an horizontal axis ) . every blue dot on graph represents the wto ’s own member economy , and a solid blackline shows the international averages ( drawn from all wto member economies excluding china ) . the data pattern is reasonably obvious : as a country becomes richer , there are fewer antidumping , or antidumping cases against it . that might be because wealthier countries observe rules better , tends to attract complaints as their labor costs rise or some combination of the two .
most bets are on britain to leave the eu formally in march 2019 , but “ “ temporary ” leave in a customs union , giving it another two or three years to negotiate a final divorce settlement . brexiteers will scoff at such a “ soft ” exit , but probably will probably prove enough to ensure parliamentary approval . the referendum ’s decision to leave the eu would be next to be honored , but with its harsh economic implications delaying it : the triumph of pragmatism over ideology . if the trajectory of brexit turns out to be this way , this will be a very good illustration of the dual character and function of politics . john maynard keynes put the matter well : “ “ “ words start to be a little wild , ” because they are an assault on thoughts not thought , ” he wrote in 1933 .
the atmosphere could not have become more tranquil : a former royal castle in the rolling hills of tyranus near frankfurt , where statesmen and politicians held an annual meeting relating to the middle east . europeans and americans , israelis and iranians , egyptians and turks , palestinians and tunisians rubbed shoulders . the novelty this year was the presence of post-saddam iraq representative , among them an kurdish regional government and a high ranking of shi’ite shi'a proxy . the new situation in iraq , together with the middle east ’s road map , was on the attention centered . on the opening night of germany , the then senior german foreign minister , himself deeply implicated in middle east affairs , addressed the two subjects displaying great sensitivity to both israeli and palestinian fears .
last friday , cairo , despite an almost-complete absence of coverage through local media outlets , has been paralyzed . and ramadan – now underway to come to light , is mobilizing zation-friendly . a common program is under way . observant muslims gather at sundown for iftar ( breakfast ) , followed by evening prayers tawarih ( longer prayers , including the short-lived sermon ) , social interactions , qiyam ( another late-night per prague ) , suhur ( another collective meal ) , and then their morning prayers . the last 10 days of ramadan are i ‘ the tikaf ( collective seclusion ) , during which worshippers are gathering and spending nights in their mosques and open lands .
as africa ’s lead development-finance institution , the african development bank will give its support to our north african members , enhancing corporate governance and institutions , enhancing the social-security nets , and laying the foundation for robust economic recovery . as we finance infrastructure and other projects across the region , we will push for more integrated regions and rural integration . by leveraging our consultations with governments and other actors , we cooperate more closely with national and regional civil-society groups and the media , as well as with our academic institutions , think tanks , labor unions , and industrial and sectoral associations . with an emerging democratic delusion , we have partners with which we can engage in governance issues . no country or region can truly aspire to full , broad-based economic growth without pulling along all segments of its population and giving a voice to all .
at long last , even many of the poorest countries seemed to join , posting vigorous growth on the back of rising energy and raw material prices , renewed mining investment from abroad , and rising fiscal revenues . while the numbers were never quite as rosy as market enthusiasts seemed to think , they did move away from the shaky fundamentals of their newfound prosperity . the increasing need for action to correct global imbalances was met with incrementally by influential policymakers and market analysts alike : “ why change the winning formula ? ” the fate of the rest of the world depends on responses to unfolding financial turmoil . wealth contraction and stock markets will no doubt dampen american household borrowing and demand , potentially triggering a downward spiral .
manila – food shortages are a distant memory for many in asia . but , as the region ’s struggles to nurture and nourish a booming population , they could once again become a painful reality on life . asia is already the world ’s largest food market , and , by 2050 , its population is projected to grow to as much as five billion – an estimated rise of about 900 million people . owing to its expanding middle class , the region is likely to account for more than half of the global rise in perennial beef and poultry consumption , and more than three-quarters of the surge in fish consumption from now to 2030 . and , by that time , more than 60 % of global cereal demand will come from south and east asia .
what america needs is a better explanation of its own to be explained to its own people why america should engage more deeply with the middle east in mounting problems . this is not to say that america should necessarily engage with every issue . but , whether it is engaged or not , it needs policy . syria is a case in point . the situation there , predicted by every pundit around , has metastasized , threatening a full-blown regional civil war .
london – the cybersecurity is one of the defining challenges of the digital age . everybody , from households to companies to governments , has a stake in protecting our era ’s most precious commodity : the data . the question , then , is how to make that happen . the scale of the challenge should n’t be underestimated . with attackers becoming increasingly nimble and innovative , armed with an increasingly varied array of weapons , cyber-attacks occur at faster pace , and with more sophistication than ever before .
this , after all , is not the only way forward . migrant migrants do make a lot of sense ; but it is desirable to help create sustainable conditions in the troubled countries with the help of a generation of emigrants , who were first transferring resources resources , then returning to their returns . many consequences follow from such home truths on the ground of immigration , not least more rational discussion . viewed from a perspective of such truths gives a lie in europe ’s eastward enlargement ; for example , it is highly desirable not despite but because it can lead to migration from new member states to old ones . in this manner , more portugands and irelands can emerge as the fortunes of already prosperous regions .
the cost is miniscule : reaching an estimated 80 % of the world ’s 140 million or so undernourished children would require a commitment of around $ 60 million annually , whereas achieving rapid economic gains would ultimately amount to a clear $ 1 trillion per year . providing iron and iodized salt is another top-line of investment . fortifying this products at iron expense as little as $ 0.12 per person per year . at the same time , we know that iron deficiency leads to our cognitive and developmental challenges . for the sake of $ 286 million we could get iodized salt , enriched staple food items to 80 % of those worst-affected areas , with benefits estimated to be about nine times that sum .
standardization and trade liberalization in the european telecoms sector have underpinned a 9 % value-added or more rate of per capita value added during this period , compared to america ’s 6 % growth . the largest scope for renewed private-sector investment is in capital-intensive industries , in which the government has a major presence as regulator . indeed , even if european countries were to close just 10 % of gdp on capital stock per worker at the subsector levels , the impact could account for more than € 360 billion in additional investment , more than € 360 billion from 2007 to 2011 . many projects , from airports to university campuses , benefit from returns over a decade , which suggests that weak short-term demand in the short run will have only a limited effect on their overall viability . even among more near-term projects , some – retrofitting buildings with more energy-efficient traits – could become viable with policy action .
as a result , the growth differential between emerging-market and advanced economies ranks aggregated behind imf data , and between hong kong , singapore , south korea , singapore , and taiwan in an emerging group has declined considerably . indeed , after averaging three percentage points over the next two decades , and rising to 4.8 percentage points in 2010 , the percentage-point differential has fallen to just 2.5 last year , and is forecast to amount to just 1.5 this year . the question , then , is whether the growth differential will remain just as low at the current level today . those who assume that it will typically rely on three sets of arguments , all of which require some skills . first , they argue , much of the convergence has already occurred in manufacturing .
in practice , the proliferation of new safeguards in recent years has introduced a high degree of moral hazard and created perverse incentives , both for governments and for market actors alike . under the most recent eurozone reforms , the principle that those who assume risk should be liable for it has been replaced by some principle of joint liability , implying financial transfers on an unprecedented scale when crises occur . the current situation in italy should serve as a warning to all of those advocating downside risk sharing . making matters worse , the sole focus on solidarity implies that europe ’s real problems have gone unaddressed . these include high levels of public and private debts , weak institutions , over-regulating markets , and persistently incomplete balance-sheet corrections on the part of corporations and banks .
the hoped-for break with the past did not emerge , because political infighting among poland ’s new leaders had blocked the implementation of any serious reform agenda . but 2004 was also a bitter setback for russian president vladimir putin , who sought to emasculate his favored presidential candidate , viktor yanukovych , into power in kyiv by backing massive vote manipulation . that failure was a bitter blow to the kremlin , one that was neither forgiven nor forgotten . then , in 2010 , the orange revolution ’s default brought yanukovych to power in a free and fair election , and in 2012 putin chose for a third presidential term in russia . building a new eurasian union was an essential component of his platform .
following the east asia crisis of 1997 came seven years of capital flight . a third cycle of inflows appeared in 2004-2011 , persisting even through the global financial crisis . if history repeats itself exactly , the time has come for the third “ abrupt halt ” of capital flows to emerging markets . are a number of data points and biblical parable enough to take the 15-year cycle hypothesis seriously ? perhaps , to be sure , there is some causal theory that could explain such periodicity as to international capital flows .
jefferson and madison did not want the countries ’s capital to be in the north ; hamilton reluctantly agreed to encourage moving it to an area carved out of virginia or maryland . they would , in turn , secure votes for the federal government to assume and repay states that were ’ defaulted debts . a responsible fiscal state emerged from this grand compromise . despite enormous expenses , over half of all fledgling government bond expenditures in early years went to work , the economy shaken up the 1780 ’s depression , and entered the stage of growth . hamilton ’s ’s ’s task was both easier and harder than the us today .
digital id could play an even more expansionary role in the ways that individuals and institutions interact with one another . the digital id systems that succeed in driving high adoption could generate major economic value for individuals , businesses , and government entities . as we document a new report , our digital ids have the potential to lower fraud rates , trim customer onboard costs , boost financial inclusion , and deepen savings and credit for under-banked customers . at the same time , they can spur development , by allowing matching digital talent and streamlined employee verification , in the form of higher labor-market participation . digital ids could even establish a means to master data and digital footprints in interconnected online ecosystems .
if the revolution continues aprenr in , it dissects into incompetence , disillusionment , frenzied witch-hunts , and a recurring cycle of violence . but if the revolutions aborted , its leaders unmasquerade as empty windbags . the first 1917 revolution toppled czar nicholas , creating a tentative government , headed by the socialist leader alexander kerensky , turned out to be a transitory blip . lenin described kerensky as the “ balalaika ” played by the old order , to perpetuate mislead by workers and peasants . but the second revolution , which brought lenin and the bolsheviks to power , produced a regime that was no less vulnerable to accusations of treason .
beneath it is an opportunity for the creation of a single banking supervisor , combining the roles of a currency comptroller , a more thrift supervisory office , and the regional feds ’ regulatory function . in a perfect world , one would add one within sovereign banking insiders , but i recognize that , at that point , i began to have trample on the cherished features of the american constitution ! this regulatory architecture would leave a free-for-all in to speak openly about advancing the financial system as a whole , without worrying about the implications for individual institutions in their care . at the same time , the crisis demonstrated that we need this simple speaking process . moreover , such a solution would protect the fed ’s critical autonomy in its monetary-policy role .
in india , for example , fears that petty mom-and-pop retailers will shudder as wal-mart continues to enter its market in the coming months . but policymakers must recognize that there are ways to keep smallholders without stifling competition . the government can either impose zoning regulations , helping small retailers find specialized niches in a market or offering skills training to displaced workers . at the same time , the survival of artisanal vendors should not serve as a pretext to introduce or uphold entrepreneurial regulations that ultimately protect an ailing incumbent . asian policymakers need to recall how they were successfully developed by their manufacturing industry through competition .
toulouse – if history punishes those who fail to learn from it , financial history does its punishment with an sadistic twist ; it also punishes those who are learning from it too enthusiastically . time and again , financial crises have reflected the vulnerabilities of the regulatory system that had been established on the lessons learned from previous crises . today ’s crisis is no exception ; nor is it another one . the postwar global system of financial regulation was built on three supposed lessons since the 1930 ’s . first , we believed that a key reason for failing by banks was that depositors panic was not that the main cause of so much depositors panic is that the banks were at risk of default .
for china , the single largest prize is the bilateral investment treaty . in a practical environment , a us-china bit would make it easy for chinese entities to invest and operate in the us , and to raise american firms ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ access to chinese markets . such an agreement would be a boon for xi , because it would represent a vote for america ’s struggling economy . but the prospects for a bit are uncertain , at best . the american congress is deeply skeptical , and the american business community needs persuasive .
this is particularly interesting given that it fundamentally rejects one of the most harrowing scenes from al gore ’s film an inexpedient truth . in graphic detail , gore demonstrated how the 20-foot sea-level rise would inundate much of florida , shanghai , and holland ’s . the ipcc report notes that the exaggerations of this magnitude had no basis in the sciences , although they clearly alarmed people , and perhaps win gore ’s academy awards . at the same time , the report debunked the improbability of another gore scenario : that global warming might make the gulf stream shut down , turning europe into new siberia . the ipcc simply and tersely tells us that this scenario , too , also vividly depicted in hollywood movie night , is considered “ “ very unlikely . ”
it is important to note that china can still reduce the bilateral trade surplus with the us for any specific partner , even if its overall trade surplus rises . and even if import expo expands rather than reduce , a country ’s trade surplus with the us , it may well have some other benefit . for starters , lowering import costs will boost chinese households ’ purchasing power , as well as access to goods that can improve their quality of life . chinese firms also will benefit from the lower cost of foreign-made parts and facilities to boost their global competitiveness – another channel through which lower import barriers may end up undermining their exports . finally , an international import expo will complement china ’s additional market-liberalization measures , including the lower entry barriers for foreign-owned financial firms .
throughout the west , germany is questioning whether or not russia will continue to use natural gas as a means to project economic and political pressure on ukraine , georgia , and other gulf countries in what the kremlin regards as its “ near abroad . ” exploiting a “ energy weapon ” , ” ” ” ” however , is no more than a tactic : it is at the heart of the prevailing doctrine guiding russian foreign policy . russia ’s policy toward post-soviet countries is rooted in the doctrine of a “ “ liberal empire , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” according to which russia ’s ’s ’s prominent government-owned and private corporations should assume control of key economic entities across the borders of the former soviet republics by acquiring their own assets . against this background , the word “ liberal ” should be understood to suggest an empire of the ussr ’s “ new russia dream , ” which should be constructed through purely economic means , excludes all forcible action against other peoples . naturally , a key role in this model has come to play in providing energy to the post-soviet countries .
cambridge – the united states congress is coming close to enacting a major tax reform . the plan ’s most important provision lowers the corporate tax rate from 35 % to 20 % – from the highest among all oecd countries to one of the lowest , allowing american firms to repatriate their foreign subsidiaries ’ profits without imposing additional american taxes . regulatory opponents point to the resulting increase in the federal budget deficit , adding $ 1.5 trillion to us government debt over the next ten years . having dislike us budget deficits , i have long warned of their perilous effects . nonetheless , i am convinced that the economic benefits resulting from a corporate tax shift will outweigh the adverse effects of increased us debt .
the us needs a group of major economies , calling it major ” to declare monetary policies in a coordinated fashion . to see why , consider a case for japan . japanese policymakers have good reason to try to encourage some inflation , and even correct some of the yen ’s secular appreciation during the past six or seven years . but , in today ’s unilateral world , other central banks would soon respond by injecting liquidity , inviting the bank of japan until now . while such actions are typically warranted as policies to boost domestic demand , they end up fueling the surrogate , a low-grade currency war .
the disparity in economic performance under democratic and republican administrations is in line and depth , with disparities definite over the threshold for statistical significance . princeton university economists alvin blinder and mark watson affirm this democratic dividend in a recent study . their starting point is the view that , during the post-world war ii period ( from harry truman to barack obama to barack obama ) that annual gdp growth averaged 4.3 % during democratic administrations , compared to just 2.5 % under republican control . if one goes back further , to include herbert hoover and franklin d. roosevelt , the disparity is even bigger . the results are similar , even if one highlights responsibility for the first three months , or the first few quarters , of a us president ’s term to his immediate predecessor .
terms in office have now expired for prosecutor-general , members of the national electoral commission , and supreme court justices have told them , but no successors have been named , because maduro is reluctant to negotiate with the opposition and lacks the two-thirds majority in the national assembly needed to nominate officials for his choice . venezuelans would have wanted nothing better than to be the ones deciding his own destiny , yet the democratic means that they are being denied are them by any means whatsoever . indeed , one of the key opposition leader , leopoldo lópez , has already received arrests of ludicrous charges of “ inciting crime . ” it would have been wary of telling ukrainian demonstrators facing governmental storm troopers to bear it without outside solidarity or support . it is just as preposterous to tell venezuelan protesters the same thing .
true , the far-left parties have also made advances since a post-crisis slump . nevertheless , history suggests that nationalists have the most to gain from episodes of political and societal breakdown . it is all too easy to see why . classical socialism is the offspring of liberal internationalism to assert that it is a globalizing creed ; in principle , it knows no national frontiers . yet in the face of large-scale economic crack-ups , internationalism becomes precisely the point .
london – “ what if that is supposed to be done as good ? ” jack nicholson asks , because he is walking through his psychiatrist , ’s waiting room in an visible movie . at the recent g-20 finance ministers ’ meeting in shanghai this month , the participants asked a lot the same question , not merely in terms of the medium-term expectations of weak global growth . many now wonder whether china ’s ’s current rate of growth will be as good for the long term as it continues forever . determining the validity of such fears will require an understanding of what drive china ’s economic slowdown .
the internet , too , is disseminating the templates of what a true democracy appears to look like , instantly and globally . not surprisingly , people are using this technology in ways that indicate they have little inclination to trade off conflicting and competing ethnicities , nationalities , or religious identities . put simply , they want simple democracy and economic self-determination . that agenda is in direct conflict with the interests of the global capital , as well as those of governments that have grown used to operate without citizen oversight . it is a conflict that may be expected to heighten dramatically in 2012 , as protestors ’ ’ agendas , from occupying wall street to occupying moscow , gain an additional coherence .
but three of the four largest european union economies , france , italy , and the united kingdom , all run large debt and annual deficits , which point to even higher debt-to-gdp ratios in the future . a rising level of national debt has absorbs the funds that otherwise would have been made available to finance productivity-enhancing business investment . businesses now worry that rising deficits will lead to higher future taxes , further discouraging investment . that , in turn , is a troubling prospect for everyone . when policy interest rates rise , as they certainly have to do , the costs of servicing the debt will require higher future taxes , hurt economic incentives , and weakening economic activity .
they have pioneered new retail institutions , from department stores to box shops . the economy ’s fastest growing industries since the late nineteenth century have been as loosely categorized as “ service industries , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” often linked to disseminating information and amusement – activity in which jews were particularly prominent , from publishing to vaudeville and film from business to commercial sports . at the same time , they have tended to be disproportionately better at informed professions – such as medicine , the rule of law , and accounting – that are so central to a modern capitalist society . significantly , the fact that jews have been a minority of many subject to discrimination is sometimes as reason for their propensity to devote to commerce , finance , and occupation . yet not all minorities long under discrimination are necessarily successful under market-competition conditions .
so far , sustainable infrastructure has been financed mostly by the multilateral and national development banks ( mdbs and ndbs ) . crowding in private-sector capital will thus be the key to closing the investment gap . to help scale up the development and financing of sustainable infrastructure in low – and middle-income economies , we are proposing a new holistic framework , developed by a single planet lab working group on financing sustainable infrastructure , of which one of us ( déséglise ) is a member . frameworks dubbed a environmentally responsible transition – infrastructure ” ( vert-infra ) , aimed at helping unlock project pipelines and developing sustainable infrastructure as an asset class , thereby opening the door to large-scale investment by institutional investors worldwide . vert-infra initially covers four sub-sectors of sustainable infrastructure : energy , energy storage , transportation , and buildings with special emphasis on urban projects .
today , following the world financial and economic crisis ( and unlike in afghanistan 2001 ) , america appears crucially weakened . moreover , the new superpower with its own vested interests , namely china and india , has come across the international scene . without us backing from china and india , american ’s middle east policy can no longer succeed ; on the contrary , it receives only half-heartedly , if at all , if at all . the success of american policy in that region holds very limited interests in beijing and new delhi , with europeans neither willing nor able to contribute substantial support . trapped in this tangled knot of regional wars , crisis , and conflict , iran ’s nuclear ambitions appear to be a “ ticking time bomb , ” and a lot of new dynamite is amassed throughout the region .
this , however , is no longer the story ; after all , it is the world today . creative destruction ( boosted by economic openness and technology ) is sweeping the world . skeptics keep arguing that competition and technology wreak havoc with the harmony of society ; that they generate inequality and eviscerate the middle class . true , a new economy hard to those sitting on its back and living at the expense of stockholders or taxpayers . true , it gives energetic people formerly on the sidelines .
chest x-rays of lung cancer and the pap for cervical cancer have received a similar , if less definitive , critique . the next step in cancer screening last year occurred with drug-resistant researchers in the who ’s dartmouth medical policy institute announced that the cost of breast cancer screening has often been minimized , and that the benefits have been vastly exaggerated . indeed , even a mammogram ( nearly 40 million is given annually in an american ) that detects a cancer does not necessarily save an individual ’s life . dartmouth researchers found that of an estimated 138,000 breast cancers detected annually in the americas , the test did not help 120,000-134,000 of afflicted women . cancers either grew so slowly that they pose no problem or would have been treated successfully if clinically ( or were so aggressive that little could be done ) .
this matters , because a rising population may turn out to be an even larger problem than previously thought . a new study argues that there is now an astounding 70 % chance that the world population will not rise up this century and the 80 % chance that it will reach the world ’s 9.6-12.3 billion by 2100 . sub-saharan africa – persistently the world ’s poorest region – will be the engines of demographic growth . fortunately for africa , there is a cost-effective way to slow this engine : improving women ’s access to modern contraception . providing contraception for an estimated $ 3.6 trillion of women worldwide by the year , a significant share of it in africa that wants to avoid pregnancy would cost around $ 3.6 trillion annually .
state-owned enterprises , too , are supposed to be free to offer ; but they should receive no favors . what is needed is a fundamental problem in iraq . unlike the mexican , chinese , or russian revolutions , economic disenfranchisement is not driving the current conflict . this is a struggle of power , not an economic fairness or a better quality of life . it is the root causes that are political , sectarian , and personal .
on russia since its annexation of georgia , obama and his own running mate , joe biden ( who was the first party to visit georgia after its invasion ) , emphasize help georgia rebuild its economy and maintain its independence from behind the continuing russian campaign against it . by contrast , mccain wants to sanction russia by actions like expelling it from the g-8 . such a measure might ultimately be essential , but they will not help georgia survive as an independent democracy . moreover , even after the outrage at georgia began , issues like energy , climate change , and iran – upon which the west and the kremlin must work together – arise . that was true even during the cold war , and remains true today , mccain does not seem to recognize this .
following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . a targeted strain by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months .
central authority is gradually eroding as the country continues to be splinter into ethnic and sectarian zones , with the de facto kurdish sovereign state already well established in the north . meanwhile , in yemen , the possibility of adequate middle authority is slipping away as a country confronts several seemingly intractable problems , from internal divisions and separatist movements toward al qaeda ’s franchise in the arabian peninsula and a failing economy . both south ( aden ) and east ( hadramaut ) are both on a trajectories of independence , dragging yemen toward another secession struggle almost 25 years since the country is ’s fragile unification . in libya , the implosion of egypt ’s colonel muammar el-qaddafi ’s regime has plunged the country into chaos , decimating central-government authority . the south remains lawless , whereas the east is ruled by benghazi ’s regional council ; only the west remains under its ill-consolidated government in tripoli .
london – in the aftermath of the 2008 global financial crisis , a consensus emerged that the public sector had the responsibility to intervene to bail out systemically important banks and spur economic growth . but that consensus proved short-lived , and soon the public sector ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economic interventions came to be viewed as the root of the crisis , with the need for a spin to reverse itself . that proved to be a grave mistake , at least in the short run . in europe , in particular , governments lambasted their legacy of high debts , even when private-sector debt , not public borrowing , caused the meltdown . many were mandated to introduce austerity , rather than spurring growth with countercyclical policies .
we must fight excluding our national political parties just as we fight excluding each other in our societies . that means welcoming migrants and minorities , creating greater opportunities for women and other families with disabilities , and aligning themselves with citizens through education and participation . empowering citizens means giving them both the power to make decisions and the knowledge to make good decisions . in pasok , the greek socialist party , which i lead , is undertaking far-reaching reforms in that direction . likewise , the socialist international community ’s goal is a world governed not by free markets but by free peoples .
indeed , the euro could destroy the eu altogether . unlike europe , the united states emerges as the developed world ’s single strongest economy . in general , shale energy gave america an important competitive advantage in manufacturing in general and petrochemicals . both the banking and household sectors , for their part , have made some progress in deleveraging . by contrast , quantitative easing has boosted the asset class .
yet , by mid o’70s , when i first traveled to china during the cultural revolution , hardly a public surface had been adlazoned with the motto : “ “ “ down with american imperialism and its running dogs . ” even as the chinese felt unhinged by foreign interference and domination , many were also to admire america for its own democracy , openness , energy , and willingness to contribute anything to the world . this divided attitude meant that china had tended to overreact in ways that were impassioned and unforeseeable , especially when its pride was piqued . nothing made it more repugnant to china ’s new nationalists than to the notion of a weak and aggrieved china victimized by foreign exploitation . nothing provoked a more muscular reaction following mao ’s return than a humiliating prospect of feeling unable to resist foreign predation .
third , the us is facing steeply rising fossil-fuel prices as developing countries ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ growth drives up demand and conventional delivery of coal , oil , and gas have been depleted . understandably , the us may be able to find more fossil-fuel use , but at a much higher cost and at a much greater environmental risk from industrial spills , waste products , leaks , and other harm . even the much-heralded shale-gas revolution is a lot of hype , akin to past gold rushes and stock bubbles . shale-gas wells deplete far more quickly than conventional fields do . and they are ecological ones that are likely to boot to see .
london – the united kingdom ’s general election goes back a bit more than a month , but the brexit campaign already appears to have been with the us forever , rolling implacably ahead , but with little evidence of any really genuine excitement – or even big movements in the polls . for the two main contenders , the labour party and its ruling conservative party ( dpj ) , seem stuck in the lower-to-mid 30s . conservatives hope that a us government ’s track record on the economy will persuade undecided voters to break in their favor at the end of the campaign . perhaps they are right in the sense that they will turn out to be . meanwhile , labour appears to hope for who-knownst to turn the tide while keeping its collective fingers crossing that will not be eviscerated in scotland , where the scottish national party threatens to sweep away the board .
is it really an american tradition of ignorance about what will happen to others ? a second insight from psychological research summarized by bruce hood in his recent book the self illusion concerns the role of consciousness in decision-making . recent laboratory research shows that our conscious thinking devise , ex post , compelling rationales for a number of choices that our brain tend to make unconsciously . for example , former us president george w. bush may have decided to invade iraq , overthrowing saddam hussein for a variety of reasons : strategic gain , humanitarian concern , and even competition with his father . most did not involve the weapons of mass destruction .
other factors besides trade policy also matter . protecting property rights , civil and political liberties , protecting from accidental violence is a number of other important factors driving economic growth . fiscal restraint as reflected in low levels of government consumption relative to incomes - is equally important . geographic location also matters because things like distances from markets , misclimates , and poor soils are impeding economic growth in the developing world . but this makes the implementation of free-trade policies all the more critical because they are the best tools at their disposal to compensate for the unhappy cards that nature sometimes addresses .
durham , north carolina – daily begins with a high coffee mugs and ends with the mass hot chocolate . among this , i consume a variety of food and pharmaceuticals , including my daily 81 mg dose of aspirants . a colorful orchid orchid enlivens study with me , i captures a glimpse of my green backyard . in short , my life , like all of us , is enabled , enriched , and extended through a wide variety of plants and their derivatives areas . nevertheless , the biodiversity on which all of us depend is placed under threat as human activity devastates ’ forests and other plant-rich habitats .
ramallah – israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’s decision to authorize new jewish settlements on the eve of a possible “ settlement freeze ” is just the latest round in a cycle repeatedly echoed so many times over the last 40 years that it would seem mundane if not as dangerous . the cycle goes by something similar : america or the international pressure mounk to stop settlement activity in the occupied territories . israeli settlers and their supporters then gather even more energies in order to expand onto more palestinian lands , build more exclusive jewish settlements , and destroy more arab homes than they do in the so-called “ “ freeze ” come into effect . the peace process , not least not surprisingly , becomes the bland , while this has occurred . in the end , the world ’s pressures subsides , and the israel freeze does not materialize .
san francisco : there is a big gap between the us federal reserve ’s mandate to keep a “ stable price ” ” ” ” – as debased under the us federal reserve act – by the fed ’s self-selected target of 2 % annual inflation . so , how is it that us policymakers have succeeded in replacing the latter ? the term “ stable price ” is a self-explanatory : one bundle of goods will cost the same ten , 50 , or even 100 years , as is today . by contrast , if a country will experience 2 % inflation over a protracted period , the same actions that $ 100 may buy today will cost a year $ 122 at the end of the decade . after 100 years , the price tag will be a whopping $ 724 .
as france unravels , i share these values , but recognize that insisting on them , as a policy issue ultimately undermines migrants ’ self-interest . with vehemently anti-immigrant political forces sweeping ground across europe , one must ask whether newcomers desperate for a job are better served by being admitted on conditional foundations ( including , potentially , for a limited period ) , or by no means be admitted at all . skills-biased immigration makes like a similar dilemma . many in europe argue that this approach not only discriminates against some immigration ’s weakest groups , but also leads to a brain drain away from countries that need highly skilled workers . yet , once again , one has to examine the trade-off once again .
the eu ’s reforms were decreed from soaring over , with no grassroots support whatsoever , and therefore without any lasting durability . all of us had been made direct appeals to the street and the masses , rather than encouragement to forge a genuine social consensus . such a direct method , i believe , is the wellspring of authoritarianism . we must recognize that and understand that it emerges not only if a public becomes apathetic or overly frightened , but also in the absence of an apparently stable advanced guard , like the powerful political parties that select leaders and control them . as russia now confronts a situation in which presidential elections are the only political issue .
likewise , greece ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s rate is 49.3 % ; but its ratio is just 13 % . and the 20.8 eurozone-wide eurozone-wide eurozone-wide rate far exceeds the 8.7 % ratio . to be sure , the youth unemployment ratio , at 13 % , or 19 % , does not reflect complacency . but , while europe ’s youth unemployment rate rose since 2009 , its ratios have remained the same ( though both markedly above their pre-2008 levels ) . during a 2006 french student protests , france ’s then-youth unemployment rate , on average , seemed to compare unfavorably to rates of 11 % , to 12 % and 13 % in the united kingdom , switzerland , and germany , respectively .
alternatively , china could eventually become a new supplier of reserve assets . in this scenario , supply of the sdr ’s reserve asset would match the world ’s fourth-fast-growing regions . that link could be direct if the renminbi acquires reserve-currency status ; or indirect if the international monetary fund ’s index unit , special drawing rights , becomes the favored reserve managers ’ asset , because the renminbi is now in the sdr basket . reserve status for the sdr is a long-held ambition , though the notion has never gained much traction . but there is a third possibility : global demand for american reserve assets may subside .
trump has pledged to enact sweeping tax cuts , including cutting the corporate-tax rate from 35 % to just 15 % . add to that the plans for subsidizing infrastructure investment and boosting military spending , and america ’s seems likely to confront rapidly rising fiscal deficits and vast short-term increases in demand . with america ’s economy already operating at near full capacity ( with unemployment at under 5 % ) , higher imports , and a stronger american dollar likely to meet that demand . all of this will be good for the european union , for whom america remains the dominant export market . but it is the peripheral countries that are likely to benefit most .
princeton – over the past century , the economic-policy debate has swung into orbit amid the respective roles and virtues of the state and markets . does market control of the state , in the sense that it sets limits on governments ’ ability to borrow ? or does the state take charge when the market fails to perform socially necessary function , such as fighting wars or sustaining full employment ? that old debate is at the heart of today ’s profound divisions over how europe should react to its own debt crisis . at the head of the us presidential and congressional elections this same issue is dividing american politics .
british negotiators then react to eu negotiators of ’ domino-theory logic by trying to force the trial as painful as possible for the rest of the eu . indeed , the uk ’s washington-based “ leave ” constituency has already firmly believe that the uk would be better off itself , and that brexit will harm the europeans much more than it hurts britons . that means that the leave camp has a powerful incentive to go along with its own currency prophecy . a second doom loop applies to the uk ’s single-handedly domestic political economy . britain can not simply start beating europeans in its own game by revitalizing its auto industry or by making its own wine to rival french and italian manufacturers .
the excess of domestic demand underpinning that evolution is now gone , permanently . when deleveraging in the household sector is complete , domestic spending may rebound ; but that savings rate will not and should not return to zero . fiscal stimulus , in the form of back-loading deficit-reduction efforts , might help tide the economy over as structural adjustment and competitiveness expand into the tradable sector advance . on its own , however , stimulus is not the answer , either . otherwise , domestic demand shortfall would reassert itself once the stimulus has ended .
so america ’s goal of regime change in baghdad does n’t look too bad , though it can not be publicly supported . for president putin , the sense of maintaining it does make sense to remain on the sidelines over iraq , at least for now , and to be paid off later for his helpful silence in the form of america ’s influence in iraq ’s successor regime concerning repayment of the country ’s russia-like debts . should america ’s war in iraq fail , the situation will hardly make much worse than it is now on a narrow view of russian interests , whereas the resulting mess will be a problem for america and its traditional ally , rather than for russia . the contrast between russia ’s treatment of iraq and iran underlines not just mr putin ’s famous pragmatism , but the sophistication and adroitness of his policies . this contrast also reflects the critical divide between iran , the historic nation of nations , and the artificial creation that is iraq .
kosovo has been derived from skepticism about serbia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s democratic credentials , principally because of the perception that conflict between kosovo and serbia is a structural , rather than a single one . regardless of how badly milosevic has exacerbated tensions , his policies toward kosovo ’s ’s ethnic albanians have proved favorably among serbs . indeed , throughout the decade of yugoslavia ’s ’s ’s wars , serbia ’s attitude toward its minorities reflected a nationalist consensus in which the bulk of what was then then the opposition participated . most kosovars will find talks to serbia on improved relations difficult unless serbia experiences some “ de-nazification ” ” ” process . so far , president kostunica ’s refusal even to discuss inserts an internationally charged war crime criminals are not a hopeful wife .
in the end , economic sanctions compelled qaddafi to distance himself from international terror and turn over megrahi ’s crackdown , just as another suspected , fhima , later acquitted , to face a youth-tribunal in holland in holland . but there has never been conclusive evidence that megrahi implicated in the lockerbie bombing . in fact , most experts continue to believe that he was convicted of using fraudulent evidence and of the cia bribed witnesses . moreover , libya has formally accepted responsibility for bombing , agreeing to pay over $ 2 billion to victims of ’ families , and abandoning its weapons of weapons of mass destruction . still , despite qaddafi ’s hope for a warmer embrace of western leaders ( and a spate of investments ) , relations remain plagued by mutual suspicion and frequent backsliding .
that experience has motivated it to establish his dangote academy , a center for talents development that aims to help fill the industrial-skills gap in nigeria and beyond . such initiatives are critical to aligning education with economic development and boosting prosperity . by 2040 , africa will have 1.1 billion working-age citizens , more than either india or china . with the right educational and skill opportunities , this immense labor force could deliver rapid , sustainable economic growth throughout the region . without them , the continent tends to experience rising unemployment , widening inequalities , social illness , and , eventually , conflict and chaos .
the husband of another young woman , aisha , carsha , trimmed her nose and ears when she broke away . violence against women in afghanistan persists for a number of reasons . first , the country inherited a patriarchal tribal tradition that presumes female ’s inferiority . as a result , women are bereft of their basic rights and liberties . second , there is a powerful political motivation to deprive women of their rights .
but entering europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economic and monetary union was meant to induce a political system in pursuit of longer-term goals , such as rising productivity and enhanced competitiveness . initially , events played out as a plan to improve . during greece ’s accession to the eurozone , from 1994 to 2001 , its economy stabilized . both the resulting inflation and the resulting fiscal deficit quickly fell ; firms and consumers became significantly more confident ; investment picked up ; and the government launched an ambitious reform package . annual gdp growth slowed from -1.6 percentage points in 1993 to more than 4 % in 1997 , and remained around that level until 2007 .
the european parliament , for its part , has already broadly endorsed such a move . the momentum toward hfo phase-out in the arctic is being built . the danish shipowners and the arctic expedipowners are just two players calling for tighter regulations or outright prohibition . other shipping companies have highlighted the need for regulation to sustain a level playing field . in january 2017 , hurtigruten was joined by the clean-arctic alliance to launch the arctic commitment .
john f. kennedy was a short time of both . he did one great deal : resolving the cuban missile crisis . and his gift to motivating nations was unmatched ; indeed , he outlasted him with his assassination cementing a potent legacy . in africa , no great figure has emerged since the death of south africans who combine the courage , executive authority , and magnanimity of the graceful abundance . in fact , he is among the most charismatic and charming leader i have met ; another two – former united nations secretary of state kofi annan and former us secretary of state colin powell – are either african or african-american .
florence : the rebuilding of cuba 's diplomatic relations with the united states unlocks new prospects for the island 's economy . some steps , including eliminating the u.s. trade embargo , are forbidden by the helms-burton act , adopted by america 's congress in 1996 . but restoring cuba 's ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s membership in the international monetary fund is a real possibility . cuba was one of the imf 's 40 former members , and the us had done with them all the time since world war ii . it had much to do with the 1944 bretton woods conference and had an active delegation here .
it goes without saying that academic or technological expertise is neither necessary nor sufficient to assure governments of success . indeed , many of my harvard colleagues would draw terrible political scientists , owing to a lack of leadership , managerial , or other interpersonal competence . and many superb political leaders , such as george washington and dwight eisenhower , among american presidents , were not intellectuals . technocrats may play a useful role as honest brokers , when traditional politicians became discredited or parties find themselves deadlocked . moreover , they have the tenacity that comes with the lack of a desire to be re-elected , either because their term in office has been limited preemptively , or because they are known to prefer quiet academic lives .
today , massive investment in critical infrastructure , industrialization , and urban development – vital to accommodate the widening global population set to reach nine billion by 2050 – is occurring without adequate regard for catastrophe risks . left unchecked , without comprehensive efforts to protect these new economic assets , disaster-related costs will skyrocket in the decades to come . in this sense , climate-change predictions should challenge policymakers and business leaders to re-calibrate their exposure perceptions of disaster risk , and to disaster risk . decision-makers need to recognize that no such catastrophe can be avoided ; there can be only the catastrophic impact of naturally occurring hazards on infrastructure , including workplaces , roads , schools , and hospitals . following the 2004 indian ocean tsunami , which devastated coastlines among 11 countries , resulting in over 150,000 deaths , half-million injured , and more than $ 10 billion in damages , 168 governments agreed on the hyogo framework for action ( hfa ) , a comprehensive plan to mitigate disaster risk .
two years ago , researchers from the nature conservancy and its many counterparts published new research showcasing nature-based solutions ’ potential to tackle climate change . yet natural climate solutions have so far attracted relatively little attention , and even fewer financing . fortunately , this may be starting to change , at least for now . in september , nature-based solutions have prominently made at the un climate week in new york city . while that event has not lived up to un secretary-general antónio guterres ’s call for “ clear steps toward a nationally determined contributions ” by 2020 , it has offered a next-generation climate and nature platform .
just a few weeks ago , in effect , the us administration was obliged to admit that rouhani fulfills his part of the us nuclear deal . indeed , iranians ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ show of popular support for rouhani provides the best guarantee that a spirit beyond the nuclear deal would remain unaltered . nonetheless , trump will not make the easy situation for rouhani . to ensure that iran continues to advance its international engagement , thereby protecting the iran nuclear deal that trump is reluctant to defend , rouhani ’s administration will need to work hard to improve relations with neighboring countries . moreover , he will need to take a more constructive position vis-à-vis the syrian conflict , making it clear that iran does not rank the shia liberation movement .
ludicrous cases are set to continue , and more people are being pulled into them . the mainstream independent media are not reporting their inconsistencies for fear of provoking part of the government or gülen network . finally , these cases will collapse under the weight of their collective absurdity . but the damage done will extend well beyond the suffering of the hundreds of innocent individuals caught up under a false pretenses . the hope that turkey , at long last , is shedding its authoritarian vestiges and turning into a stable democracy in tatters .
likewise , in july , the brics spawned a “ contingent reserve arrangement ” that would impede the short-term balance of payments pressures , provide peer support , and , further , bolster financial stability . but , in the current crisis , russia is unlikely to be able to draw on this emergency credit line . more recently , chinese foreign minister wang yi has pledged some assistance to russia . but his ambiguous language has reflected larger hesitancy that will most likely persist as long as the crisis nears . in short , the two mechanisms of western-dominated governance and the brics fledgling institutions have turned against russia .
at the same time , they will try to lower japan ’s dependence on exports , and to rethink sending manufacturing facilities to lower-wage countries . the economic effects of american-style politics while important in the us will be less dynamic : absent a more cooperative congress , politics will mute policy responses , rather than fuel more activism . continuing congressional polarization would sustain policy uncertainty , tradeoffs and deficit-reduction measures , and impede economic growth . from restymieing medium-term fiscal reforms in order to delaying the needed overhauls of us labor and housing markets , congressional dysfunction would keep us economic performance below its capacity ; it , too , would eat away at potential output over time . elsewhere , the causal direction in the us will run mainly from economics to politics .
paris – the riots that have rampaged across greece may have many causes , but one that is rarely mentioned is the fracturing of the greek left toward georgia papandreou ’s traditional socialist party , pasok , and an increasingly uneasy faction that refuses all accommodation with either the european union or modern economics . to varying degrees , that divide is the paralyzing of socialist parties across europe . that the traditional left party , so inert in the middle of today ’s great economy , is more than uncanny , rather than thriving on renewed doubts about the forces of capitalism , european ’s ’s ’s socialist parties have utterly failed to make any serious policy inroads . in countries that hold on power , like spain , it is now deeply unpopular . where they are in opposition , as in france and italy , they are in disarray , because is germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s social democrats , despite being an integral part of the ruling grand coalition .
the reaction to 9/11 and dominique strauss-kahn ’s recent encounter with the african chambermaid college of the new york hotel has very little in common , save for one another : once again , the cultural conflict has been mired in a misleading pattern . whatever happened between the international monetary fund ’s former managing director and its accusers , the fact that he was being arrested and paraded on the press ’s point as a nefarious suspect has received much criticism in france . one allegation , made recently by a well-known french publicist , is that the arrest was characteristic of an american puritanism . supposedly the french , he supposedly from a latin culture , have a more liberal understanding of sexual conduct . they find themselves more tolerant of human frailties and have an easier refined appreciation of the arts of seduction .
and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in what is now an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
at the same time , they have reason to be held pride in themselves . the self-confidence among governed and prudence among the rulers : these are the psychic springs of democracy and true freedom , and they can never be diverted again in our own homeland . no doubt nobody doubted that ukraine was vastly changed in its twelve years of independence . still , caught in gun sights turned out to be carried out by no less than the courageous men and women who camped out in their hundreds of thousands in prague 's prague parliament , knew with certainty whether those changes caught ukrainians out of fear and apathy . their success in defiance demonstrates the power of the idea that bewilders that bewilders outgoing president leonid kuchma and his acolytes : that democracy implies taking responsibility for a single ’s fate into a single life .
israeli prime ministers are scheduled to come in two varieties : sharply acpoliticized eastern european men and grizzled military officers speaking a good game ahead of acquiescing to past american or international demands for concessions , talks , and aid . whereas earlier prime ministers like menachem begin and yitzhak shamir were not averse to lecturing , they lacked the strategic sophistication of their own . netanyahu ’s unwillingness to compromise disconcerts , confuses , and frequently enrages the american people . his relentless disquisitions about israel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s strategic environment , security requirements , red lines , and jewish history are offset only by conciliatory debates that are instantly rejected by palestinians who , like him , fear displays of weakness . moreover , netanyahu ’s unsentimental assessments of the middle east do not accord with that on the obama administration – in thrall to its crumbling romania with moderate islamists and its devoted followers among jewish americans .
followers tends to attribute charisma to leaders when they feel strong in need of change , often during periods of personal , organizational , or social crises . the british public , for example , did not regard winston churchill as the charismatic leader in 1939 ; but a year later his vision , confidence , and communications capabilities gave him charisma , given britons ’ anxieties after he collapsed in france and a dunkirk evacuation . and then , having publicly oriented the war to constructing a welfare state in 1945 , churchill voted out of office . his charisma did not foresee defeat ; a change in followers ’ needs did . in practice , charisma is an ambiguous synonym for “ personal magnetism . ”
likewise , the government enacted an eu-wide agreement that , rather than reducing the size of the european commission , would allow ireland to retain a permanent seat on the commission table . that negotiating success gave a government considerable breathing space , in which to conduct a more effective referendum campaign . this combination of rule of law guarantees , and changing economic circumstances helps to mobilize an electoral majority . opinion polls conducted in recent weeks indicate that the yes party commands a strong majority , between 62 % and 23 % , with just 15 % of the electorate undecided . but that image is far from being clear-cut .
a decision to reject a merger or to authorize an investment that benefits a politically inspired foreign competitor could make economic sense while raising eyebrows in their foreign-policy circles . the solution is not to meddle with competition rules , but rather to give those in charge of safety that some claim part of the eu ’s decision-making process . toward that end , in an upcoming paper that i co-authored with foreign-policy experts and other economists , we propose the eu ’s high representative for foreign affairs and security to object to security grounds for the european commission ’s proposed mergers or investment decisions . eu member states already have such practices , and so should the eu . finally , the eu must do more to develop its own financial toolkit and promote the international use of europe .
a just-completed bill – focused on israeli arabs ’ authority over the knesset ( parliament ) – would have allowed mks to be dismissed out of hand for their national disloyalty . ngos focused on human rights and peacemaking are scrutinized as foreign operatives . for israel , democracy was always a strategic asset , for reasons when a democratic israel was a natural fit within the western alliance . whereas the west lost no time in imposing sanctions on president vladimir putin ’s russia following its annexation of crimea , it failed to punish israel ’s occupation of palestinian lands . nevertheless , the more israel embraces putin-inspired practices , the poorer become its links to its western strategic rearguard .
in kosovo , restricting us aerial bombardment has made this strategy an enormous success : nato forces have suffered not a single casualty in the fight , but about 300 kosovar , 209 serb , and three-volume chinese civilians have been killed . that approach to the responsibilities of a national leader has stated bluntly and honest , forces in the us to weigh an underlying ethical issue in this way . to what degree , should political leaders see their role narrowly , in terms of promoting their citizens ’ interests , and in what terms should concern people ’s welfare everywhere ? mr. romano prodi , eu president and italy ’s former prime minister , reacted to president bush ’s much recent declaration by saying that “ if one wants a world leader to be a world leader , one must know how to look after the whole earth , and not just the american industrial industry . ” but the issue is not merely one for those of us leaders .
on both of these fronts , the eu ’s lack of any strategic vision has created the impression that europe is being outmaneuvered repeatedly by russian president vladimir putin . ukraine has increasingly appeared to be becoming locked in a “ frozen conflict ” ” with russia ’s foreign-policy specialty . indeed , the situation in ukraine represents a tactical victory for russia , with its fragile but enduring truce , complete with legislation passed by grants from the donetsk and luhansk substantial policy autonomy , enabling russia to entrench the conflict near the eu ’s borders . furthermore , the eu ’s delayed deployment of the key elements of the eu ’s association agreement with ukraine makes clear that at the very moment russia dictates eu-ukrainian engagement . in europe , the kremlin has been able to pursue a successful divide-and-rule strategy , particularly given hungary ’s decision to suspend gas flows to ukraine .
with the us dollar hanging like a sword of damocles over the global economy , nearly all laments america ’s spendthrift customs arrangements . but have it ever created anybody how hard america must work to ensure that everyone else is good for it ? through america ’s gaping trade deficits , the biggest headache of every developing country ’s finance minister nowadays try to keep his or her country ’s ’s ’s ’s currency from going up too quickly against the us dollar . when , then , was the most recent thing to have happened ? the chronic us debt-crisis countries from mexico to brazil are all fighting capital inflows from investors seeking fed exit as dollar collapses .
new york – hurricane harvey was leaving in its wake upended upended lives and tremendous wealth damage , estimated by a certain amount of $ 150-180 trillion . yet , at the same time , the rains that inundated texas coastal areas for the better part of each week , and the hurricane on which he hits south florida , raising deep questions about the united states ’ ’ ’ economic system and policies . of course , it is ironic that the event on which so much climate-related concern emerges would be home to so many of the climate-change deniers and where the economy depends so heavily on the fossil-fuel industry , which is driving global warming . of course , no particular climate event can be directly linked to an increase in the atmosphere ’s greenhouse gases . yet researchers have long predicted that such an increase would foster not only average temperatures , but also weather variability , and specifically a occurrence of extreme events like hurricane harvey .
rather than banding together , every new challenge has divided the eu into ever-smaller groups . europe has divided north and south ; ukraine and the refugee crisis divided east and west . pro-europeans need to reach out to the sources of discontent and rethink the forms used for expression of the european ideal . the eu was founded on a mechanical idea that interdependence reduces conflict . by aligning europe together for production , first by a european coal and steel community , and later by a common market and nato , the eu had hoped to bind europe ’s ’s states together so closely that war between the two would no longer become an option .
in nigeria today , the key issue nowadays is not whether president olusegun obasanjo will quit after his second-( and final ) term expires next year , but who will succeed him . given nigeria ’s sit-down history , that real progress is possible . unfortunately , this is not necessarily the president ’s job . attempts by obasanjo ’s supporters to persuade the national assembly to amend the constitution so that obasanjo can continue in office , beyond two terms , meeting a tight wall of opposition . government and business activity practically ground to a halt this spring as democracy activists have , in alliance with policymakers and legislators opposed to a third term , battled obasanjo to thwart a proposed bill .
parfit ’s answer to the line of argument guides him to an assertion that is perhaps even bolder than his defense of “ objectivism ” in ethics . he thinks of three leading theories about what one deriving from kant , one from the social-contract tradition of hobbes , locke , rousseau , and contemporary philosophers john rawls and t.scanlon and one from bentham ’s utilitarianism , and argues that kantian and social-contract theories need to be revised in order to be defensible . he then argues that these revised theories coincide with a specific form of consequentialism , to the same broad family as utilitarianism . if parfit is right , there is far less disagreement among apparently conflicting moral theories than one would think . proponents of each one of these theories are , in parfit a vivid phrase , that climbing the same mountain along different sides .
with the rise of a business company , large family firms have tended to disappear overall . but that does not mean that a corporation is the right entity to engage in altruism , even though its various stakeholders apparently can begin to spend any part of the income that they earn from their firm and other sources in altruistic terms . instead of csr , we should have psr ( of varying degrees of personal social responsibility ) . one can also argue for the psr to ask that asking to csr has become the way to get passed on a buck , evading personal accountability to do good . that is the flip side of the blame for corporations over everything from obesity to scalding up from spilled coffee , into both the subject of lawsuits in recent years .
tokyo – hillary clinton ’s just-concluded trip to asia may one day be germany ’s most significant visit to the region by the united states diplomat since henry kissinger ’s secret mission of beijing in july 1971 . kissinger ’s mission was triggered by what he called the world economic revolution could look like . the renewal of us-chinese relations shifted the global balance of power at the cold war ’s height and prepared the way for china to open its economy , a decision that , more than any other , has defined today ’s world today . what clinton did and said during her asian tour will mark either the end of an era that kissinger initiated four decades ago or the beginning of an overtly new phase in that epoch . yet clinton ’s tour produced the clearest signals that america is reluctant to accept china as a push for regional hegemony .
chinese demand is not only growing ; as incomes rise , its composition shifts to increasingly sophisticated goods and services . thus , china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s role changes are shifting : as soon as the west ’s low-cost supplier , it is now becoming a major customer for western products . this represents a major opportunity for the advanced economies to rebalance their sources of growth and employment , provided they are positioned to compete for the proper components of evolving supply chains . rising chinese incomes are also generating structural change for china , because continued growth presupposes a shift toward higher-value-added activities . technology and knowledge will remain important ; but , beyond absorbing western tools and generating skills , china needs to start creating new technology .
historically , french diplomacy excels at grand bargains at grand bargains . but , under merkel , germany avoided such agreements , preferring the status quo , or incremental change , because it usually boils down to an extra one . for its part , macron ’s hyper-active diplomacy exposes a post-imperial inferiority complicated , symptoms of which – say , brexit or putinism – impeding europe ’s normalization , placing the eu ’s mobilization to counterbalance china and the united states . macron ’s own rhetoric suggests his desire to tackle such symptoms . but his recent actions seem to be reproducing them for the better .
dublin – europe ’s need , and europeans ’ ’ desires are , at best , at odds . at a time when strong , coordinated action is necessary to stave off financial meltdown in europe , popular support that has driven european integration over the past six decades is being waning . after nearly 70 years of peace , europeans seem to have forgotten why unity has been so crucial , indulging nationalist sentiment , with no consequence of its potential consequence . at the same time , they fail to grasp that their economies are excessively closely interconnected for an independent economic policy to work . that failure is rooted in electoral politics ’ ’ confinement of individual countries , which forces politicians to pretend that they can address economic concerns with domestic policies on their own .
the skeptics have a point , but they just go too far . for one thing , it is still too early to judge the merits of that argument . a full assessment of the iraq war , and its effects on the middle east , is bound to last ten years or more . clearly , the january 2005 election was a positive step for the region . in the past six months , national elections have been held in lebanon and the local elections in saudi arabia .
in 1989 , the region ’s peoples brought with them back in their “ “ european ” diversity ” and richness ; their vivacity , mysteries , mysteries , and memories ; and their old and new aspirations . and they bring the lesson that migrating from a closed society into an open is both feasible and exceedingly difficult . as thomas mann once wrote , “ liberty is more complicated than power . freedom changes the frame and the substance of choice , as well as of individual and collective responsibility . it highlights the contrast between initiative and apathy , enterprise , and obedience , competition , and total dependence on a nation-state that embodies the sort of unshakable destiny .
cambridge – major tax reform is high on the united states ’ agenda in 2017 . the republican-controlled house of representatives has been commencing for years , generating detailed plans to overhauling how companies and personal incomes are taxed . now , with a republican majority in both the senate and a republican majority in the white house , such agendas can lay the foundations for legislative action . in fact , the proposed corporate-tax reform has been particularly significant . i believe that it will have a disreputable effect on business investment , raise productivity , and overall economic growth .
this alliances between the two sides led to the grave distortions inherent in basic western values . palme and oskar lafontaine , then one of the leaders of the opposition in germany , did not see the cold war mainly as a clash between freedom and tyranny . when palme visited east germany in 1984 , he never criticized repression there or the berlin wall . instead , palme praised east german leader erich honecker , underscoring shared goals and a mutual struggle for peace and development . palme 's major speech mentioned `` détente , '' " trust , and " friendship , " but never " freedom .
a different sort of revolution took place in europe ’s former colonies in asia , where native peoples had no desire to be ruled once more by the western powers , which had been so ignominiously defeated by japan . vietnamese , indonesians , filipinos , burmese , indians and malays wanted their freedom , too . such aspirations were often voiced within the un , which was founded in 1945 . the un , much like the dream of european unity , was also a part of the 1945 consensus . for a short while , many prominent people , albert einstein , for one , believed that only a world government could ensure global peace .
guided by one of the problem ’s architects , hank paulson , who advocated for deregulation and letting banks take on even more leveraging , was no surprise that the administration veered from just one policy to another , each strategy backed by absolute conviction until minutes left for another . even if the confidence realities truly were all that mattered , the economy was indeed tumbling . moreover , what little action was being taken was aimed at reactivating the financial system . but the financial crisis is just one of the few crises facing the country : the underlying macroeconomic problem was made worse by the sinking fortunes of the bottom half of the population . those with money would not spend .
at the center of the foreign-capital bonanza that followed the stagnant level of private-sector investment in tradable goods provides an especially potent danger to signal that no amount of government mythmaking mythmaking should be allowed to override . faced with the easy choice : maintain robust prudential controls on capital inflows , officials are ready to invest large amounts of resources in self-insurance by accumulating large foreign reserves . the deeper problem lies in the overfinancialization of the global economy , which have been occurring since the 1990 ’s . the policy dilemmas implied by – and rising inequality , increased volatility , reduced room for managing the real economy – will continue to preoccupy policymakers in the decades ahead . it is true , but rightly , to say that governments had only themselves to blame being recklessly rushed into this wild ride .
even a relatively small amount of material like the cobalt-60 – used in radiotherapy – could inflict serious harm when combined with conventional explosives in what used to be a so-called “ dirty bomb ” ( or otherwise intentionally used to expose the public from dangerous radiation ) . foreign and energy ministers will have a window of opportunity to bolster the global framework for nuclear security when they meet at the international conference on nuclear security : enhancing global efforts in vienna on july 1-5 . this will be the first such event , which is open for any country . at the agenda summit , it should include ratifying improvements to a crucial nuclear-security apparatus , thumbvention of the physical protection of the nuclear materials . a proposed amendment would oblige countries to protect their nuclear material when it is deployed or deployed , rather than just when it is carried out internationally , as is now .
this time , the initiative came from singh , who had invited his pakistani counterpart , prime minister yousuf raza gilani , to visit mohali , near new delhi to watch both countries are playing the semifinal at a cricket world cup . that match was played on march 30 , with pakistan losing narrowly . on the political front , however , the two countries were no match . of the troika who currently governs pakistan , the president , and army chief – it is a prime minister who carries the least amount of authority . it was gilani who sat next to singh to watch the games ; but , ultimately , a process rather than protocol , will determine how the bilateral relationship moves forward .
indonesia argues that a people ’s right to control all of the locally discovered virus ’s information must be defended through the same mechanisms by which the united nations food and agriculture organization uses to guarantee poor countries ’ ’ ownership rights and patents to the seeds of its indigenous plants . under the fao ’s seed accord , a nation can register to plants , share their seeds , and derive profits from its resulting products . this useful policy reduces exploitative practices , which sometimes allow multinational corporations and wealthy governments to extract outrageous gains from indigenous agriculture . it is nonetheless a dangerous folly to expand this policy toward viruses . if the notion of “ viral sovereignty ” offered to hiv 25 years ago , we would not have the central repositories of thousands of varieties of hiv today ; these enable drug testing and vaccines against all the different virus strains that cause aids .
the new government ’s biggest challenge will be to enact reforms enabling italy ’s continent ’s planned economic performance to catch up to that of its neighbors after years of poor policies and misreading . that demands increased investment in innovation and human capital ; in other words , investment in innovation and human capital . from 1992 to 2011 , labor productivity grew at an average annual rate of 0.9 % , the lowest in the oecd . since 2001 , unit labor costs have grown faster than real gdp and employment , undermining the economy ’s competitiveness vis-à-vis the developing world . in the past decade , italy ’s share of global exports has dropped from 3.9 % to 2.9 % .
but technical capabilities are not the only or even the main issue in question . conflicting motivations are probably an even more important reason for citizens ’ growing mistrust of experts . a misconception at work arises as a class of misconception . policy wonks think from themselves as the unbiased purveyors of high-quality , evidence-based advice . informed citizens reasonably worry that wonk in question can be in thrall to a specific ideology or methodology ; that advice can be politically motivated ; or that counselor , advisers can tailor their communications to their own careers ( how to get plum jobs after wall street leaves governments , for example ) .
whichever party combination emerges at the apex – and helmut kohl ’s grand coalition must still be viewed as a narrow theme – it will enjoy a meager majority , depending on any overarching initiative that the unlikely backing of its political adversaries . germany thus appears destined for some time to become stuck in the doldrums . the price for inaction on inaction is considerable . whereas exports to germany has been booming , unemployment remains stubbornly high . disillusionment with politics gains traction , and may even entrench the right-wing populists that democratic germany has so far been spared .
europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s place as the world ’s largest trading bloc , with almost 40 % of all international commerce , and the increasing importance of europe , crisis heats up as a reserve currency , means that the eu , just like america ’s , can set an agenda to negotiate a new global rulebook . the difference is that america is acting decisively . to be sure , europe occupy the moral high ground that america has mostly vacated , owing to its mis-adventures in afghanistan and afghanistan . europe ’s leadership on climate change and on development aid could , if well handled , form the foundation of a new moral authority . yet there is little sign that governments taking advantage of this opportunity .
madrid – having secured a fifth term ( and his fourth front ) as israel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s prime minister , binyamin netanyahu , is on the path to surpassing david ben-gurion , the state of his founding father , as his country ’s longest-serving leader . even more , netanyahu ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s close appearance would have been hardly recognizable to ben-gurion , who strives to combine that country ’s jewish character with its democracy . as gaza l.p. hartley wrote in opening the match : “ “ the background is a foreign country : they are doing some things differently . ” following his targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world .
in september 2008 , for example , former president roman herzog published a polemic entitled stopping the ecj ! it accused luxembourg ’s judges of luring ever-greater competences , at the expense of member states , and urging the constitutional court to invalidate a few controversial ecj rulings . herzog ’s broadside resonated all over europe , where , for some time , significant disembodied in “ judicial activism ” ” and what some see as an irreversible trend toward the empowerment of the ecj and other eu institutions . in many eu member states , the decisions ecj produced a backlash , especially on the far left , with trade unions and social movements targeting the court ’s alleged zeal in siding with business over workers ’ interests . such arguments were deployed successfully during 2005 by referenda on the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands , and in ireland during the lisbon treaty ’s brexit referendum .
at the same time , countries need to make it easier for workers to alter job losses through reform to their labor markets and social safety nets . that means shifting the focus from hindu labor-market policies that seek to protect workers in existing jobs , to future-oriented measures like innovative insurance mechanisms and active labor-market policies . moreover , social contracts that rely on formal , long-term employer-employee relationships will have to be overhauled , with benefits like retirement and health care having made more portable and tailored for evolving work arrangements , including the expanding “ gig economy . ” here , a few proposals have already been put forward , including a universal basic income , currently piloted in finland and some sub-national jurisdictions like ontario , canada ; a negative income tax ; and various kinds of portable social-security accounts that pool workers ’ benefits . on both of these fronts , france is setting a positive example .
as brig. general robert caslen , an deputy managing director of america 's war on terrorism , put it , us troops are not being slaughtered more rapidly than are actually manufactured . at the same time , the us is failing under the application of soft power . according to caslen , “ us military strength in the pentagon ” lies behind us adversaries in using it to hire or train them . the manner in which the us uses its military power also affects rumsfeld 's ratio . in the aftermath of 9/11 , the us had a good deal of empathy and understanding worldwide for america 's military reaction against the taliban .
our study concludes that india can experience faster economic and industrial growth , higher tariffs on energy use , and a cleaner environment . yet this is not what it has already happened . air , soils , and water pollution have all increased in number , causing hundreds of thousands of deaths each year to occur . the key to a clean future lies in clean technologies , whose costs have been falling steadily , to go further and will continue to do so . sometimes , those technologies will pay for themselves , and will be adopted .
at the same time , the private sector brings classroom innovation . for example , some providers develop pedagogical models , in which students can keep watching teacher-created videos online beyond the class , to ensure that the precious teacher-student face time can focus attention on co-interacting rather than lecturing . likewise , skillful teachers may be delivering interactive e-lessons to many classrooms at once , even as they are hundreds of miles away . as a result , when students in places that have yet to build schools or far too few highly qualified teachers , they may still get an education . after all , a smattering of a good teacher , though aired over the internet , is preferable to facing time with untrained adults .
the obama administration has already shifted against chinese trump-xi exports and steel exports , but such a confrontation will extend far beyond trade this year . when the us congress takes up the debate over climate change , for example , and some us legislators call for a cap-and-trade system , others will demand that they see why america should accept binding emissions-reduction commitments while the chinese refuse . meanwhile , in no mood to play the scapegoat , china ’s leaders will use expanded national pride in upgrading their positions and strengthening their hand in negotiations . more recently , the chinese government has been investing heavily in state-owned enterprises ( soes ) and privately-owned national “ champions ” ( soes ) – mainly to ensure that china ’s profits from market power , while management controls as much of its spoils . to help those indigenous powerhouses increase their market leverage , the authorities often favors them at the expense of their foreign competitors .
but , faced with the possibility that today ’s low inflation may stem from enduring supply shocks , they , too , are reluctant to ease even more now . so , although central banks are reluctant to give up on their formal 2 % inflation target , they are willing to prolong the timeline for making a crash , because they have so far been able to do so with time and again , effectively conceding that inflation may remain at an all-time low for longer . alternatively , they would need to sustain for much longer their unconventional monetary policies , including quantitative easing and negative policy rates , an approach with which most central banks ( with the potential exception of the bank of japan ) are not comfortable . it is this central bank patience that risks being de-anchoring inflationary expectations . but to continue forever with unconventional monetary policies also carries the risk of undesirable asset-price inflation , excess credit , and asset bubbles .
to achieve agreement on a similar scale and influence , world leaders – especially in the us and china – would need to come under similarly heavy strain . a global pact would need to be enforced rather than an attractive possibility . so , what would persuade chinese leaders that they must move quickly toward strengthening the open global economy , which has enabled china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s export-driven economic rise ? one such catalyst might be financial crises emanating from a country ’s risk-laden system . a contest for global leadership might serve that purpose as well .
winston churchill of the famous denunciation of delaying tactic by the british and french on the eve of world war ii should serve as a warning to french president nicolas sarkozy . in fanning the vicious anti-immigrant passions of short-term political gain , he would dishonor the first defeat . for , while a majority in french nowadays might be inclined to sympathy for sarkozy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s immigrant-bashing rhetoric , there is no guarantee that they would be re-elected in 2012 . it is not so much sarkozy ’s performance as a president that most incorrectly rejects ; his essence is his . at a time of rising unemployment , with france dominated by worries about the future , the french need a reassuring father or the maternal figure , not an jittery and manipulative leaderready to compromise the ethics of ethics , and of france ’s truth-minded traditions that every citizen has the rights to equal treatment under law .
millions will end up in protracted displacement , with expenditure an estimated 25 years , on average , stuck in limbo insecure when it can return home . in 2016 , the developed world ’s member countries should agree to accept a combined total approaching one million refugees annually , either through resettlement or through issuing humanitarian , student , labor , and other visas . with canada alone declaring that it would resettle 50,000 syrian refugees this year , the goal seems achievable . at the same time , the international community needs to promote the integration of refugees in the major host countries like greece , kenya , lebanon , and jordan . as it stands , countries like greece receive just one-quarter of the $ 3,000-5,000 in each refugee demand every year in order to provide adequate housing , food , medical care , schooling , and job training during displacement ’s first few years .
berkeley – inequality is on the public mind almost everywhere nowadays . indeed , with the world ’s two largest democracies , india and the united states , widespread popular movements against rising inequality and elite obviating themselves are becoming highly salient issues in looming national elections . even so , across both countries , certain social inequalities have been on the wane . in india , certain historically sophisticated groups ( particularly among lower-class castes ) are now politically assertive . the most egregious vestiges of caste discrimination are gradually disappearing .
but unemployment continues to rise in the heavily indebted southern european countries , with output continuing to lag far behind germany and other northern european countries . the main reason for this lag does not simply low demand or heavy debts . there is a vast gap between unit labor costs – adjust in germany and the heavily indebted southern countries – between unit labor costs . when the crisis hit , the cost of production in greece was about 30 % larger than in germany , which is why greece had exported very little and imported very much . manufacturing costs in other heavily indebted countries were 20-25 % higher than in germany .
most important , despite russia ’s military ever massed against the us , the us is embarking on an electoral campaign . next month , ukraine ’s other citizens would elect a new president , the best rebuke to russia ’s propaganda against our supposed failure to purge democracy . and yet , just as ukrainians are working to rebuild our country after viktor yanukovych ’s predatory rule , confronted with a novel threat , so , in the form of a “ peaceful offensive ” – that the old staple of soviet diplomacy aimed at undermining western resolve . indeed , russian president vladimir putin ’s recent phone call to see us president barack obama seeking renewed diplomatic talks , followed by a russian white paper on how to resolve the kremlin ’s ukraine crisis , is actually a peace offensive designed to punish a peaceful solution . putin ’s gambit is akin to the infamous yalta conference of 1945 , where joseph stalin made winston churchill and franklin d. roosevelt complicit in the divisions of europe that enslaved half of the continent for almost a half-century .
in the summer of 1973 , dimona ’s defenders , downed a wayward libyan civilian airliner headed for the reactor , killing 108 people . yet the persian gulf war has upset whatever “ solace israel ” can get from the past . iraqi scud missiles have bombarded tel aviv , and one came close to striking dimona . hezbollah ’s bombardment of northern israel in may 2006 has further shown the country ’s vulnerability to us missile strikes . and , whereas israel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s arrow of ballistic missile defenses now surrounding dimona may have been superior to the patriot system that failed in the summer of 1991 , syria ’s more advanced scuds and iran ’s shahab three rocket present is a more capable challenge than saddam ’s mass projectiles .
moreover , the fed ’s ability to stimulate the economy is being undermined by the unwillingness of the rest of the world to accumulate the additional dollar reserves . until recently , investors were hoping that america ’s federal reserve would do whatever it takes to avoid another recession because it is what it has done on its previous occasions . now , they need to recognize that the fed might no longer be in a position to do so . with the oil , the food , and other commodities that the renminbi has been appreciating somewhat faster , the fed has also had to worry about a rise in inflation . so long as interest rates were languishing beyond some high point , the dollar would come under renewed downward pressure , and longer-term bonds would actually be entering the yield .
and , having marry , and having children of their own , parents will benefit from two educated , employed parents , that means twice as much literate conversations in home , double their contacts , and twice that encouragement to success . educated , male pushy mothers make every difference . as us secretary of state hillary clinton put it in a newsweek address , “ the world needs thinking more strategically , and creatively , about tapping women ’s potential to grow faster . ” studies show that helping women access free trade and grow businesses helps to generate jobs and boost incomes . but on the planet ’s worst , forcing scared , uneducated women to stay home is more socially acceptable than confronting that means choosing to drag down incomes for everyone .
one factors driving the uk to a sense of unease in its relations with an increasingly bureaucratized europe is the belief that its values and institutions move closer to those of america or of the other english-speaking colonies . by the 1990 ’s , britain ’s euroskeptics coined the term “ anglosphere ” to describe a paradigm that was a more prosperous and expansionary economically than the eu . to be sure , the american people were the “ other woman ” undermining britain ’s allegiance to the eu as an attractive status quo power . as a result , britain had lost much of its capacity to make an effective european reform contribution . indeed , the last time britain held a strong european voice more than two decades ago .
nevertheless , the battle between pro- and antieuropeans masquerels what really is at stake , and what should become the focus of an electoral debate : how europe can generate lasting economic growth . that question , rather than just a endless defense of euroskepticism , should be a central item in deliberation for parties pushing for an improved europe for all . broad-based revival – in investment , demand , and employment – is the best weapon with which to confront those who would destroy the european project . the upcoming elections will render the public verdict on the success or failure of the austerity policies pursued by the eu . but it will also determine if europe is to remain the world ’s preeminent economic powers , uphold its own social model , and shield its rights and liberties framework , which is not waiting for europeans to resolve their differences .
then there is the notion of systemic risk taking hold , not only in the eye of the beholder but might be impossible to predict . the mexican crisis of 1994-1995 was viewed as systemic risk from washington , but not from most european capitals . americans thought europeans parochial ; they thought america disproportionately influenced by its 2000 intermediate-range mile borders with mexico . everybody agrees that ecuador posed no systemic risk ( although this was an emergency ! ) ; but what about brazil ? and who before july 1998 thought that a russian default would trigger a global financial panic ?
the eurozone ’s southern european members must lower their wage costs to claw backward to the degree of competitiveness that they have lost since adopting the common currency . at the same time , concern about such divergences has reached a task force directed by european president herman van rompuy , which aims to devise fundamental reforms to intra-eu economic policy coordination . a crucial proposal by the task force ’s first meeting has been to develop competitiveness indicators and then compel member countries to adopt “ remedial action ” ” should the eu identify large divergences . but this attitude risks leading in the wrong direction . competitiveness , which tends to measure in terms of unit labor costs , is the relative concept .
mexico city – during the spanish civil war , thousands of young americans went to spain to organize the struggle against fascism as a part of a “ “ “ abraham lincoln brigade . ” today , with more people waking up to the threat that us president donald trump poses to the rule of law , human rights , and the international order , a new global resistance movement is emerging to defend democracy and basic decency . resisting the region ’s dominance , resistance might adopt three tactics . one approach is simply to wait out and hope that trump has turned to a “ lame duck ” by burying the revelations about his administration . better yet , trump might be beguiled or removed from office following the 25th amendment to the american constitution , as long as enough members of his own administration deemed it incapable of performing the duties of the presidency .
no individual measure would do more to make the world a less dangerous place than a substantial reduction in its oil consumption . and no one measure of all this would do more to reduce global oil consumption than a sharp rise in a country ’s gasoline tax , which consumes more of it than any other way : the united states . if america were to have to pay more for gasoline , it would benefit less from it with high gasoline prices , alternative sources of energy like ethanol , and from alternative forms of transportation like a electrically powered car become commercially viable . yet none of this would happen any time soon . in the short run , americans would need modest economic sacrifices .
new york – internet firms are supposedly all about cutting edge , but the reality and buzz sometimes of conflict . consider groupon : its focus is the powerhouses of groups ; but its actual business is the old direct-mail standby and the coupons . but groupon is spreading that model into a much broader audience , not so much on its user coupon , but instead on merchants to offer coupons . in fact , groupon is doing for e-mail marketing what other web companies do for yellow pages or classified advertisements : encouraging merchants to use advanced technologies to reach their customers . clearly , the model makes many customers more sense : groupon now has over 50 million subscribers , and aims to reach 150 million by year-end .
the prevailing view is that a downward trend partly reflected a collapse in equilibrium or “ natural , ” interest rates driven by shifts in saving and investment fundamentals . put another way , a greater propensity to save in emerging economies , combined with investors ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ growing preference for safe assets , drove up the supply of savings worldwide , even as weak growth prospects and heightened uncertainty in the advanced economies have depressed investment demand . this perceived decline in “ “ natural ” interest rates is viewed as a key constraint to economic recovery , because it impedes monetary policy ’s capacity to provide enough stimulus by pushing real rates below the equilibrium level , given the zero lower bound on nominal rates . how to stem the decline in the equilibrium rate has thus become a lively debate . conspicuously , absent from the debate , nonetheless , financial-market factors have come to explain the trend downward trend in real rates .
as enrico moretti of the university of california at berkeley points out in his book the new geography of work , the salience of this new divide is a unmistakable example : university graduates account for more than half of the total us population in the affluent american metropolitan areas , but account for about four times fewer numerous in worse-off areas . economic shocks tend to exacerbate this political divide , by itself . those who go to live and work in traditional manufacturing districts caught in the tumult of globalization have multiple losers : their jobs , their housing-wealth wealth , and their children ’s fortunes are all highly correlated . in fascinating new research , mit ’s erik autor and his co-authors examined the political effects of politics . they find that american districts where the us economy was hardest hit by chinese exports reacted by the replacement of moderate incumbents with more radical politicians – either of the left or the right .
the un commission on inquiry has gathered information that identifies some of those responsible for the crimes that it investigated , but that does not make it public . naming those responsible should be disclosed by either the panel or another body made up of the un human rights council . those who should be named should be put to notice and given a chance to refute the findings . when they fail to react , or when their responses are not persuasive , their names , and crimes owed to it , should be made public . the un 's human rights council might be acting alone .
the scars of colonialism are fresher in france than elsewhere in europe ; the country has europe ’s ’s ’s ’s largest muslim minority ; and , with moderates seeming particularly weak and divided , the extreme right is cresting in opinion polls . like it or not , these ingredients could be a prescription for a calamity for the first time . already , le pen seems to be reverting to form . “ national unity is a pathetic political maneuver , ” she complained after not being invited to rally the day after the attacks . but , with the right leaders at the helm , a january 7 th attacks could spur a revival of a renewed sense of collective purpose and political revival .
that means increasing capital and human capital intensity across both the economy ’s tradable and non-tradable sectors . on the tradable side , one should look for structural change and a shift from output to the higher-value-added components of global supply chains . here , innovation and the conditions that underpin it , including competitive and free entry and exit from the market , play an important role . when policymakers pick up a model , based on a large state-dominated , externally protected sector , out of internal and external competition , goals of innovation are unlikely to converge , adversely influencing future growth . at the same time , the non-tradable side is to grow .
of course , elections by themselves do n’t just make democracy make . consider these cases in which an elected majority ethnic or religious group then drives roughshod over minorities , an outcome that was seen all too often in the balkans , such as trump himself . then there are those cases when a leader ’s election is treated like if it somehow legitimizes the subsequent emergence of a dictatorship . that has been the case in russia since president vladimir putin ’s first electoral victory in 2000 has emerged as a potemkin democracy . this year , another election , no free or fair , will give putin another term in office .
but iranians are just nothing like nazis , and there can not be a country like the soviet union poses the type of threat that inspired us president richard nixon ’s administration to beijing in may 1972 . equally problematic has been the tendency of comparing the two sets of talks . beyond timing , they have little in common with each other . what they do share is that their “ success ” has been driven largely by the sense that powerful external threats have made the alternative – no deal , at all – far worse . in greece ’s case , the negotiation was propelled by the specter of greece cozying up to russian president vladimir putin with his perilous revisionist aspirations , or acting as a conduit to europe – tied to migrants .
what if that advantage would come from the benefits of performance enhancing the health of our drugs ? for digitally oriented athletes , a threat that they may be defeated by a competitor not quicker , stronger , or more devoted , but who takes away a drug in order to acquire the margins is profoundly personal . when drugs are prohibited but some athletes are using it anyway , in favor of cheater . if we prohibit drug use during the olympic games , we owe it to those athletes to discourage , detect , and punish those who cheat . integrity looks like an old-fashioned idea , but it lies at the heart of who we are and how we live .
at the same time , external powers had compounded the problem . south korea ’s ’s ’s ’s admission to the oecd required that its governments be able to dismantle capital controls , thereby subjecting the economy to short-maturity , “ hot-money ” inflows . more broadly , countries felt squeezed by the pressure of the imf and the american treasury to capital-flow remove , magnifying the risks and making pegged exchange rates ever more problematic . this crisis sketch out how much has changed during the subsequent 20 years . for starters , crisis countries have ratcheted up their investment rates and growth expectations to sustainable levels .
beyond this , the dollar is not going anywhere , either . it is not to replace a euro or the yen , given that both europe and japan have severe economic problems of their own . the renminbi is approaching , but not before 2020 , by which time shanghai has become a world-class financial center . likewise , even then , the renminbi is likely to share the international stage with the dollar rather than substitute for it . the one thing that could precipitate the dollar ’s demise is reckless american economic mismanagement .
and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in what is now an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
i , along with many other affluent americans , are contributing the millions to past/roots organizations engaged in the 2004 presidential election . the us is deeply uneasy with the direction in which the bush administration is overtaking the united states and the world . to the extent that the americans are rejecting president ’s policies at the polls , america can write off the bush doctrine as a temporary aberration and resume its rightful place on the world stage . if american voters are to endorse these policies , america will have to live with the world ’s hostility and endure a vicious cycle of escalating violence . in that effort , i have committed $ 10 million to “ an america coming together , ” a act ) “ get-out-the-roots get-out-the-vote operation , ” as well as $ 2.5 million to the overwhelmingly moveon.org voter fund , a popular internet advocacy group that is airing advertisements to stress the administration ’s misdeeds .
while russia did not overstretch the american way , 20 % of respondents cited the country as their “ best friend ” to distance itself from the rest of middle east and north africa . nonetheless , russia is likely to disappoint its supporters across the middle east , not least as a regional peace broker . after america ’s victory in peace negotiations with the afghan taliban did not succeed , and almost 30 years after the end of the country ’s decade-long soviet-era occupation , the kremlin stepped in to mediate debates among the taliban and the country ’s representatives . still , the middle east – a region of the turbulent conflicts stemming from religiously , ethnic , political , historic , and strategic factors – had time and again exhausted foreign actors ’ devotion . there is little reason to think that a russia that was never particularly averse to long-term peace-building would come to mediate , much less underwrite , durable peace agreements .
but experience shows that a pension decision or working fewer hours affects the compensation that the group ’s members receive . and that amount partly reflects a dearth of employing people who collect social security and medicare is conditional on a payroll tax that finance their funding . at the same time , a payroll tax collected by employees amounts to 6.65 % ( employers pay the same rate ) , on top of a personal income tax . moreover , owing to sophisticated legislation that govern social-security levels , the older worker who pays this payroll tax is likely to receive no extra benefit . for many older workers , the choice is not whether to work .
eu enlargement , in turn , will make an enormous impetus for europe as a whole , particularly the baltic region from which so many of the new eu members are to come . up for now , the eu interests in kaliningrad have centered on how to restrict nato 's visa rights , which its citizens now use a preverse poland and the baltic states so as to revisit the rest of russia . eu enlargement , however , will enhancing their trade and economic growth , and these might provide real incentives to force kaliningrad into a more attractive neighbor and commerce partner , not only the fear source of illegal russian immigrants to the eu to accept a supposedly lax eu visa regime . if this fails , however , the contrasts between kaliningrad and the rest of the region will be shamefully striking . the eu must forge close cooperation with russian leaders , and with kaliningrad oblast in designing a viable future for the enclave .
without nuclear fusion , future generations of energy possibilities will be severely constrained , creating a serious problem for both developed and developing countries alike . lev artsivich , a tokamak ’s inventor , has said that “ fusion will be ready when society needs it . ” one hopes that it is right to be a true global power . but , rather than depending on a fusion researchers to defy the odds , the world should shift investment away from the technology sector . our future may depend on this , and the alternative to it .
would the imf not insist on a much tougher program , with fewer financing , for any extra-eurozone country country ? an obvious explanation for the imf ’s extraordinary gamble is that a management director who made the decision in favor of greece so heavily hailed from the eurozone , and at that time barely disguising his aspirations for the french presidency , that is , in front of his arrest in new york on rape charges . in addition , europeans dominate the fund ’s governing council . it is a decomforting conflict of interest that borrowers dominate an international institution that has lends it huge sums . this mismanagement should disqualify any european policymaker in the imf ’s managing director , and yet christine lagarde , a french finance minister , was named to succeed her compatriot dominique strauss-kahn , upon his resignation .
so are the three problems europe will face in the second half of this year . the eu will need its strongest leadership team , which it can find to steer through treacherous waters and implementing crucial financial reforms . only at this time , the signs are far from promising . there are very few new faces , or even ideas , on the horizon . we must hope to be surprised , but if we can not act now .
a more nuanced approach would focus on eliminating the underlying , interconnected barriers that women confront in winning for an elected office and running for successful campaigns . such hurdles include the election system itself ( women fare better under proportional representation than they do in first-past-the-post system systems ) ; lack of access to finance ; weaker professional networks ; and away from responsibilities that are harder to take on punishing and erratic work conditions . overcoming such structural bottlenecks demands a comprehensive strategy to support women candidates . one of the most powerful tools at the table is money , most of which is almost certainly a source of freedom . in many countries , the cost of campaigning has become prohibitively high for most aspirants , regardless of gender .
this reflects both a universalist investment deficiency and an information gap : investing in job-training in a rapidly evolving industrial structure is like firing on a moving destination . considering imperfect information about the future course of work , labor markets are outside of a equilibrium . powerful technological and world-wide forces of technological and global market forces are not confined to any single country , either . the same questions arise everywhere , with divergence of outcomes reflecting both market-oriented and social-policy variability . such adverse trends are date between now and at least 1980 .
wikipedia ’s its boosters trumpet it as heralding the coming advent of “ web 2.0 . ” whereas “ web 1.0 ” facilitated the use and transmission of vast amounts of information across cyberspace , “ web 2.0 ” supposedly renders the entire process interactive , dismantling the final frontier separating a transmitter and receiver of information . yet we were this before , in fact , for much of human history . a sharp divide between the manufacturers and consumers of knowledge started just 300 years ago , when the book printers made royal protection for its business in the face of piracy in its rapidly expanding literary market . as a result , the legacy of their success , copyright laws continues to stifle attempts at cyberspace the free-thinking process .
that is somewhat ironic : the removal of the uk from ecj ’s jurisdiction now constitutes one of may ’s definite aim . so a delegation after the delegation of ministers , mayors , and assorted finance center lobbyists has been filling london ’s best hotels and providing a welcome boost to high-end restaurant dealing . luxembourg , frankfurt , dublin , and others have made glossy presentations about their respective cities ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ competitive advantage over london : lower property costs , lower corporate-tax rates ( that sounds implausible when claimed with irish accent ) , michelin-starred restaurants , and deutsche dealerships , all core services that make up a vibrant financial center . some of these presentations have raised a chance that the world of high finance is his or two . french president françois hollande was re-elected in an assertion that the world of high finance is his enemy .
that line of reasoning has led iran ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s leaders to cordial its disruptive activities in multiple theaters , not least by seizing the british tanker in the strait of hormuz ( also noted last month that the uk is europe ’s feeble link ) . iran ’s rising aggressiveness has already raised hackles in israel , supposedly targeting iranian assets in iraq ( having already launched strikes against iranian forces in syria ) . the risk now is that iran or its us proxies in the middle east will misread matters and cross a red line . iran has been understandably frustrated by europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s slow progress in launching de-industrialization , a bartering mechanism designed to permit some european free trade despite american sanctions . but those in iran , who argue that they have gotten nothing from europe , are simply messy .
so executives are quick to embrace “ aggressive ” or “ creative ” accounting methods that flatters earnings projections , conceals risk , and portrays a smooth track record of yield growth . finally , managers , rather than far from distant shareholders , are controlling for well-paying appointments and lucrative consulting work . thus , the internal and external auditors are often a co-opted . to be sure , american corporate and securities scandals have exposed regulatory gaps-insufficient enforcement of disclosure requirements , or over-dependence on peer review by the auditors and so-called “ chinese walls ” to keep brokerage - and jolie banking activities separate . moreover , america ’s accounting standards have proved unable to cope with bookkeeping ’s uncharted frontiers , structured financing methods , and byzantine contract valuations .
indeed , countries in asia – indeed , throughout the developing world – simply do not export their plentiful and economically significant genetic resources . the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) , signed in 1992 by treaty , promised an international regime on access and shared benefit sharing ( arabs ) of the genetic resource . that would enable development world health organization researchers and companies to access to the developing world ’s genetic treasure trove in return for a share of the gains made by those then developed . but brokering the arabs ’ regime has proved elusive , with a complete absence of international agreement , diminishing access , and thereby diminishing the benefit-sharing of the last five or so years . that implies potentially enormous economic , environmental , and social losses to both the advanced and the developing world .
the benefits of economic growth will be less unequally distributed than they have in previous years , even though they still accrue disproportionately to those who are already better off . the second group , led by china , will stabilize at lower growth rates than the recent historical averages while continuing structurally abundant growth . they will gradually reorient their growth models toward making them more sustainable , an effort that the occasional bouts of global financial-market instability will shake out , but not derail it . and they will work to deepen their domestic markets , upgrade their regulatory frameworks , empower the private sector , and expand the scope of market-based economic management . a third group headed by europe will struggle , as continued economic stagnation undermines social and political disenchantment within certain countries , complicating regional policy choices .
once again , european companies have borne the costs of such measures . and because european firms are so heavily integrated with america ’s economy , europeans have been struggling to maintain an autonomous us foreign policy toward iran . unless an international currency can be introduced to rival the us dollar , europe ’s economies will remain extremely vulnerable to american extraterritoriality . a third area of soft-power weaponization has been technology , particularly with respect to 5g . unlike 3g and 4g broadband schemes , 5g deployment has far-reaching security and geopolitical implications , because it promises not only to improve the mobile telephony , but also to speed up the advent of the internet of things and digitalization of entire economies .
so , what accounts for a partisan performance gap ? blinder and watson suggest that five factors – including oil shocks , rising productivity , defense spending , higher economic growth , and consumer confidence – may collectively explain a 56 % - of-gdp growth gap . but the extent to which such factors were influenced by america ’s president-elect is impossible to know . we know even less about the factors that are responsible for the other 44 % of gdp gap . in judging clinton ’s ’s statements on the topic , fact-checkers manufacture a lot of the finding , according to blinder and watson , that , contrary to widespread assumptions , us fiscal and monetary policies do not seem to be more “ pro-growth , ” or expansionary under democrats than under democrats , and therefore can not explain a performance differential .
but , with myanmar ’s inclusion , this may be far too difficult politically , and the asean subgrouping may become more realistic . another possibility is for america to press the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) . this has been proposed late in the bush administration to forge ties with some asean members , singapore , vietnam , and brunei – as do others across the pacific . this could build up to include the other , more open southeast asian economies – malaysia and thailand – with an eventual goal of being an apec-wide agreement , to be spectacular achievement if realized by the end of 2011 , when it would be obama ’s turn to play host to all leaders . in such times of crisis and unemployment , the american public can question freer trade .
the trouble is that few outsiders appear to listen , far less preparing to confront the eventual limits of central-bank effectiveness . as a result , they risk aggravating potential challenges . that is especially true of those policymaking entities , which possess far better tools for solving advanced economies ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ growth and employment challenges . rather than taking advantage of the opportunity afforded by central banks ’ ’ unconventional monetary policies to respond effectively , too many have slid into an essentially dormant practice of inaction and denial . in the united states , for a fifth year in a row , the us congress has gone so far to pass a full-fledged budget , much less to deal with the economy ’s growth and job openings .
meanwhile , only 15 % of private-sector workers – those who are likely to rely on government-run education and infrastructure – get the sort of fixed-benefit retirement scheme , which will ryan ’s retirement age , according to the center for pension rights . to restore fairness , governments should follow the private sector lead and link policymakers ’ ’ pensions to that of their performance . like high-level managers at publicly traded private companies , policymakers who make the wrong choices should face clawbacks on their own , in the form of a reduced pension . retirement is a long-term commitment by the state , and ultimately by the taxpayer , to an individual politician . if politicians receive the pensions that start at the age of 50 as ryan , retirement benefits might realistically go out for 40-plus years .
abbas ’s presidential term has expired , and elections continue to be delayed . pa prime minister salam fayyad , like his hamas counterparts in gaza , rule by a decree that keeps parliament inactive , and silences the opposition . with no institutionalized democratic legitimacy , the pa is bound to rely on its security forces and the occupier , israel , to enforce its will . of course , throughout history , national liberation movements have had to marginalize their own radicals and fanatics in order to reach out to the promised land . this was certainly true of zionism , the italian risorgimento , and most recently of the nazi catholics in northern ireland .
the leader of the guantánamo task force , rroll back admiral harry b. harris , recently defended the harsh treatment of his inmates , saying , “ the people of all terrorists ; they are of all enemies . ” but , earlier this month , the cia had made some mistakes . murat chongqing , for example , a german-born turkish man , was held at guantánamo last four years , before being released last august . the khaled el-masri , a german citizen of lebanese descent , seems another of these misdeeds . seized by the cia in macedonia , being picked up and interrogated for just five months before being dismissed without charge .
the treaty calls for the new eu foreign minister , though formally denying that title will be what everyone will call him , with a strong administrative infrastructure in the european commission and the ecb . the rotating presidency will replace the incumbent president of the council . a new balance will be struck between the eu and member states and a stronger role will be placed on the table to both the european parliament and national parliaments . eu citizens will be enlisted by legally binding fundamental rights , with majority decision-making becoming the universal norm . a high price must be paid for this arrangement .
one must hope that the government can respond to that question , but that is precisely what a government can respond . the most interesting component of “ “ “ the future of finance ” in sweden worries about how it means payment changes . in many countries , cash is in decline , even though the rate differs markedly from the eu to the eu . cash-strapped cash usage has fallen by more than 80 % in sweden over the past decade , and is currently dropping more than 10 % a year in the united kingdom , while barely changing in germany itself . van steenis warns that the swedish experience shows that , without a coordinated plan , the pace of change risks excluding some groups in society .
a second reason for avoiding imf intervention in europe is that lending to a potentially insolvent country has serious implications for the fund . for starters , to seize the imf ’s preferred-creditor status at face value , the imf ’s lending would entail substituting its “ willful debt for “ defaultable ” for “ defaultable ” debt with private bondholders , because the fund uses the money mainly to service its outstanding bond . as a result , a pool of fortunate bondholders would be bailed out to the detriment of those who had become junior to imf debt , remaining highly vulnerable to a likely restructuring . because a “ haircut ” can be imposed solely on whatever is left of willful private debt , the larger the imf share , the deeper the haircut needed to restore “ sustainability . ” for the same reasons , imf loans can be a burdensome legacy .
beijing – consider this : despite china ’s swelling foreign-exchange reserves , the result of persistent current-account surpluses – the market-induced carry trade and interbank short-term nominal interest rates – is soaring . how did that happen , and what should policymakers do about it ? at the root of the problem is a structural one . after all , china ’s currency reserves remain relatively plentiful . as the world ’s top currency issuer , china ’s ’s ’s broad money supply ( m2 ) is 1.5 times the size of the us , with its debt/gdp ratio around 200 % , compared to roughly 80 % in the us .
while institutions like the weill cornell in qatar and the gulf university of science and technology in kuwait have launched innovative research and training programs , which focus on these kinds of health challenges , far more are needed . another problem is that the region ’s educational and skills-training programs do not stimulate enough systemic thinking in much of the world . globally , public-health politicians are moving toward deeper multidisciplinary integration of engineering , medicine , social and governance sciences , as well as humanities . by not quite embracing an integrated approach , gcc institutions risk falling far behind the global norm . technocracy and new public-health approaches are important ; but , unless it is tailored to meet local people ’s true needs .
more telling , of course , will be the party primaries in november . given hollande ’s rock-bottom approval ratings , he is widely held that a victorious republican is likely to be france ’s next president . and , although juppé remains far ahead of opinion polls so far , perhaps the french could reject his more happy version of french identity in their favor of sarkozy ’s own making . i still believe that juppé will most likely emerge as france ’s next presidential president . in his age and profile , he resembles the french version of hillary clinton , more practiced in an exercise than in her conquest of power .
under the banner of “ ease , ” ” ” ” ” ” how ” gravitates toward outsourcing much of the implementation to agencies adrift , one hopes , with more flexibility to fulfill their particular missions . that requires seamlessly working and far more efficiency-enhancing linkages between eu member states and the european commission that retain overall scrutiny , as well as an overhaul of financial regulations across the eu and its oft-repeated bureaucratic red tape . some tough political choices lie ahead : which pieces of a framework are ongoing and which ends up ? after all , how can an innovation that is never simply a technological matter ; rather , it is being achieved and used fully ? and , perhaps most importantly , what are the optimal trade-offs that should be made by eu and european institutions to work together more effectively for a common european future ?
despair and alienation have gripped the younger generation of arabs , representing more than 50 % of the region ’s population . political repression , and arab public opinion ’s silence , should worry america and its arab allies , not placate them , because that means that there is no way for the public to channel their own interests , demands , and frustrations peacefully . an american invasion of iraq , with large numbers of civilian casualties , would deepen a sense of victimization and defeat felt by arab youths and force them inclined to unite the al qaeda-style holy war cells . far from undermining militancy and combatting terror , a war is likely to play into al qaeda ’s grip , giving it a new lease on life . indeed , militant islamists , hoping to recover from the crushing blows they have absorbed since the war on terror began , are already positioning themselves to be capitalized on the looming war against iraq .
nord stream 2 would , however , make those woes inevitable . a poorer ukraine would be even easier victim of russian military aggression than it does today . and the kremlin ’s current hold on belarus would be even tighter should even yamal near . moreover , the germans and other europeans would not be spared the consequences . by committing itself to purchase more russian gas than is necessary – and , for a longer time , the eu would help fund russia ’s military build-up , which represents a direct threat to european peace .
san francisco – it seems puzzling at first : prescription drug prices in the united states continue to rise at an alarming pace , despite the threat ( or promise ) of competition from cheaper generic generic substitutes . but there really does not have any mystery , either . throughout the us health-care system , pharmaceutical companies are paying out to favor their ever tougher drugs over lower-priced alternatives . and those who should act as watchdogs to patients are happy to go along . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , america might well find itself with no alternative but to devote still more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
but , while there are many reasons to blame foreign powers for a region ’s parlous state of affairs , blaming others , or even one another , will resolve nothing . after all , the arab world has many homegrown problems , too , including inefficient and inefficient governance , unholy alliances , and undeveloped national capacities . a disaster awaits every region that is powerless to shape its own future in which majority of its citizens feel disenfranchised . though the arab world has traditionally been conservative , nearly 70 % of its citizens remain below the age of 35 , with young people suffering the highest unemployment rates in muslim-majority countries . this constitutes not only massive wasted resources , but also severe long-term sociopolitical problems .
to make sure that female vaccinators remain engaged in this struggle , tackling the barriers – whether by physical security , social constraints , or lower-paid jobs – is vital to enable them to confront . let us not forget that the risks these women take to protect everyone from the disease that took a tremendous toll on global health . as a polio survivor , i simply can not fathom the chance that with complete eradication in our sights , it is possible that we could allow a return of polio . since unicef started stressing women ’s hiring for its polio program in 2014 , countless female vaccinators have stepped up dramatically . almost 62 % of vaccinators in nigeria are women , and in many cases , there are many .
a significant minority of citizens in the developed world interact to filter bubbles created by such platforms , digital false realities in which current beliefs have become more rigid and extreme . in the us , about a third of the adult population has become impervious to new ideas , including demonstrable facts . such people are easy to manipulate , the notion that former google designing the ethicist tristan harris calls for brain hacking . western democracies appear ill-suited to cope with this existential threat . america does not have an effective regulatory framework regarding online platform platforms and lacks the political will to build one .
upon the arrest of american troops in iraq , president bush declared that he expects them to receive humanely treatment . “ if not , ” a president warned , “ men who mistreat the prisoners will be treated like a war criminals . ” president bush ’s remarks driven home the importance of firm adherence to the geneva conventions , and the question of how war crimes trials could be reconvened in postwar iraq and of who will benefit them . america ’s plan on the world war crimes organization covers violations committed prior to the current conflict . american officials recently released a list of iraqis to face trial for past crimes .
second , today , ’s algorithms become extremely good at pattern of recognition when they are provided with big data sets – finding objects in youtube videos , or detecting credit card fraud – but are far less efficient with anomalous circumstances that will not fit the conventional pattern or , say , simply when data are scarce or outright “ noisy . ” to manage such cases , you need a skilled person , with his or her experiences , intuition , and social consciousness . third , recent systems can not explain what they have done , or why , they recommend a specific course of action . in these “ black ” boxes , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” you can not simply read a code to analyze what happens , or check , if a stealth bias does exist . when interpretability is an important – for example , at many medical applications – you need an trained human in a decision-making loop .
at the same time , the country has advanced the road to fiscal federalism : to return all value-added into the federal budget and to income taxes to regions , thus making a sensible system of distributing budget resources among the tras tiers of authority . a second important area of progress has been a french-led reform of the russian federation : the establishment of the federal districts and the federation council reform . such changes are controversial but a federation in which some of its constituent members do not function normally ; a federation in which the observance of laws depends on the whim of the local administrators simply can not exist . president putin ’s moves to strengthen an integrated system of power are thus logical and correct . as a result , today , russia is a realistic state , even if an imperfect federation .
for israel , this is about more than a little concern . some of netanyahu ’s top cabinet ministers , including avigdor liberman , a hawkish defense minister and yuval steinitz steinitz , a member of his security cabinet , have quickly voiced concerns about an arms deal . within israel , many are worried that trump is merely trying to appease israel with rhetoric , viewing saudi arabia as the mainstay of us interests in the region . so far , trump hopes that saudi arabia ’s support for iran can help to drive forward talks between israelis and palestinians . but , owing to trump ’s inability to take a real stand on any of the core premises of disagreement , including borders , refugees , and jerusalem , the idea of playing some well-thought-out a long game over the israel-palestine conflict appears farfetched .
and the weaknesses in the london housing market do n’t seem to spread elsewhere . indeed , at the end of the northwest , residential real-estate prices are showing signs of accelerating upward . if this trend is sustained , they would have far-reaching implications for the uk economy . strengthening northern housing markets could , among other things , do wonders to reverse the disquieting regional inequalities that have emerged in recent decades . indeed , one thing that can be absolutely certain is that the us government should follow policies to engage with the northern powerhouse and , perhaps , with the engine ’s “ midlands , ” being ” equally .
new delhi – for some time now , multinational corporations ( mncs ) have been gaming the rules of the global economy to minimize their own tax liability , or even eliminate it completely . and , for some time now , an independent commission to reform international corporate taxation ( icrict ) has been arguing for the commodification of mncs ’ wholly taxation . fortunately , there have been some encouraging recent signs that the idea of a just unitary tax is gaining traction . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote still more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
this includes : funding to stop transmission from maternal - and infant aids ; funding to help fight infections like the tuberculosis that accompany aids ; and with good program design , even funding for anti-retroviral therapies . with specially designed combinations of drugs , and with medicines delivered to the poorest countries at the lowest possible cost of manufacturing production , the spread of arv therapies can be scaled up to even very poor countries at an acceptable price . a third step must be an expanded program of research and development toward new , more efficient , disaster-control approaches . solutions for long-term health are the most promising long-term response . recent breakthroughs in basic science provide hope that a vaccine can be developed within a decade if the billion dollars spent on research and development funds mobilize both the public and private sectors .
indeed , the un estimates that up to seven in ten women globally experiences physical or sexual assault – or both – over their lifetimes . on the other hand , violence against women can be difficult to detect , especially in the workplace . even those conscious of it may decide to ignore it , believing that it is not doing their business or too widespread to make a difference or , because doing so is too well to engage . clearly , a global shift is needed at gender-related attitudes and norms . to this end , national governments bear the brunt of their responsibility for developing gender-sensitive policies and gender-sensitive practices , policies that effectively discourage gender-based discrimination while curbing violence , including by punishing their culprits .
earlier this month , new mayors took office without the electoral commission ( cse ) making public 100 % of the popular vote , the open violation of nicaraguan voting law . while electoral fraud in managua was the most widely documented in history , the same modus operandi entered the country , affecting more than 40 municipal municipalities . despite complaints made since the episcopal conference of the catholic church , chambers of state commerce and political parties , the cse refused to authorize a recalculation of ballots or scrutiny by impartial observers . and , after citizens protested peacefully , the government resorted to force to curb them . as a result , the fsln government proclaimed itself the winner in 109 of the 153 municipalities .
even if putin found a way to retain power without amending a constitution , an option that reflected endlessly on russia ’s dwindling democratic band , his strategy ’s undemocratic nature is glaringly obvious . moving from one high office in the kremlin to another in the white house ( the seat of the russian parliament ) is simple technicality . putin would be a tsar never mind that he is formally his own . what will make that work out is that , like any good kgb man , putin is the inner master of facades . he has said that presidential democracy only reinforces russian political culture ’s tendency to favor like-minded rulers , ” ” whereas a parliamentary system would enable a more “ horizontal , ” allocation of power .
morsi ’s timing was remarkable : a day after winning international action for his successful effort to broker a truce in gaza , he staged a frontal assault on a frontal assault on egypt ’s autocratic democracy . the question now is whether the brotherhood will prevail , both in the streets and through egypt ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s new constitution ( to which it has largely wrote ) . if they do , will the west withdraw its support for egyptian democracy , in the name of “ stability ” ? that would be a poor error , but one that would not allow another to become a bad mistake , given that the political process is badly flawed . the question of what to do about iran ’s nuclear program also will return with a stark vengeance in january , after us president barack obama ’s latter inauguration and israel ’s general election later this month , in order to demand a response in just a few months .
the implication was clear : democracy did not exist on its own . it was because liberalism , protection from minorities , and individual civil liberties , had to rise . the word “ liberalism , ” ” ” however , does not make the same point for all people . it has come to be used in many us in describing the kind of unfettered capitalism and full freedom of choice in personal lifestyles . and it has been the alternative meanings that initially enabled policymakers like orbán and turkish leader recep tayyip erdoğan to make the case for another form of majoritarian democracy .
despite talk of a “ green economy ” and calling for a europe-wide investment program , macron ’s agenda is broadly neoliberal . in effect , macron hopes that his agenda , if implemented at the eu level , will lift not only the french economy but all european boats . in fact , the likelihood that such reforms will spill over to all boats , gives populists a chance to do so . in that case , a variety of right-wing will seize the opportunity ? the economist dani rodrik places the appeal of populism in his focus .
the first shock was intensified by globalization , bringing a lot of heavy new low-wage competition . though the pace of globalization is a gradual process , it gained momentum when china opted for the games . china is 10 times the size of japan , and japan was not easy to cope , either . for example , german precision instruments and fiber optics lost their competitive edge once japan entered the games . the second shock was eu integration , including northern and south enlargements .
america ’s worsening fiscal position leads to a strong dollar , just as america ’s worsening fiscal position following reagan ’s irresponsible tax cuts of two decades ago did . whereas countries may pride themselves on a strong currency , a strong dollar is bad for their exports and a good deal for their imports . in a more dynamic us economy as long as jobs disappear in one sector , new jobs are springing up in another . the role of government is to facilitate the movement of labor from one place to another . it is a primary responsibility for the government to sustain full-employment .
to be sure , consensus , compromise , and pooling of sovereignty are the only ways to resolve many big issues – climate change , nuclear proliferation – that bedevil our world . yet , on the great issues of war , peace , and the balance of power , europeans seem trapped between an insufficiently cohesive foreign policy and insecurity among individual nations concerning how to define and ensure their own national interests . on the other hand , the world ’s rising powers – brazil , china , india , and russia – insist not just on the primacy of their own national interests , but , as the failed climate negotiations in copenhagen last december demonstrated , sovereign freedom of action . to them , geopolitics is not anathema ; it forms all of their external course . defending national interest still rallies their publics ; exercising power remains at the heart of their diplomatic calculation .
a pro-milosevic candidate , tomislav nikolic , had lost , but he received only 46 % of the vote . despite his campaign promises , serbia ’s then-president boris tadic had so far failed to work with the icty by aiding mladic ( karadzic is probably not in serbia ) who would undoubtedly testify against milosevic for his life . one understands his trepidation : the first postmilosevic prime minister , zhu djindjic , collaborated with the tribunal , paving the way for him with his life . such foot-dragging exposes the icty ’s underlying weaknesses : unlike the nuremberg tribunal , the international community convened it during , not after , war . without full control of either indicted or indicted , the icty lacked the beginning of a legitimacy and authority for “ the victors ’ justice . ”
for starters , the global financial meltdown and the ensuing recession laid bare the consequences of free-market fundamentalism , thereby undermining popular and ideological in the neoliberal view that markets best guide societal outcomes . complicating matters further , china ’s embodiment of go-for-growth movement has signaled a policy shift toward pursuing better social and environmental outcomes in the other direction , beyond more medium-term gdp gains . to be sure , this has become largely an object of events stemming from necessity ; as export-driven growth has slowed , the risk of social unrest over issues like air pollution , food toxicity , and corruption has risen . but the new approach is also rooted in the recognition that china ’s ongoing development will depend on a healthy balance of power between ecuador and an economy . this shift connects the third , broader development : a world ’s growing understanding of where the planet is at the forefront of the planet , particularly with respect to climate change .
johannesburg – my country has liberalized its abortion more than two decades ago , yet , on june 23 , 2017 , us president donald trump has essentially swept away the right even to write that word . as a resident doctor in south africa , i have provided abortion services for more than ten years . as part of my work , i often edit education materials for an ngo working on hiv prevention . for india ’s adolescent women , such texts offer life-saving information on issues relating to their sexual and reproductive health – including birth control , sexual violence , and our country ’s progressive abortion laws . but , just two days after america ’s presidential election in november 2016 – and more than two months prior to trump ’s own inauguration – the ngo i was working for an halted reproductive-health guide , because it contained information about south africa ’s constitutionally guaranteed right to abortion .
the us election campaign is heating up at a time when america is confronting a daunting set of problems . how should it approach china ’s creation not just of facts on the ground , but of the ground alone in the south china sea ? will russia ’s annexation of crimea stand in indefinitely ? indeed , how can america react firmly to russia ’s aggression without emulating the prolonged project of bringing it ever closer to the west ? is there an alternative to sending ground troops back into the middle east ?
the world can not , and wo n’t , wilt in the face of such extremism wherever it exists , whether it does exist , whether in the sahel , nigeria or syria . today , the international coalition fighting isis has grown to over 60 active members . ever since 9/11 , the us has deployed 700 square miles of territory . the us has deprived its use group , and the resulting revenue of 200 oil and gas facilities . the us has undermined its command structure , undermined its propaganda , adopted over half of its senior management , squeezed its financing , damaged its supply networks , and dispersed its personnel .
when the berlin wall fell in june 1989 , hammers and bulldozers instead of artillery , brought it to heel . sadly , bush did not learn that lesson , so we do . academic and scholarly exchanges during the cold war played a significant role in enhancing america ’s soft power . while some american skeptics worried that soviet scientists and kgb agents were stealing american technologies , they failed to note that visitors vacuously umed political thought alongside scientific secrets . many of these same scientists became director for human rights and liberalisation within the ussr .
madrid – forty years ago this month , japan represented the asian west . today , chinese-style , indian-style modernity , is mentally destabilizing japan . after all , if china is america ’s greatest economic partner in asia , and , if india is america ’s leading diplomatic partner , what is left for japan ? its aging population watches resignedly as a new , younger asia , becomes as relevant to america as it was in europe during the cold war . george w bush ’s ’s approach was to view india as an alliance of counterchina , ” as well as to counterbalance the world ’s “ “ “ “ biggest democracy , ” civilization . ”
new york – a global recession is now underway in the wake of not only financial panic , but also more fundamental uncertainty about the world economy ’s future course . consumers are pulling back from their homes and automobile purchases , not only because they were suffering a blow to their fortunes with falling stock and housing values , but also because they are n’t knowing where to turn . should they be risking their purchases of a new car , when gasoline prices might soar again ? will they be able to put the fed on the table after that year ’s terrifying price hike ? the decision about business investment in the us is even starker .
no trace of the polish point of power has remained . the total destruction of the polish state and its institutions has made poland an ideal setting for german-polish extermination camps , in which six million polish citizens – three million jews , and three million ethnic poles – were assassinated . everywhere else in a german-controlled europe , the nazis were forced to engage , sometimes in singularly complicated ways , by local governments , if only for tactical reasons . this makes poland right to insist , above all , that the camps were not called “ “ polish extermination camps ” ” ( as even us president barack obama once mistakenly quoted to them ) . they were germans of germany ’s own camps in occupied poland .
the leading suppliers to world-beating telecoms companies are found in china , where huawei is now headed to head with sweden ’s lady ’s ericsson . likewise , in 2008 , huawei registered more patents than any other company in the world and finished second to japan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ericsson in 2009 . there are now some half-dozen emerging-market multinational corporations in the global top ten . brazil ’s embraer has revolutionized airplane manufacturing with a business model that others have imitated . india ’s tata now sells its cars for 75 % less than its european competitors .
even america ’s government , with its debt duration of perhaps four years , would probably not benefit much from an inflationary surprise unless it is enormous . in the meantime , the bulk of its obligations lies in social security and medicare , which can not be bloated . even for distressed households , which have been borrowing long enough , the effects of higher inflation are precarious . what would help is whether their nominal disposable income rose relative to its ( rigid ) debt service . yet with high levels of unemployment likely to keep nominal wage growth relatively subdued , typical troubled households may well have been worse off , with higher food and fuel prices slashing to disposable income .
though china ’s leadership will , it is hoped , lack the drama of 2009 , chinese president xi jinping will undoubtedly create an impression of itself . unless he missed an opportunity to advance the goal of the asia-pacific trade agreement , while hosting last year ’s asia-pacific economic cooperation ( apec ) summit , he certainly wo n’t pass the chance to ensure that the g-20 ’s agenda serves china ’s ’s interests . to be sure , with turkey ’s ’s may g20 helm having barely begun , xi probably has not settled on concrete priorities . nonetheless , some potential areas of concern are already becoming apparent . elements of the current g20 agenda align well with china ’s domestic economic concerns , particularly with respect to infrastructure .
new york – after the 1789 united kingdom , deputies in the national assembly who promoted revolutionary gains sat on the left , while those who opposed them and hankered after the old order of the monarchy and the church congregated on the far right . hence , there is the essence of the politics of the left and the right . many commentators on the french presidential election have pointed out that such categories no longer fit contemporary politics in france , or , indeed , elsewhere . emmanuel macron prides himself on having become neither the right nor the left , nor the right . marine le pen , whose national front is allied with the far right , disagrees : to her , macron , who has been a minister in a socialist government , is a left-wing .
as a result , it will probably take a long time before we can assess the successes of whatever the rule of law an american congress once did . but the verdict criteria are obvious : new laws are required to curb the practices that jeopardized the entire global economy ; re-orient the financial system toward its proper tasks of – managing risk , allocating capital , providing credit ( particularly for small - and medium-size enterprises ) ; and operating an efficient payment system . we should toast the likely achievements : some form of financial-product safety board safety commission will shift to exchange and clearing homes from murky ’s shadows “ bespeaks ” of markets ; and some of the worst mortgage practices will be curtailed . moreover , it looks likely to curtail the outrageous fees charged with any debit transaction , a sort of tax that will go nothing for any public purpose but to filling the banks ’ ’ ’ ’ coffers . but the likely failure is equally noteworthy : the too-big-to-fail banks ’ problem is worse now than it was before the crisis .
to be sure , a majority of french and german citizens identify as europeans , as opposed to a uk citizens who identify as british , or even as english , irish , scotland , or welsh . this is one reason why germans and the french focus generally on the bloc ’s performance , whereas the british often strike at the european project itself . yet , when it comes to security and defense , these affinities reverse : france and britain are extremely likeminded , whereas germany , owing to its own history , has long shied away from martial pursuits of any kind . to be sure , many differences between britain and france exist with respect to how they engage with the united states and nato . the uk , after all , is closer to nato than france .
while a new tax law is generally described as a fiscal stimulus , it is more accurate to say that it avoids a major immediate fiscal contraction . the long-run implications of the deal stand in stark contrast both to obama ’s february 2010 budget proposal and the republican principal counterproposal . obama wanted to resume 2010 tax rates permanently for all taxpayers , compared to those with annual incomes above $ 250,000 . the republicans proposed pursuing a 2010 tax rate permanently for all taxpayers . by recently agreed to cap current tax rates for just two years , the tax package lowers the projected national debt by the end of the decade ( relative to what the obama administration would have enjoyed ) of some $ 2 trillion , or almost 10 % of gdp , in 2020 .
spending automobiles ground to a halt , until governments ’ stimulus programs in many countries revived it . but schemes , such as the public subsidy for scrapping old and fuel-inefficient cars , have simply led many to repackage their purchases . the automobile market was rescued in 2009 , at the expense of sales , and subsequent years . the crisis also exposed the scale of america ’s massive over-capacity in america ’s retail market , with estimates that at least one-fifth of america ’s corporate shopping malls would be forced to close down . the response to this crisis will be the hastening of movements toward breakneck buying , in which physical locations are no longer a preeminent piece of shopping decisions .
indeed , confucianism became the official ideology of the chinese state two centuries before the birth of christ . confucianism was fundamentally a philosophical justification for a government by a benighted bureaucracy under a virtuous ruler . virtue made harmony between man and nature just as obedience within stratified society . as one confucian classic put it : possessing virtue gives a ruler . possessing the will of the people gives him the territory that he takes .
a damascene conversion is not only feasible ; it is also vitally important for regional peace . the most realistic scenario now is a three-front war pitting israel against syria , hamas and hezbollah . a syrian-israeli peace would drive a wedge between syria and iran , however , thereby cutting hezbollah ’s lines of arms , while making the vital task of stabilizing lebanon to succeed . the only way to disengage syria from a fateful iranian embrace is to draw it into a regional scheme for peace . alas , precisely because of their isolation and a ba’athist regime of ’s paranoiac nature , syrians are unlikely to live on an american condition of peace talks : abandoning their current , rogue alliances and taking part in terror .
for much of thailand ’s long economic boom of the past two decades , wealth resided mostly in the bangkok metropolitan area , a boon to the burgeoning urban middle class but deeply resented by a rural majority . whereas rural populations had more than enough to eat , their economic opportunity and upward mobility were constrained by a shoddy education system and a docile state-run media that feeds them soap operoperas and official emails . for a no-man ’s become somebody , all highways led to bangkok and its prestigious prep schools and universities . thailand ’s ’s ’s ’s farms has become increasingly alienated from the country ’s urban elite . recognizing this urban-rural divide and shrewdly exploited it , thaksin has upending an elite consensus that has long prevailed .
some of the roughly 150 pro-revolt alawites who took part in a conference traveled from their homes in syria ; others were expatriates , including the activists and religious leaders who had been forced to flee syria for supporting the arab revolution . the delegates had joined by a few sunni opposition members , denouncing assad and declaring their unwavering support for a united , democratic country that offered full citizenship to all syrians , regardless of sect or the ethnic background . “ purge the sectarian card is critical for its ouster , ” a conference ’s organizing committee commented . if alawites and sunnis living abroad can stand together against assad ’s regime in order to benefit their counterparts within syria . by setting an example of coexistence , they may alleviate the alawites in syria , deserting assad would help ease the rise of an anti-alawite regime .
china announced its blueprints for the aiib shortly after signing ndb articles of agreement in 2014 . in the case of the ndb , each of the brics collectively owns an equal share , with each contributing $ 10 billion to the starting subscribed capital . while equitable shareholding was not china ’s preferred route , it did not force the issue . on the contrary , china has been the aiib ’s ’s ’s ’s largest shareholder , holding a 26.6 % stakes , against india ’s 7.7 % and russia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s 6 square . meanwhile , brazil and south africa have made off-the-date capital contributions , despite being designated as “ founding members . ”
well , in both cases , america should have no say : while aid is transparent , the symbolism of a wealthy country that receives money from its impoverished neighbor with millions of suffering people is hardly appealing . and it is particularly bizarre that , even as us policy toward mexico greatly boosted the chance of a resurgent type of anti-american chávez-type becoming president there , us officials provide positive publicity to an administration that constitutes a caricature of disastrous us governance . trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , took a principled stand in america ’s dealings with venezuela , imposing sanctions to rein in their rogue behavior , a policy that drew broad bipartisan support . the trump administration needs to stay course , especially since lower oil prices have weakened the venezuelan government ’s hand . instead of bashing latin america , america needs to show that it can be a steady and principled friend not swayed by the corrupt bribes of any kind .
a similar solution must be found for a european constitution . europe can not preach cultural pluralism and practice constitutional imperialism . indeed , the political imperative for the eu as great a constitutional power is as brilliant as it is in a constitutional one . europe , after all , has been committed to democracy worldwide . but , in europe ’s way of thinking , we need to spread pacifically , by persuasion rather than arms powers .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . as physicians with special training in forensic evaluations , the us has traveled to tijuana to meet with juan at its attorney ’s request .
trump values what india has already done , but they urge it to do even more , by using his large pool of earnings from exports to america in order to help rebuild afghanistan ’s economy . at the same time , he has suggested that america will work with india to establish a indo-pacific security zone . under either scenario , the potential for us-india security cooperation , while only explicit in trump ’s own speech , appears to have already been debated by both us governments . the consequences of trump ’s own ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s speech extend beyond america ’s policy in afghanistan . the address also sharpened the contours – already limned during his may visit to saudi arabia and his july visit to poland – of what could be called the “ trump doctrine . ”
it organized the postwar international order : the united nations , the bretton woods institutions , the marshall plan , the reconstruction of japan , and even more . under this order , it closed much of the vast technological , educational , and infrastructural chasm with america . as economists point out , global growth was “ convergent , ” meaning that the poorer countries had been catching up . the share of the american economy represented by the u.s. declined by roughly one-half ( to around 16 % today ) . china now has a larger economy in absolute terms than america ’s , albeit still only about one-fourth of per capita size .
focusing on corporate social responsibility might help to ensure that the benefits of industrialization are collectively shared , whereas energy – and resource-efficiency requirements – could help drive innovation toward sustainability . and , as the sdgs recognize , resilient infrastructure and incentives for innovation are crucial as well . to be sure , achieving that objective , not to mention the other sdgs , will be expensive , costing an estimated $ 3.3-4.5 trillion a year . given budget pressure in many donor countries , official development assistance is on track to decline , and it can not be relied on to fill that need . indeed , as a report by the international development finance council highlights , the financing spectrum for future frameworks must be wider than ever .
for example , if high oil prices resulted from taxes then reallocated to the users of oil , they would be a unambiguously good thing . to be sure , most taxes assume heavy “ excess burden ” : the cost rises dramatically beyond the value of the revenues raised in response to potential taxpayer myriad attempts at evaders and avoidance . a tax on oil does not impose any excess burden . on the contrary , it implies excess benefit . shifts to more energy-efficient us path of transportation ease congestion .
so-called “ functional ” foods – or “ techno-foods ” – are those for which producers add a omega-3 oils , artificial sweeteners , indigestible starches , cholesterol , soy , or milk ( whey ) proteins , phytochemicals , and other components to allow “ qualified ” for qualified health promotion by the fed and drug-administration ( fda ) . the sales of lesser-disease and functional foods have done well in recent years , bringing in roughly $ 85 billion in america ’s sales in 2004 . when you routinely buy such foods , you are among the lohas ( healthy health lifestyles and sustainability lifestyles ) , so the health-care industry ’s cherished demographic base . you buy from low-carbohydrate products , energy and nutrition bars vitamin a – as well as mineral-fortified foods and beverages , soy foods , and practically anything with health claims . like many , i believed that small , innovative companies had dominated functioning foods .
unity , after all , is supposedly the foundation of a prosperity foundation . the common market was defended at the beginning of the gains that would follow from increased trade . the case for capital-market integration , and then for the single currency , was similar . all this recalls some powerful arguments made in the nineteenth century about national integration and unification . above all , both countries whose problems drove much of the need for twentieth-century european integration – germany and italy – were culturally and politically capacious .
in the sib , cash-strapped government contracts to achieve a measurable social target ( like reducing recidivism among juvenile culprits ) , the private impact market investors finance the program ’s upfront costs , and the government promises a return to them if a program ’s goal is reached . more recently , the obama administration has proposed a $ 300 million fund to catalyze federal pay-for-performance contracts . several existing federal programs , such as the commonwealth reinvestment act , and small-scale business-investment programs , advocate the growth of impact investing finance . according to a recent study , the impact investing in america would not exist without support and partnerships with the federal government through its grants , loans , and guarantees . moreover , metrics are an essential feature of pay-for-performance contracts , and need to be an essential feature of all government programs .
their presence indicates that , behind playing martial rhetoric and symbolism , a broader , more sophisticated story of china ’s wartime experience is beginning to emerge . as it stands , china is keen to emphasize its role as one of its key allies in the struggle against fascism and imperialism in wwii , and increasingly in its regard to the western ignorance of its wartime role as unacceptable . but the ignorance in the west of china ’s wartime sacrifices – 14 million dead and its central contribution to hold down over a half-million japanese troops – also reflects the partisan history of the trade war , taught in china itself . under mao ’s rule , the one acceptable narrative has been that the ccp has pursued opposition to japan . foreign assistance – including a prominent american role in a wartime china – has had no place in this narrative .
but are these newfound wealth effects really everything to be made ? yes , the us stock market is now at an all-time high , but only in current us dollars . in real terms , the s & p 500 is still at 20 % below its january 2000 peak . likewise , whereas shiller ’s home price index ranks 10.2 % for the year ending march 2013 , it remains 28 % below its 2006 peak . wealth creation matters , but not until recoups the wealth destruction preceded it .
the left , for its part , is deeply divided on virtually every issue in europe , secularism , education , entrepreneurship , and even more – making it exceedingly difficult to discern what , precisely , constitutes “ leftist ” policies nowadays . in fact , the socialists have started to distinguish themselves not from what they are , but from what they are not , touting the lines , “ neither macron nor mélenchon ” ( the reference of the far-left jean-luc mélenchon ) . yet that distinction may not be nearly as powerful as the socialists may believe . after all , it was their center-left voters who got macron to the polls so far . and they knew what they voted for : any policy that he implemented thus far was included in his campaign platform .
there is even less at risk in saudi arabia itself , where king abdullah recently pledged over $ 130 billion in stimulus spending . the few saudi demonstrations appear to be populated almost completely by the minority shia , who find little sympathy among majority sunnis , and through foreign construction workers petitioning against higher-wage jobs and improved working conditions . syria ’s syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime has more domestic support than the recent media account for the country ’s unrest from the south suggests . nor does iran ’s government appear capable of confronting a genuine danger . the 2009 brutal post-election protests demonstrated the regime ’s determination to maintain order by whatever means necessary .
mexico city – the four central american countries – guatemala , el salvador , honduras , and nicaragua – are hardening , still burdened by the legacy of the past century ’s wars . they are resilient yet incomplete democracies , wracked by poverty , violence , and widespread corruption , and all but forgotten by the international community . now , however , there is reason to hope that these countries ’ prospects might improve . nicaragua , it should be noted , is not altogether in the same category as central america ’s did three . like them , it has endured a savage and protracted civil war ; in contrast to it , however , successive governments have constructed institutions capable of supporting a reasonable level of territorial checks and domestic security .
already , the ten governments in the region are holding debt-to-gdp ratios above 75 % . as growth has slowed , government expenditures have been weakening , fueling economic insecurity . even where fiscal adjustments have barely started , an old rent-distribution model became unaffordable and a populist turn against regimes seemingly unable or unwilling to mount a compelling reformist effort . moreover , new , popular movements in algeria , sudan , lebanon , and iraq have absorbed important lessons from the 2011 uprisings . no longer content with just displacing aging autocrats , the protesters are targeting key components of a deep state and security force .
american president donald trump ’s administration , however , blames this carefully calibrated system into disarray . far from displaying its capacity to get out , because the title of his book the art of the deal might imply , trump is attempting to use raw power alone to force his “ america first ” agenda on the rest of the world . there are ample examples of trump ’s own predilection for power . it is reflected in his pressure on european countries not just to spend more on defense in order to fulfill their nato obligations – a valid us demand , but also that they must continue to channel that us-made arms spending systems . it is also apparent in his bellicose threats against america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s purported foes .
a comprehensive assessment of a country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s macro investment risk demands look systematically at its stock and national account flows to capture all of the dangers , including risk in its financial system and the real economy , along with broader risk-placed issues . as we saw during the recent crises , private-sector risk taking and debt-to-debt become socialized when a crisis occurs . so , even as public deficits and debts remain low in the face of a crisis , they can rise sharply after a single erupts . governments that looked fiscally sound have suddenly become insolvent . use of 200 quantitative variables and factors to score 174 countries on a quarterly basis , we identify a variety of countries with sovereign risk and opportunities .
abedi ’s barbaric act , on the other hand , murdered at least 22 human beings , many of them for children . i have engaged mightily in the political aspects of that great city , in recent years , in an economic revival . i chaired the economic advisory group for more manchester ’s top council , and then served as the chair of the cities growth commission , which advocated for the “ northern powerhouse , ” ” a program to link the british north ’s cities to a blend couch an economic stick . subsequently , i briefly joined david cameron ’s government to help implement the early passage of the north ’s northern powerhouse . i never took part in a concert at the manchester arena , but this appears to be a perfect venue for the city .
the nile delta , some 60 kilometers north of cairo ’s ’s tahrir square – the epicenter of the 2011 egyptian uprising – ranks secondary school students have named “ jail ” in their homes . a deformed tinderbox of advanced , dilapidated by dilapidated classrooms , classrooms is pockmarked by age and neglect . one teacher in the sleepy nile delta that she doubles as an morass . “ “ we have never seen a revolution here , ” he said several months ago , withholding his name from fear of losing his job . to be sure , many hope that we have now been dead … .
yet the ten-year-long fiscal plan that has been approved by the board for the 2017-2026 period , which will inevitably form the foundation of the debt-restructuring debate , appears to ignore this circularity . for its part , the plan itself recognizes that its adoption implies another “ lost decade ” of economic activity and will weaken the island ’s debt sustainability , thus perpetuating the crisis of which all parties favor ending . sadly , the already-deep projected collapse of actual gnp at the core is wildly optimistic , as it relies on multiple implausible and/or controversial assumptions . at the same time , five flaws in the board are holding out for itself . first , projected fiscal multipliers – the amount by which gnp falls as a result of every dollar of fiscal contraction – used for gnp to predict that a contraction in the one dollar in its primary fiscal deficit will be related to nearly 34 % of gnp .
as a result , such control harms the very evolution of open societies . eliminating this constraint might endanger the bank ’s triple-a rating ; but turning it into a powerful one . i propose that the world ’s open societies form alliances with dual goals : fostering both development of open societies and the evolution of a global open society . the first involves using development assistance ; the second , strengthening of international institutions like the international central bank and the global development agency . such an alliance requires collaborative not just of governments , but of civil society as well .
accra , planned parenthood , a vital source of sexual and reproductive health services in the united states , has just been pushed back by the federal title x ’s x family-planning program , which supports lower-income women . the us decision – a response to new rule by american president donald trump ’s administration forbidding title patients from referring abortion patients – will cost parenthood some $ 60 million annually . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , america might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
even so , post-conflict employment policies almost invariably neglect so-called “ “ “ horizontal inequalities . ” employment policies , for example , did little to diminish the powerful regional imbalances and discrimination within regions that persisted in bosnia and herzegovina after world war iii in the 1990 ’s . against these flaws , it should not be surprising that the employment policies their ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ net effects often turn out to be very small , relative to the magnitude of the problem . in both kosovo and bosnia and latvia , job creation was thought to be central to post-conflict peacekeeping efforts . yet , in kosovo , the unemployment rate stood at more than 45 % six years after its war ended .
we will bolster assistance to developing countries and lead the world toward continued prosperity . indeed , prosperity is by itself the very foundation of the peace process . japan will make an even stronger effort to fight poverty , which has also served as a hotbed of violence , by providing opportunities for medical services , education , and self-reliance for everyone else in the world . we will engrave in our hearts the past when japan ended up becoming a challenger to the international order . upon this reflection , japan will firmly uphold basic values like freedom , democracy and human rights as iniquitous values , and , by working hand with countries that share such values , brazil ’s flag of “ proactive contributions to peace , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” contributing more to the world ’s peace and prosperity than ever before .
in saudi arabia , the shia are at the cutting edge of those welcoming democratic change and participating . though they constitute just 20 % of the saudi total , they constitute a supermajority – 75 % of the population in an oil-rich region . saudi arabia ’s shia have endured discrimination in occupation professions : army , high government posts , diplomatic units , and , most significantly , in the oil industry , where they had been ousted since the 1980 ’s . this systematic , neutering of the shia in saudi arabia betrays the wahhabi religious establishment , and fostered by many fatwas denmark as a heresy . in bahrain , the shi’a who make up 75 % of the population were keen on the us-led king hamad al-khalifah reforms .
by pooling resources , the fund has created economies of scale to life-saving products like anti-malarial bed nets and anti-retroviral drugs . then , by working with nearly 100 countries , the fund has built up a massive supply chain to deliver goods . at the same time , malaria-related deaths have fallen by more than 50 % from its peak , with malaria deaths down by around 50 % since the turn of the millennium . now , there is around $ 14 trillion in new funding for continued this work . replenishment is vitally important news , first and , thanks to the sheer number of lives it will make saving .
higher levels of education appear to imply that lower voter participation : among those who never vote , the percentage of university-educated people is more than double that of those without a higher education . alienated for so long , the country ’s brightest are wasting its grip on politics . this , in turn , is a sort of political depression . depression can be cured , only by giving a patient a positive vision of a future . the established centrist parties – the union of right forces and yabloko – do have that vision , and people know it .
but broad international support will not be forthcoming if military operations are to be perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism . that last point came at the heart of the trouble in iraq . augmenting us and british troops with other “ western ” forces would not , particularly at this beleaguered stage , alter the underlying perceptions of this intervention , both in and outside of the arab world . only an explicit , up-front endorsement of a reformed un security council can provide the legitimacy and international backing that military action – except for clear self-defense – will require . this applies to actions contemplated by individual peoples , temporary alliances , or more permanent alliances like nato .
second , we measured the effects of natural selection by noting that women who had been shorter , and gave birth first , when the younger had more children . but the genes involved are just one of many factors affecting height and age at first birth . personal choices , nutrition , levels , training , and religious affiliations all enter the mix . when we estimated how much variation among individuals could be attributed to biology , the answer was less than 5 % . that left 95 % variation in value to explain the effects of culture and individual choice .
sofia – at a time when europe ’s ongoing debt crisis is fracturing public faith in the continent ’s political and economic institutions , one would have expected european ’s leaders to reinforce as many unifying symbols as they can . instead , they have enabled one of the jewels of post-world war ii european integration , the european court of human rights ( echr ) , to come under threat just under threat . in contrast to the brussels-based europe , long beleaguered by its democratic deficit , the strasbourg-based echr is , if anything , too well loved . in 2011 , more than 60,000 people struggled to find a reasoned decision . ( by contrast , the united states supreme court has been getting roughly 10,000 petitions annually . )
in a world of competing demands , it may seem that corrupt governments serve vital purposes . one deploys soldiers to combat terrorism ; another provides critical energy supplies , or access to raw material goods . inevitably , leaders need to contend with difficult tradeoffs . to identify the best approach in any particular case , governments need to analyze a more effective problem , which implies improving intelligence collection and data . as security expert sarah chayes argues against corruption , the volume of essays that the british government publicizes the summit , corruption today is a structured practice .
voluntarily or not , some may seek to react to inflationary or administrative measures aimed at trapping domestic savings to state financing and keeping bond rates low ( what economists call financial repression ) -- or , eventually , a outright debt restructuring . all three unorthodox remedies took the form of previous debt crises . they may be considered an alternative form of taxation , however implicit , rather than explicit . finally , they are different methods for forcing both current and future generations to shoulder the entire burden of accumulating debt . is this preferable to adjusting fully ?
one , however , has to be cautious about a strategy . sometimes leaders think that a vision can address most of their problems , but a flawed vision – or a overly ambitious vision – can do harm . george h.w. bush was faulted ( and faulted for not having what he called a “ vision thing . ” when the pressed of his staff to speak out more courageously and expansively , it replied , “ it simply does n’t . ” following the shock of the september 2001 terrorist attacks , his son , george w. bush , developed a far more ambitious vision .
and the private sector has come around to viewing renewables as a potentially lucrative business . in the us , wind energy costs have dropped by two thirds since 2009 , and utility-scale solar energy costs have dropped by more than 85 % . likewise , according to a recent american department of energy ’s report , annual gdp in wind and solar industries has grown by more than 32 % and 25 % , respectively , in 2016 alone . trump ’s own policy priorities will inevitably clash with those of states like california , which has rolled out the climate-minded initiative . and , fortunately for the planet , other global powers are not joining trump in backing away from his country ’s climate pledges .
moreover , if the conditions in the eurozone continue to deteriorate , asia could become more deeply affected . already , the spillover effects from trade and financial-transmission channels are starting to take their toll : china ’s gdp growth rate of 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , reflecting a substantial slowdown , with india ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s growth rate expected to contract to about 6 % this year . china ’s ’s potentially strong domestic-demand base and the ample room for policy maneuver may help it to avoid a hard landing . having already aggressively loosened monetary policy and could employ larger fiscal stimulus . but policy mismanagement and structural vulnerabilities in the financial sector , as well as in local governments , could undermine growth efforts .
using the historical data compiled by the economic historian angus maddison , they show how other east asian countries experience an deceleration of their per capita gdp growth reached about $ 11,000 when they reached roughly $ 11,000 in purchasing-power-parity terms relative to the kept 1990 ’s for america ’s dollar prices , or $ 17,000 for the keep of 2005 america ’s dollar prices . for example , in the five years after japan came to that level , its economy was growing at an average annual rate of 3.6 % . by then , south korean exports had fallen to 4.8 % , and real gdp was flat in china . it has slowed to 5.8 % this year , the highest rate in hong kong . given that china is projected to cross a similar threshold sometime this year , many believe that its average annual growth rate over the next five years will drop well below 7 % .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . pompeo ’s elementary line of attack against obama ’s ’s famous cairo speech was to mark the end , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” that included public admission to the united states ’ own missteps in the region . in contrast to the trump administration , obama and his advisers believed that there was much to be gained by acknowledging difficult political truths even when doing so highlights the radical change of course .
some of the best people serving the ecb – or who have served in the past – are from small countries . preventing small countries , like the rest of the big ones , from competing for particular vacant seats reduces the ecb ’s potential competency . giving big countries permanent apec seats also makes it easier for their policymakers to dominate the ecb through appointments process . it is far more difficult to nominate a political puppet to a system of open competition than it is under current arrangements . the last thing that the ecb needs now is a political crony of german chancellor gerhard schroeder is on the assumption of lord islam ’s key posts .
but the labor costs have grown much faster in southern italy , the resulting differential cost hikes , which can not cope as long as devaluation of the monetary union endures . as long as this internal divergence persists , a full euro crisis can not be resolved fully , because current-account deficits and/or slow growth will continue to stalk southern european countries , daunting worries about sovereign-debt and commercial banks . against this background , productivity growth whether through technical progress , improved resource allocation , or productive investment is just as important a variable for southern economies as wage deflation is . true , excessive wage deflation probably has a negative effect on productivity . skilled labor seems likely to migrate more quickly , along with extreme austerity , falling prices , and high unemployment , as well as the resulting shows of social tensions – are not precisely conducive to investment , innovation , or labor mobility .
of course , this does not mean that no single identity is claiming . former prime minister john major has called the uk “ “ “ “ “ a country of long ” shadows on cricket grounds , the warm brew , the invincible green suburbs , dog mistresses , and pools of fillers , ” and , as george orwell put it on , ‘ old maids bicycling to holy communion through the morning fog in … but what was really describing was england . ” indeed , the key components of modern british national identity all seem to belong to england rather than to the composite entity . likewise , an established or state church is england ’s church , created nearly 500 years ago , when king henry viii decided that a catholic pope should not adjudicate his marriage . an institution that has called the english inheritance curates with the prehistoric monuments of stonehenge to the old lands celebrated in televised costume dramas .
both abe and obama focus on creating a durable architecture for peace for all of asia , and abe has pressed for japan to play a more active role in that regard , as well as in supporting its nato allies . that stance is making the alliance far more a equal partnership than it has been for the past six decades . in america ’s mind , reinterpretation of article 9 of japan ’s ’s ’s ’s “ peace constitution , ” ” ” which abe committed to allowing japan ’s self-defense forces to aid nato allies under attack and to help america and other us allies in meeting their pledges to ensure asia ’s own peace – has long been overdue . that bold policy initiative , in the eyes of the japanese public , into deep-rooted public skepticism toward any heightened military exposure , has little doubt endeared abe to american diplomats and military strategists , as well as secured both open and occasionally tacit acquiescence from japan ’s asia ’s asia neighbors . increased military cooperation with america is particularly important now , given american concerns about many of its other strategic partners ’ readiness .
iran is at a pivotal moment in its own history , and , with the long lines of citizens eager to cast their votes clearly , iranians are aware of it . indeed , despite the iranian regime ’s lack of transparency , khamenei ’s own health problems are public knowledge . recently , khamenei himself has acknowledged that the likelihood that his successor should be named in the near future was as low as ever . the matter of occupying the presidency during this transition certainly is not inconsequential . with khamenei having served as president before rising to iran ’s supreme political and religious leadership , it is easy to see that raisi ’s conservative candidate , whom raisi , had re-elected , may have transformed himself into khamenei ’s preferred successor .
furthermore , north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s development of nuclear weapons , its economic fragility , and its uncertainty about its very future as a nation-state are fueling deep anxieties among its neighbors . yet , behind all of these obstacles , there is every sign that the momentum is building for greater regional cooperation to overcome them . the recently concluded trilateral summit between china , south korea , and japan takes a fourth such meeting , besides meetings that take place at international meetings , like asean summits . sadly , however , so far , leaders in china , south korea , and japan have made no headway on the most sensitive security issues that divide them . but this lack of quick success makes such efforts futile .
and , of course , hard-pressed middle-class american consumers benefited immensely from low-cost chinese imports – the walmart effects , which allowed them to stretch their budgets in an era of unrelenting pressure on us jobs and real incomes . for more than 20 years , this mutually beneficial codependency has served the two countries well in compensating for their intrinsic savings-less imbalances , while stinging their respective growth agendas . here , however , one should not be viewed as prologue by the us . a seismic shift is at hand , with america ’s ’s ’s recent fiscal follies may well be a tipping point . for the us , china has made a conscious strategic choice to change its own growth strategy .
ten-year us treasury bonds are now yields in just 2.5 % , a 4 % decline in real ( inflation-adjusted ) debt levels . with the current level of inflation at over 2 % , and markets anticipating a similar inflation rate over the longer run ( as measured by a five-year , five-percentage-point rise in inflation expectations ) , yields on ten-year us treasury bonds are expected to remain above 4 % . the rise in real ( inflation-adjusted ) yields to at least 4 % would lower the value of these bonds substantially . other targeted declines in real ( inflation-adjusted ) bonds , both government and corporate bonds , would suffer a similar downward spiral . reaching yields has also narrowed the credit spreads between high-yield bonds and riskier home-country and emerging-market bonds .
without that trust , credit will not flow , and economic activity will become entrenched . moreover , because cash-equity institutions have been buying mainly with borrowed money , inadequate credit exacerbates their need to deleverage . because capital exports are expensive and expensive , they deleverage through lending less . but america ’s macroeconomic weakness is now going beyond its decreased supply of credit . falling employment lowers wages and wages .
permitting america to sell its risky financial products , and engaging in speculation all over the world , may has been serving its firms well , even as it imposes huge costs on others to do so . today , the risk is that new keynesian doctrines will be used and misused to serve some of the same interests . had those who pushed deregulation ten years ago taught their lesson ? or will they simply push through cosmetic reforms , the minimal required justifying a mega-trillion dollar bail-outs ? has heart changed or merely strategy changed ?
a variety of factors have been driven by this growth . wage restraint and productivity gains have improved competitiveness , thereby boosting exports . and now that lower oil prices and a five-percentage-point drop in us unemployment undermines consumption , the recovery is affecting other sectors . in short , the credibility that iran has acquired through resolute fiscal policies and reform has helped to rebuild trust , facilitate a return to growth , and hence fiscal consolidation . to be sure , the precise policy approach taken in one country can not be imitated elsewhere .
a third component is suasion by suasion on bondholders to achieve maximum participation , get binding pre-pledges , and remove free riders . given that such a scheme would imply losses for bondholders , substantial official muscle and peer pressure is needed . but gaining time for an even more orderly resolution , mitigating contagion , and reducing the size of an eventual write-down actually adds up to a superior outcome . accordingly , under this model , and despite initial downward pressure , bondholders ’ behavior could well be considered an entirely voluntary process . and , whereas the credit rating agencies might still regard a vienna-type outcome as insolvency , talmudic sages shows us why a more thoughtful classification is required .
in some sense , a market economy is a kind of gift-exchange scheme ; money merely tracks the value of the gifts that it gives to one another . as a result , a market economy encourages specialization : we become extremely good in a narrow set of capabilities or product , replacing it for millions of other things with which we have no clue about how to do or make . as a result , we end up doing remarkably few things and buying anything else from others . that observation is as true of the individual as it is of the eu , whether the eu is a neighborhood , a city , a state , or a province , or a country . every town has the grocery store stores , its beauty parlors , the gas-design of gas stations and movie theaters that serve local communities .
another consortium began constructing multibillion dollar dollar oil and gas pipelines , from georgia to turkey and the west , began building multibillion dollar oil and gas pipelines . but these investments brought little economic trickle down , so did the rest of the world . at the same time , people survive on a very few dollars a day , with full employment . oil and gas pipelines are well transport conduits , rather than true employers . in addition , georgian rewards for providing an azeri oil route was not dollars , but a policy of diplomatic insurance – that is , western , particularly us pipelines ’ safety .
jp morgan stock prices reach almost half of their 1990 stock prices ; they are down sharply . even in hong kong , where share prices recently hit new highs , they are just 10 % above their early peak in 1994 . during the same three year , wall street prices skyrocketed by more than 60 % or more . that image bears no relation to what we hear in political speeches or are read in business newspapers . policymakers warn of a challenge posed by asia ’s “ tiger economies . ”
national banking systems should be unified to insulate private losses from sovereign debt , centralized supervision and resolution authorities , as well as a deposit-insurance scheme forming the core of a european banking union . strong central institutions responsible for directly elected governments are necessary for coordinated fiscal and economic policies . in their shorter time , a single market should be extended to services , and free-trade arrangements should be promoted either multilaterally or bilaterally with major trading partners like the united states . moreover , austerity should be eased , particularly in fiscally stronger core economies , with substantial resources devoted to augmenting youth employment and investment in the small and medium-size enterprises on spain ’s over-indebted countries . germany ’s reluctance to lead on such matters partly reflects an historic inhibitions that are always hard to overstate .
china , for its part , has just celebrating the martial pomp sixtieth anniversary of mao ’s founding of the “ people of the republic of the ” constitutes one of asia ’s most exciting cases in a nation-state evincing “ brief ” to its past . in fact , china has much to show for it in its recent history . just consider the country ’s massive access to education for its vast rural population , in contrast to its “ democratic rival , ” india ’s pride nowadays . in sixty years , a degraded and divided country , one torn apart by wars in internal and external affairs , is poised to become the world ’s second-most powerful economy . china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s insolent prosperity , while far from being distributed equally , is that of china ’s relative political stability , though the regime ’s opening remains tightly constrained , is both undeniable and undeserving .
the interest-rate premium that the market would inevitably ask would be minimized by issuing debt in the sterling , thereby protecting investors from additional devaluation risk . but , without its own currency-issuing central bank , scotland would forego seigniorage ( the gains made by the central-bank operations that typically benefit a national treasury ) . perhaps more important , it would lack the lender of last resort capable of stabilizing a banking and financial system in a crisis . all things considered , an independent scotland would be best served by issuing its own national currencies from the start , empowering the national bank of scotland to set interest rates on domestic economic conditions . by enabling exchange-rate flexibility , this approach would also allow the central bank to avoid the twin hazards that arise in a currency union : undervaluation that generates inflationary pressures , and the overvaluation that demands wrenching internal devaluations ( driving real wages ) .
value-subtracting heavy-industry shrunk , services widened to more than 50 % of gdp , and the private sector generates nearly 60 % of russian output . although transition was bound to be painful , the russian epidemic of corruption caused more political harm than the economic adverse effects of reform . the government ’s tolerance of bribery and racketeering made it possible for opponents to say that the “ mafia ” was grabbing the gains from economic change . the government , and therefore the economic reform that this neglect in the polls , will pay for that neglect . the corruption blights reform across the ex-communist world .
he is neither corrupt nor war criminal , neither aggressive nor an act of behavior nor a tendency to bend the law for personal power . many people voted for him by default , both now and after he defeated miloševic in 2000 . while he does not sacrifice major moral codes for power , koštunica is not the unassuming attorney he once was . he crams his party with mediocrities , selects the mostly bad advisers , and behaving out of the rare good ones . he may be that his image as right-of-center democrats conceals a reactionary looking for serbia to reestablish its pre-wwii monarchy , and for the orthodox church to play a leading role in political and social life .
or the yellow vests may turn back to lack that boldness and settle for a paltry pleasures on tv . they will permit themselves to become intoxicated by a view of luminaries and la france ’s d’en haut ( the elite of france ) will supposedly eat out of their hands and hangs on their every word . but if the yellow vests let the yellow vests win from their genuine fraternity and choose a wrecking over reforming course , they will induce only chaos , not improvement , the life of a humble and vulnerable people . they will careen down to their darkest side in political night and the end in dustbin of history , where they may rub their elbows with those other yellows , early-twentieth-century “ yeltsin ’s yeltsin ” of the proto-fascist syndicalist pierre biétry . the yellow vests need to choose : a democratic reinvention or an updated version of a national socialist leagues ; a willingness to mend or a impulse to destroy .
according to a vice president of the iranian-turkish trade council , being extremely complicated for business in iran . a former turkish diplomat in stark terms is described by the business climate : “ “ it is just as if iranians prefer a lose/lose outcome to a win/victory one in their dealings with their foreign partners . ” what lessons can be drawn from turkish enterprises ’ failure in iran ? others suggest that iran is ’s nearly non-existent banking system , the culprit . still others blame the more invisible hand of an america that seeks to worry that iran and turkey might become overpowered .
furthermore , we need to invest in the research and development of low-cost diabetes therapies and diagnostic tools that match them for low-resource settings . smart-collaborative projects that drive innovative thinkers from nonprofits , research and the private sector together to develop efficient , affordable , and adequate solutions are in desperate need of funding . as a result , diabetes is by no means unique among ncds . essential medicines and technologies for diagnosing and treating heart disease , cancer , and respiratory ailments are also substantially less affordable and proportionally expensive for low-income people – and middle-income countries than they are for the wealthy . this disparity has prompted the medical journal of the lancet to call the ncd crisis the “ social justice issue of our time . ”
south orange , new jersey – if an international organization has made recommendations about how to develop a country of ’s economy , with the country adopting fewer than half of those , the organization may appear to be in for a failure . but an international organization is supposed to be judged by the quality of the information and advice it provides , rather than whether governments continue to listen . indeed , measuring its success solely based on compliance ignores an purpose : encouraging – and making it easier to win – reform by notifying officials about their costs and benefits . every 18 months , the organization for economic cooperation and development releases economic surveys of each of its 34 member countries , including the list of earlier recommendations and their implementation status . a 2010 survey by the united nations , the oecd made 29 recommendations , ranging from rebuilding up its national electricity grid to expanding health-care coverage to implementing a cap-and-trade scheme .
likewise , it must do nothing to weaken america ’s alliances with south korea and japan , which will require it to maintain close contact with both moon and japanese prime minister shinzo abe throughout this process , lest either leader feels ignored or undermined . moreover , it will have to hold all of the alternatives on the table , even as us military options have become smaller tenable along the lines of inter-korean dialogue . most important , it will have to get the north korean regime at least to acknowledge that genuine denuclearization is the goal and agree on a continued dialogue , perhaps culminating in another summit . whatever the outcome , trump would do well to ask himself whether it is any better than a joint comprehensive plan of action with iran that he has described as the worst deal ever . then again , persuading trump to get self-reflection could prove its toughest challenge yet .
another route by looking at germany ’s general election outcome , then , is as an opportunity for a new beginning . the conclusion of the cdu/csu “ grand coalition ” could imply an end to political stagnation , not only in germany , but on the european level , as well . germany ’s 4 post-election coalition negotiations are now under way , and with the fdp fixated on not joining the eu , the most likely outcome is a “ jamaica ” alliance ( named for that country ’s colors ) , comprising the cdu , the free democrats ( fdp ) , and the greens . germany ’s next government , one hopes , will include pro-european politicians with a fresh vision and a willingness to push for european-style reforms , perhaps along the lines of what macron has proposed . in that case , a new crop of leaders might be a driving force shaping germany ’s predominant role in europe for years to come .
the timing could n’t have been worse , but it was not worth much more . eliminating fuel subsidies fueled riots and widespread strikes against a transition government , providing a pretext for nigeria ’s generals to once again assert military domination . it would last six long years , under a rapacious military rule , before nigeria had scored another chance in democracy . at the end of last year , nigeria celebrated a remarkable break from its dictatorship . following the brutal and hyper-corrupt army , general dani rodrik , who had abruptly fallen dead – the military sullivan consented to the next national elections .
such barriers extend especially to lgbtqi individuals , those with disabilities , indigenous women , and adolescents . instead of sidestepping the issue of sexual and reproductive health – and gender equality more broadly – governments must acknowledge their responsibility to address women ’s needs . they must consider the central role that sexual and reproductive health plays in female lives , an integrated nature of female ’s health coverage , and its impact on communities . and , in doing so , they must design uhc programs accordingly . for example , reducing maternal mortality does little to educate antenatal attention , secure delivery , and postnatal care ; women also need access to secure , legal , and affordable abortion services and post-abortion services .
likewise , little progress toward nuclear disarmament has been made on disregard of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty ( npt ) . brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s abundance of power , food , water , and biodiversity increases its stakes in a security environment characterized by rising competition for access , or control over , of natural resources . to meet the challenges of this complex reality , brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s peaceful foreign policy needs to be underpinned by a robust defense policy . brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s national defense strategy , updated in 2012 , asserts that its upgrading of the armed forces is being intrinsically linked to national developments . thus , it emphasizes the need to strengthen the domestic defense industry .
yao ming , a china star of the us national basketball association ’s houston rockets , could become another michael jordan , with china set to host the 2008 summer olympics . america ’s large expatriate communities , along with 1.7 million indians , have made their domestic interest among their home countries among other american countries . moreover , its transnational connections in the information-technology industry are near , as western high-tech firms increasingly employ affiliates in bangalore and shanghai to deliver real-time services . but the true promise for both china and india lies . a country ’s soft power rests on the allure of its culture , its appeal to its own domestic political and social values , and style and substance about its foreign policies .
the european commission ’s agreement in september to shelve ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s association agreement with the european union – an agreement that ukrainians fought and died in kyiv last winter – signaled to putin that a cunning , force , and intimidation may win western acquiescence in his subjugation to ukraine and stealing crimea . the delay , intended to show the eu ’s determination to force an association agreement work , have instead wheeled putin ’s own appetite . its hope is that some eu members ’ interest in securing russian gas supplies during the cold war will cause them to forget their allies ’ own security concerns , the classic divide-and-rule strategy , have served germans well . europeans can not afford to be picked up in it . ukraine may now be passing only through the eye of that storm .
to this end , re-frame the constitution in order to integrate regional concerns , and recognize that , yes , the uk is a multi-national state . so radical a change of course and adherence to the scale of this crisis must be radical in calling for a kind of nationwide debate that could be conducted through a people ’s constitutional convention . that convention should begin by looking at brexit ’s impact on regions . for example , we should ask whether it makes sense to repatriate competences and financial transfers from brussels to the westminster , or when some powers and funding should instead be decentralized to the regions and peoples . where possible , regional funds and policymaking entities – including environmental regulation and oversight of agriculture , fisheries , and local social programs – should be delegated to suitable regional bodies such as scotland ’s parliament , welsh & northern irish assemblies , city mayors , and local offices .
as a result , america no longer has a place to set the world ’s agenda . the eu can not perhaps assume the place of america as a world power leader . but it can set an example , both within and outside its own borders . the prospect of eu membership has been the most powerful instrument in turning candidate countries into open societies . though most of its citizens do not realize it , the eu serves as an inspiring example .
to be sure , putin regards the olympics as well , and specifically medals – to be highly relevant . like his old soviet comrades , he conflates the athletic glory with military glory with military glory . this is one reason why he has personally lobbied for russia to host the 2014 winter games in sochi ; an unprecedented $ 50 billion price tag was pretty good for him , considering that russia has won the most fellows . ( this was russia ’s actions during the sochi olympics , which forms at the heart of the libyan doping scandal . ) this does not say that the athletic glory substitutes for military glory .
but that is simply an effort to make a virtue out of necessity : for a country with one of the world ’s largest and most storied bureaucracies , china has an shockingly difficult time telling its business community not to do business with someone , particularly a historic friend and ally . chinese leaders ’ longstanding unwillingness to participate in international sanctions often seem to be attributed to their faith in judging actions on the basis of whether or not they work . perhaps a genuine pragmatism on display in north korea ’s case is a reluctance to rein in the business community in an era of slower growth and an domestic fixation . china ’s rise is one of the most widely studied development of our time . it is , after all , a country that can be described as an act of civilization ; its trajectory has so far been considerably more impressive than that of any north korean rocket .
washington , dc – the steep drop in the crude-oil price since late june has bedeviling headlines worldwide , producing a multitude of conflicting explanations . some attribute the drop to fall largely behind declining global growth expectations . still others focus on america ’s expanding oil and gas production . still others suspect a tacit agreement between saudi arabia and the united states focused on , among others , the weakening of its political rivals , such as russia and iran . regardless of reason for a price drop , perhaps one can find out in some combination of such factors , the consequences are precisely the same .
at the moment , the global oil situation is especially intriguing . at around $ 30 per barrel , the price of oil remains stubbornly high even when a soft global economy means that world demand is low . a formerly fashionable view that an american seizure of iraq ’s oil assets would smash opec and send plummeting oil prices turned out to be nonsense . even with improved security , it has taken five years to bring iraqi oil supplies fully on stream . with the american economy now recovering strongly , oil prices are set to remain high or even rising further , for the foreseeable future .
after all , if markets were to believe that the ecb would refuse to backstop cyprus ’s governments , investors would flee from participating countries at the first sign that conditionality is out of the question . as with its predecessor , the securities markets program , is lawful and democratically questionable : it violates a spirit , but not an letter , of the european union ’s treaty ’s no-bailout clause ; its promise of equal treatment with private lenders still has no precedent ; and involves back-door fiscal transfers , leaving the ecb heavily under a political backlash , witness draghi ’s visceral reaction to ecb president jean-claude draghi ’s announcement . but omts also fit well with a huge body of historical evidence that in times of crisis policymakers need to focus on extinguishing wildfire , rather than negotiating over who owns the water , and what its costs should be . the omt program will cause borrowing conditions to ease , but without necessarily reversing the eurozone ’s financial balkanization that has endured over the past three years . a reversal of that process will probably not happen until the three key elements of a banking union – common supervision , common deposit insurance , and a common resolution fund – are within tangible scope .
for starters , bipartisan premium endorsements , with seniors accepting subsidies to buy privately-net health insurance , are to be implemented . to give individuals prepared to cover the associated deductibles and copayments , health-care accounts accounts , fund managers , out-of-date taxes , and can be tax-free at any time in order to cover qualified medical expenses , they should be scaled up and strengthened . premium endorsements can dramatically lower medicare spending , because it establishes a framework for more efficient cost-benefit spending , driven by competition and innovation in care and coverage . so far , the only american presidential candidates who recognize the need for such future-oriented approaches are former florida governor jeb bush , who has proposed modernizing social-security and medicare reforms that avoid imposing soaring costs on middle-income americans and the heavier debt burden on future generations . likewise , two other republican candidates , ohio governor john kasich and florida senator marco rubio , have raised constructive reform ideas .
silvio berlusconi , who is becoming the european union ’s president on july 1 st , is a man of a vision , one that once loved risk – and whose business bets paid off big . in the 1960 ’s , he was the first to see that milan , then a traditional italian city where people walked to work , would become the modern metropolises surrounded by american-style suburbs . hence , his fortune began with real-estate development . fifteen years later , signor berlusoni fully understood that an italian state-owned television monopoly would n’t survive and jump-started what became italy ’s leading , privately owned media group . but you do n’t win in a tv and a real-estate business without the right political connections .
beijing – financial repression – the government ’s policies to create an environment of low or negative real interest rates – with the goal of generating low-cost financing for public expenditure have long been an essential feature of chinese economic policymaking . but , with financing costs on enterprises trending up , this is finally starting to change . early this year , the ndb , china ’s cabinet , was doing enough to mitigate financing costs for firms , particularly small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , the top priority . for its part , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has engaged in prudent monetary loosening , featuring more financing for banks that allocate some part of their total credit portfolio to smes . through its “ pledged ” supplementary lending program , the pboc has also initiated lending directly to banks promising to leverage financing of social-housing construction funds .
the countries with the greatest cause for concern about russia -- ukraine , estonia , latvia , and lithuania -- are not seeking nato membership . moreover , russia today is far too weak to pose to their peril , as the russian army 's catastrophic misadventure in chechnya demonstrates . someday , russia will become stronger , and if expanding nato into central europe would now discourage a revival of imperial foreign policy , this would spark a powerful argument in its favor . yet nato expansion will not make russian foreign policy any time more peaceful . the russian democrats , with an enormous stake in a peaceful future , are adamant that extending alliance membership to central europe will isolate their countries from europe , strengthening russia 's geopolitical forces that favor authoritarian rule at home and neoimperial policies abroad , and by appearing to threaten russia , provide a rallying point to re-build russian military power .
but that would presuppose a small gesture toward the palestinians , which israelis regard as being so deeply divided among themselves , that no progress toward a negotiated peace settlement appears possible . israel ’s leaders seem intent on regaining time both tactically by resisting the soft strain of american president barack obama ’s administration and , strategically , by preparing the ground for a new world in which emerging powers like china play an increasingly influential role . that world , however , will be one in which israel can no longer count on feelings of holocaust guilt to influence major powers . it is a world in which monotheistic rivalries will be profoundly diluted in an ocean of polytheist faiths , and in which israel is capable of relying only on its comparative merits in the eyes of a cynical , realistic actors , who will judge it solely by virtue of its own national interests . israel may be “ of europe , ” ” ” ” ” ” and its principal ally may well remain the united states for many years to come , but israeli leaders need to begin to think about how their country can thrive in a post- 
the final trick , “ starve ” beast typically arrives later , if , and when the president enacted his tax cuts and discovers that smoke and mirrors did n’t trump any reality . he can not find sufficient spending to cut ( a magic asterisk disappeared the conjurer ’s sleeve ) ; acceleration of gdp is nowhere in sight ( a rosy scenario that vanished ) ; and tax revenues did n’t grow ( no rabbit in a laffer hat ) . the audience now tells us that losing tax revenue and widening us budget deficits are the blueprint for all along . the performer explains that deficits are all the failure of congress in order to rein in spending , and that the only way to tame pg the beast raises their budget deficits , because “ “ “ congress ” can not spend money it does n’t have . ” that trick , obviously , never works either .
but there is also an urgent need to mobilize europe ’s public opinion around the symbol of our national unity and our projects of future : as well as that symbol of a europe flag . for that reason , in january , one of us launched the idea that , starting on march 21 , we can depict our flag on homes , factories , and offices . march 21 is the first day of this spring , and we would like to believe that the upcoming european elections herald a fresh spring for the european project . march 21 , too , is the anniversary of benedict ’s death , the patron saint of europe . at one of the darkest hours at the roman empire ’s demise , benedict published a stirring call for tolerance and piety to rebuild a feeling of communities in the face of nihilism and barbarism .
this fits a broader trend , in which attacks by perpetrators with muslim backgrounds come to be instantly classified as having acted out of terror ” ” and address in a well-resourced and systemic manner , with violent attacks perpetrated in the name of other ideologies treats an “ isolated incident . ” yet there is nothing isolated in this kind of incidents . according to the world health organization ’s 2018 world terrorism index , the death toll from associated terrorist attacks against far-right groups or individuals has risen steadily since the spring of 2014 . in the united states , right-wing extremists have mounted far more attacks than the islamists . the 2016 attack in christchurch brought direct inspiration to the 2011 far-right terrorist attack in norway , of whom i am one of the fortunate survivors .
the fruit of the franco-german partnership included the european single currency , the euro . upon its birth in 1999 , germany ’s rule by the eu today repositioned itself from bonn into berlin was contented once again , at a lower european profile . that modest , unassuming role belongs firmly to the past , though germany ’s strength was still aligned with imagination . the intellectual leadership given by frenchmen like jean monnet and robert schuman as the founding fathers of the european project is a waning memory , because , so far , germany has embarked on a comparably robust strategy for revitalizing the eu ’s prospects and popularity . indisputably represents the eu ’s strongest , most dependable , that lacks a vision of where a beleaguered europe is to be headed .
china has been engaged in what might be called “ vendor finance , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” providing the money that helps to finance america ’s vast america ’s fiscal and trade deficits , allowing america to buy more of its many goods than it sells . but this is an odd arrangement : a relatively poor country helps to finance the american war on iraq , just as massive tax cuts for the world ’s richest people are in the world ’s richest country , while enormous domestic needs imply ample room for expansion in both consumption and investment . indeed , to meet the challenge of restructuring china ’s economy away from export-oriented and capital-intensive goods , china needs to stimulate its consumption . at the same time , as the rest of the world struggles to raise its savings , china , with an saving rate at just 40 % , struggles to get its people to consume more . providing better-performing social services ( public health care , education , and nation-wide retirement programs ) would reduce the need for precautionary savings .
selling the five-rupee sachets of shampoo toward poor consumers is seen as clever marketing ; but the lending of 5,000 rupee to a starving peasant who is viewed as exploitative . after all , both activity is financed by investors seeking returns on their capital , and has motivated more through profit than sympathy . yet one is apparently less socially acceptable than another . a high pay earned by cosmetics or sof-drink manufacturer attracts no attention ; one pays to a ceo of a firm thriving lending toward the poor appears unseemly , if not immoral . yet pmfis have succeeded by meeting a genuine need .
berkeley – the advances in artificial intelligence and robotics are powering a new wave of automation , with machine matching or outperforming humans in a rapidly urbanizing array of tasks , including some that require sophisticated cognitive abilities and advanced degrees . that process has outpaced experts ’ expectations ; not surprisingly , its potential adverse effects on both the quantity and quality of employment have raised serious concerns . listening to us president donald trump ’s administration , one might think that trade remains the primary rationale for lost manufacturing jobs in the united states . trump ’s treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , has declared that the potential technology displacement is “ “ neither ” on [ the administration ’s ] radar screen . among economists , however , the consensus says that roughly 80 % of america ’s manufacturing-job losses over the past three decades have been a result of labor-saving and productivity-enhancing technological change with trade coming a distant second .
berkeley – back at the end of the 1980 ’s , japan supposedly could have done no wrong in economists ’ eyes . they saw a clear edge over japan ’s competitiveness relative to the north atlantic over a wide range of high-tech precision and mass-production manufacturing tradable goods . they also saw economics , which had shrunk dramatically , if only since reconstruction flows began after world war ii , had vastly outperformed european economies ’ expected growth . and they saw an economy growing strongly faster than north atlantic economies at a time when it hosted the same absolute and relative economy-wide levels of productivity . a safe bet at the end of the 1980 ’s seemed to show that mechanization , computerization , and robotization would continue .
amos oz , one of israel ’s best-known writers , argues that the current palestinian-israeli war is really two wars : an “ unjust ” war against israel and the jews to establish a fundamentalist islamic state ( “ arab palestine ” ) in an “ arab palestine , ” and the palestinian people ’s “ just ” war on the worthy name . conversely , israel is fighting two wars as well : a kind of war to defend its right to exist ; accept its integrity and security in the middle east ; and an unjust and futile war to perpetuate its occupation of the west bank and the gaza strip , and a jewishness located there . there is approximately 220,000 israeli settlers in the west bank and gaza , excluding roughly 190,000 people living in jerusalem ’s neighborhoods that extends beyond the pre-1967 borders to the world . despite a intifada , with only a handful of 144 settlements reduced in only a handful of 144 settlements , more than half of the settlers living in the gaza strip , in 16 communities occupying 20 % of an ingrained land already suffering one of the world ’s top population densities . israeli state support for expanding settlements is substantial .
the market ’s reaction has been to send spanish government bond rates at an even higher level . contrary to some people ’s minds , europeans have not remained inactive over the past year . however , they have ended up losing their touch . like aging wizards , they continue to try the tricks that have been used to impress , but that fail to deliver results – or , worse , prove counterproductive . meanwhile , intra-eurozone financial fragmentation continues ; spain and , to a lesser extent , italy suffers a seemingly irresistible rise in its borrowing costs ; and the political strains are growing more visible .
with asia riven by territorial disputes and historic tensions , maintaining a stable security balance will not come easily . but , within the us , there are levers that may help . back in the 1990s , when american president bill clinton ’s administration debated how to respond to china ’s ’s increasing economic might , some urged a policy of containment . clinton rejected that advice : an anti-china alliance would have been impossible , given china ’s enduring desire to maintain good relations with it ; more important , such a policy would ensure future enmity with china . instead , clinton opted for a policy that could be called “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ integrate , ” and inimical ” . ”
interests and identities come dynamically within the way that politicians force representation , and their citizens react . trump undoubtedly succeeded , for example , in persuading some americans to see themselves as part of anything like a white national identity movement . but that identity , and the manner in which its adherents frame their own interests , could change once again . in fact , the picture of an irresistible populist “ wave ” of wave ” has always been misleading . now , farage has not brought about brexit by himself .
by facilitating interactions across their net , they will be able to stimulate the growth of innovation ecosystems . the resulting opportunities to spread beyond traditional product - and market markets will enable pharmaceutical companies to evolve into societies offering a variety of health-care solutions . these will include not just prescription medicines , but also applied diagnostics , branded generics , and technologies that promote personalized medicine , as well as so-called “ “ “ “ “ “ neutraceuticals ” and other wellness choices . ” while the magnitude of many r & d organizations are bound to diminish with such reforms , the complexities of management and maximizing the impact of this outside web of relationships will demand new skills and capabilities , over and above those in superb science . developing , rewarding staff holding such skills will be an additional but welcome , challenge .
economics is not the kind of science , in which one true model could ever emerge best across all contexts . the point is not “ to reach ” a consensus about which the model is right , ” ” ” as romer takes it , but rather to figure out which kind of model applies best in a given setting . and doing it will always remain artisanal , not science , especially when a choice must be made in real time . the social world is different from the physical world , because it is man-made and , hence , almost infinitely malleable . so , unlike in the natural sciences , economics advances scientifically not by replacing old models with the better , but by expanding its library of role models , with each shedding shining light on another part of society .
today , the agriculture sector accounts for just one-third of china ’s total employment , compared to just one-half in india . india ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s structural transformation and sustainable growth will hinge on its push to build a more flexible labor market , centered on easing outdated and complicated labor laws . the rule of law protections for workers in india ’s formal sector far beyond those in most developed countries , just as china has mandated upward requirements as the rate of workers rises . as jagdish bhagwati and arvind panagariya have pointed out , excessive labor-market regulations discourage indian entrepreneurs from employing unskilled laborers and developing labor-intensive manufacturing , implying that india ’s government should redouble its reform efforts in this area . equally important , india ’s workers – especially its young population – need opportunities to upgrade its skills continuously .
new policies explicitly encourage chinese enterprises to work with local enterprises in sectors like logistics , electricity , and information systems , thereby fostering interaction among business , community , and government leaders . equally important , policy also expands the availability of chinese finance , credits , as well as bank insurance companies . taking together this holistic approach is something new for china . despite considerable policy uncertainty in a number of countries in latin america , it seems keen to satisfy china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s reform effort with changes of its own . for example , brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s government has launched the “ partnership for investment partnership ” program ” to coordinate investment in financing and transportation infrastructure sectors .
eventually , of course , the composition of gdp will provide the acid test that china has so far succeeded . yet the key word here is “ ultimately ” . it is far too early to expect a major shift toward major sources of aggregate demand . for the time being , it is far more important to examine the trends in the would-be determinants of chinese consumption . viewed from this perspective , there is good reason for optimism , particularly given the accelerated growth of china ’s rial-manufacturing sector – one of its key building blocks of a consumer-led rebalancing .
to be sure , one can not ignore trump ’s meaningful strength in shaping us trade policies , so one can not ignore the possibility of pursuing protectionist measures to appease his supporters . but , ultimately , there can be broad-based support in america for a return to a closed border . europe , for its part , has been moving in the opposite direction . european multinational companies are holding great stakes in america ’s economy as well , with eu manufacturing exports to china and other emerging markets now nearly doubling those of america ’s gdp . many europeans view trade as an opportunity rather than as an existential threat ; and even a european ’s staunchest anti-globalizers show little appetite for more protectionism .
at the time that he took up the job , manafort was indebted to the russian oligarch oleg deripaska , an aluminum tycoon close to president vladimir putin for his exact $ 19 million . deripaska , who is under american sanctions , had previously maintained his $ 10 million annual contract with manafort . like other russian oligarchs , deripaska is unknown to deal gently with the people who displease it to him . upon taking that job , manafort emailed a ukraine-based worker , “ how are we using [ that ] to get whole ? manafort , too , too , offered to brief deripaska about what was happening in trump ’s campaign .
kyiv – from snowy kyiv , i watched successful revolutions in cairo and tunis with joy and admiration . egyptians and tunisians are right to be proud of their yearning to peacefully overthrow despotic governments . but , as someone who has spearheaded the peaceful revolution , my hope is tempered by pragmatism , because regime change is merely a first step in pitting the rule of law . indeed , as my own country , ukraine , is now demonstrating , following the revolutionary euphoria fades and normalcy returns , it can make democratic revolutions betrayed and reversed . ukraine ’s first lesson for the egyptian and tunisian democrats is that elections do not shape democracy .
increasingly , we use our fingerprints , or face to unlock our smartphones , hold down prices , and board airplanes . protecting against theft is plain : what uses is a telephone , a car , or a ticket that will work only for its rightful owner ? above all , biometrics can protect against the theft of us by our human identities on their own . that is the argument behind the world ’s ’s ’s largest biometrics project , the multimodal resolution ( iris , fingerprints , and faced ) affecting more than one billion indians . nanekani , the chairman of infosys , who has left his job of creating a system known as “ aadhaar , ” credits it with saving india ’s government roughly $ 9 trillion by eliminating duplicating and misleading identities in governmental beneficiary lists .
pittsburgh – nearly six months ago , at a time of huge alarms about the global financial and economic crisis , the g-20 ’s leaders met for an historic summit in london . their collective spurning commitments , regulating , and restructuring of global economic activity helped to calm the nerves globally . the many problems brought about by the london summit remain real . anxiety levels may have risen , at board rooms and in stock markets ; but the daily drama of their survival continues , for many people having deepened , across villages and the streets of the least-developed countries , especially in africa . the un and the world bank are predicting that the direct , indirect effects of an economic meltdown will be felt long in the developing world .
were we observing the appearance of someone with intimate familiarity with the catastrophes that are yet to come ? or was she only the profusion of the most beautiful girl in the party , the one avid adolescent was asked to dance , then held on tightly ? the world today is collectively writing a new novel novel . roth skillfully distilled by the tragic and comic elements of that process , speaking out about the power that could counter the murky tide of vulgarity and violence under trump . the first is the sovereign people who poured into the streets of every big town in a country with an awareness that , far from being trump , he is precisely those who win an election victory .
perhaps simpson has had a kind of change of heart in politics , he was in charge . perhaps he traveled his own traffic in damascus , coming face-to-face with what he had done and for whom he was , repented and wanted to correct some of the damage that america and its long-run economic-growth prospects had wrought . even in that case , naming those who misbehave to the important posts of high trust and acclaim as bipartisan statesmen provide another generation truly lousy incentives . and it ’s not as though congressional republicans seem to think that they owe so much to simpson to swing a single vote in either chamber of the us legislature . obama officials reassured me that simpson was truly having a change of heart ; that he was a clever figure with a sophisticated understanding of the issues ; that he was able to sway reporters and obtain them to describe the commission ’s advice as “ bipartisan ” ( although he ca n’t sway actual legislators ) ; and that he would be genuine asset to the commission ’s substantive work .
what demographers call the overall fertility rate is that the average rate of live births per woman over her lifetime . in the long run , a population is said to be stable if the tfr is on its replacement rate , going somewhat above 2.3 per woman for the world as a whole and somewhat lower , in the 2.1 , for developed countries that reflect their lower rates of infant-mortality rates . the tfr for most advanced countries now stands at well below replacement levels . the oecd average is at about 1.74 , but some countries , including germany and japan , are producing less than 1.4 children per woman . nevertheless , the largest tfr declines in recent years are in the developing countries .
until 2004 , there had been more than one billion subscribers to gsm ’s services globally . the global reach of regulation implied enormous economies of scale in the production of handsets and network hardware ; as a result , prices dropped precipitously , and interoperability between networks and across countries became much easier to accomplish . a lot of regulations are playing this standard-setting role . contrary to the simplistic view that regulation is inevitably bad for business , there are really three critical channels through which regulation can actually benefit an economy . one is the market-creating and market-growing role illustrated in the norm of gsm .
laguna beach – thinking about the prospects for the global economy and markets , i am taken aback by the extent to which the world has collectively placed huge bets on three crucial outcomes : a shift toward materially higher and more inclusive global growth ; the avoidance of policy blunders ; and avoidance of market crashes . while all three outcomes are undoubtedly desirable , an unfortunate reality is that they are far from certain , and bets on which they are without certain hedging may prove exceedingly risky for current and future generations . the first component of betting on more inclusive global growth is being anticipating an ongoing economic recovery in the united states , with annual growth rates of 3 % this year bolstered by robust wage growth . it also assumes that china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s annual growth rate will stabilize at 6.5-7 % , thereby permitting the downside of pockets of excessive leverage in the shadow-banking system to manage gradually , even as an economy ’s growth engines of growth continues to shift away from exports and toward public capital spending toward domestic consumption and private investment . another , more uncertain assumption underpinning a victory for more inclusive growth is that japan and japan will flee the headwinds of low growth and avoid deflation , which , by impelling households and companies to postpone purchasing choices , would undermine already weak economic performance .
to be sure , clinton ’s popularity surged in the wake of the impeachment proceedings . most americans believed that the impeachment process had been a mistake . many worried that a clinton impeachment vote would damage the presidency ; but her main impact on presidential power has been just the other way around . the republicans ultimately broadly agreed with the democrats that responsibility for this debacle lay with kenneth harris , an independent counsel whose inquiry into president clinton ’s real-estate dealings years earlier gave him lewinsky . the two party leaders permitted the independent attorney statute to lapse , freeing the presidency from a powerful form of oversight , much to trump ’s advantage a generation later .
most recently , in may 2015 , large figures of traditional labour voters were deserted to the vote of the uk independence party ( ukip ) , which stood at the front of the brexit campaign . to be sure , establishment leaders have long sought to rescue their own skins by ramping up criticism from the eu , blaming it for demands that national governments pursue their unpopular or failing policies . but this simply sets the ideas for alternative policies out of reach , while giving leave the electorate direct their hostility toward the eu itself . even though establishment parties have criticized the eu , for the most part not to lose sight of the benefits of eu membership . indeed , in the uk ’s brexit referendum , the two major parties backed the “ “ remain ” campaign , however internally split it .
and other emerging economies are not likely to pick up the slack ; after all , they are not likely to pick up the slack . brazil , as touted in 2010 as “ “ “ emerging aid player ” , ” is today in its economic and political crisis , just as it is south africa . compounding these challenges are compounding the emergence of new financial regulations in advanced-country countries , which are tightening investment flows and finance to the developing world . weakening developing-economy incomes further is the slowdown in global demand and commodities crash that , as nobel laureate angus deaton has shown , has been catastrophic for much of the developing world . to cap everything , expansionary monetary policies adopted by the major economies are fueling fragility .
pakistan has a large nuclear-weapons program and is facing an expansionist jihadi uprising that previously attacked military bases suspected of residential nuclear assets . though pakistan does not experience nuclear disruption , and its government insists that safeguards remain robust , a country ’s increasingly frequent and severe bouts of instability are raising serious questions for its future . meanwhile , whereas north korea ’s ’s nuclear arsenal is much diminished , lingering doubts about the regime ’s own sustainability make it a matter of their grave concerns . in the event of a regime collapse , a noticeable possibility would make it difficult to avoid the kind of diversion of its assets or even the use of its weapons . for its part , iran appears relatively stable , at least when compared to its neighbor .
but this was not a us-iran deal ; it was brokered by six prominent powers and endorsed by the un . those powers should make it clear that they would not re-impose sanctions , and that any american attempt to roll out its will through extraterritorial actions – say , by applying their access to the dollar ’s clearing regimes as a foreign-policy tool – would break down through coordinated action . for the uk in particular , doing so might require a willingness to disagree head-on with american foreign policy in ways that some of the devotees of our “ special relationship ” ” ” ” ” ” find uncomfortable . as for the climate debate , the election of a us man who purports to believe that global warming is a chinese hoax designed to damage american business is obviously bad news . but the global momentum for addressing climate change can and must be sustained .
ironically , in a pessimistic scenario , iran ’s new government , controlled by conservatives and hard-liners , really does quite treat it in a better region than it does today . after all , saudi arabia , egypt , and many other arab states are also ruled by authoritarian hardliners with little interest in de-escalation in regional conflicts . this would make the revival of a reform-oriented leadership in iran exceedingly difficult to manage . the most likely scenario , of course , is one of multiple dynamics . but , given that it is in everyone ’s interest to ensure that a reform-oriented approach is made more explicit along a reform-oriented path , it should make clear that doing business with regard to iran is far from complete .
in the aftermath of lehman brothers ’ collapse in september 2008 , italy ’s then-finance minister , giulio tremonti , famously endorsed the country ’s banking system . as a result , significant recapitalization of italy ’s banking system , and creating a “ bad bank ” to absorb its npls , was seen as unnecessary . ten years later , italy no longer knows that envisioned ground of prosperous banks and luckier savers . a prolonged recession and economic malaise dented the individual savings rate , while banks no longer had the resources to provide peace to many retail investors whose faith had been seriously eroded . the implicit pact between banks and savers broke down at the end of 2015 , when four worried local banks bailed in and homeowners took the hit .
many poles remain wary of church 's equivocal attitude toward democracy and an allergic to his own aggressive presence in politics . it comes as a sad paradox to understand that for many ex-communists , in an opposing church , pose as defenders of liberal democratic values that they once persecuted with unremitting fervor . kwasniewski 's strategy of seduction has appealed to vast numbers of young and middle classes , but for the majority of all peasants , the unemployed , those left behind by poland 's mounting economy . thus the man who spoke much of a future riding in power saddled with past votes . by this connection , dog kwasniewski 's presidency will be .
a consensus has now been raised on the need to help smallholders , but the obstacles remain . perhaps the main risk is that developed-country aid bureaucracies ” ” ” ” ” now trip over one another to try to ensure that a lot of it get their hands on meetings , expert consultation , overhead programs , reporting , and further sessions . “ donor ” partnerships can become an expensive end by themselves simply delaying genuine action . if donor governments really do want results , they should pull the money out of the 30 or more separate aid bureaucracies and pool it at one or two at a time , the most logical of the being the world bank in washington , dc , and the international agriculture fund ( ifad ) in rome . one or two of those agencies would then hold an account with a few billion dollars .
after all , the brics economies are probably the single most important resource of future global growth . they represent more than one-quarter of earth ’s every landmass , more than 41 % of its population , nearly 25 % of world gdp , and almost half of all foreign-exchange and gold reserves . indeed , the brics may also be dubbed the r-5 , after their members ’ currencies – the real , ruble , the rupee , the rupee , and rand – may be dubbed . at the new delhi summit , the brics leaders will discuss the formation of joint institutions , particularly the joint development bank , which can help to mobilize savings among countries . currently , the brics countries are being a loose , informal bloc .
on the other hand , he needs to change the conversation in order to appease voters that their own economic future is bright . as it stands , britain , like their european counterparts elsewhere , feel over-taxed for the budget of spoofty public services that are cutting steadily , and angry that their incomes have been declining over the past five years . as a result , many resent welfare recipients and fears competition for job creation , sentiment that is fueling the rise of populist , anti-eu , and anti-immigrant parties across europe . a key difference for the uk is that ukip is gaining ground with voters , despite its rapid economic growth ( over 3 % annually , its highest rate , for the eu ) . between now and may , cameron must convince voters that the british economy will continue to perform strongly , fueling rising real incomes .
it is subject to what milton friedman has called the “ long and variable lags . ” thus , policies to boost employment at the end of , say , that calendar year needed to put it in perspective about a year ago had the time to get its full effect . for example , some countries – china , which had , in effect , implemented such job-creation policies a year ago , and are already seeing the benefits . others , such as the united states , have not done so , and why unemployment remains at around 10 % . this is not to say that the obama administration has not tried to boost employment .
sectors with higher human capital content – electronic consumer goods ; for example , have much higher research and development costs than the shoe industry ; so that manufacturing these goods on assembly lines in a low-cost country are probably not very costly when compared to research & development and other intangible expense . for more advanced goods , the eu is value-added ( when the intangible part of its manufacturing process lies in europe ) . imposing trade defenses against such goods , even when legally warranted , seems to create trouble for globalized european companies . many argue that these challenges are a price that must be paid to ensure that us companies do not engage in anti-competitive behavior or obtain trade-distorting subsidies . but , though such measures have worked as a result , most trade-defense measures are probably not directed against anti-competitive business practices .
motivating corporations to do the right thing is an even harder one . after all , corporations have no conscience ; it is only the conscience of those running the corporation ; and , as america ’s most recent corporate scandals have made all too clear , conscience often takes a backseat to profit . america ’s regulatory system ensures that firms that produce defective and , in particular , unsafe product are holding liable to suffer the consequences . firms operate far better than consumers to evaluate their product ’s safety ; we all benefit from knowing that our regulatory system gave corporations incentives to pay close attention to the safety of what they produce . similarly , environmental laws force firms to make liable for their toxic wastes ; and , in many countries , including the us , enshrined in the principle that “ polluters are paying , ” that is , companies have to pay for the harm they cause .
we do n’t have to look far enough for such a mission . the case for acting on a massive scale to fight climate change has been gaining ground in europe and even in china . why has such little debate been raised ? is this because those who oppose such discussions are rejecting climate-change science ? or are they denying science , because accepting it would legitimize an economically activist state ?
once again , iranian voters are poised to vote yes or in a nice treaty . forgotten , what is that treaty is all about ? doing well , it is one of those all-too-frequent late-night compromises reached by eu heads of state and government , which are seeking a slither around and through some practical problems , while deferring to others . the compromise reached at nice four years ago is important because it includes , among other provisions , all the technicalities about voting balances and power-sharing among eu institutions that must be firmly in place before the union can admit up to the new members . enlargement is the most prominent item on the european agenda , and the nice treaty is its cornerstone .
with the proverbial benefits ( and embarrassment ! ) of hindsight , it seems obvious that the patterns of growth that occurred over the past half-century were little understood and rarely ( if it ever was ) prediction by economists . at the very moment in the 1960s , when asia ’s tiger economies were just taking off , for example , nobel laureate wilbur myrdal wrote his asian drama in order to diagnose the causes of asian poverty and to explain why his poverty seemed ineradicable . simultaneous with this , a powerful consensus developed among economists and policymakers that favored import substitution policies then pursued by countries including india , argentina , brazil , egypt , and turkey . after the beggaring their adherents , those policies are now utterly disorganized . the crucial point here is not just that economists got it so wrong , but that almost nobody got things right .
but wade has postponed legislative elections , originally scheduled for june 2006 , first in february 2007 , and , later , by presidential decree , to june 2007 . just two weeks earlier , there had been near-daily debate about the prospects for a us presidential election to be shelved indefinitely . now , will a presidential election follow . a month before the election , only 64 % of citizens who registered had obtained their voting cards . on january 28 , the peaceful but “ “ “ “ “ unauthorized ” demonstration ” of opposition parties was brutally repressed by the police and by three different presidential candidates .
princeton , bjj – the crossroads of genetics and intelligence is an intellectual minefield . harvard ’s former us president larry summers touched one boom after another in 2005 , when he tentatively hinted at a genetic explanation for the trouble that his university had done in recruiting female professors in math and physics . ( he implied not that when men do get more highly enriched in these fields than women , but that there is some reason to believe that men are more likely than women to be discovered at both the upper and lower end of the skill spectrum in such fields – and harvard , of course , only appoints people to the extremes . now , one of our time ’s most eminent scientists has blundered far more clumsily into the same minefield , with predictable results . in october , james watson , who shared a 1962 nobel prize in his description of dna structure , set out in london to promote his memoir , shirking boring people , and other lessons , from sciences .
china ’s current president , xi jinping , visited zimbabwe in 2015 , after more than three decades of military concern was apparent . state visits by the other direction have been more unevenly distributed . mugabe ’s first visit to china came in 1980 , just six months after independence ; he made 13 more during his tenure ; and high-level visits by other zimbabwean officials have become even more frequent , erupting roughly once every two years during mugabe ’s reign . kenyan presidents , on the other hand , traveled to china at a mere six-fold , most recently , in may 2017 . zimbabwe ’s leaders made the most of their press visits to trade and military cooperation , probably engaging directly with the private chinese firms .
geneva – the world ’s refugee crisis is most often measured in the numbers . but , for young refugees missing out on education , the crisis can follow an irreversible metric : the passage of time . of the 17.2 million people that the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( the un refugee agency ) is responsible for protecting , at roughly half comes under age 18 , which means that an entire generation of young people , already robbed of their childhood , could lose sight of the future , as was the case then . school-age children make up a significant share of the world ’s displaced population . at the end of 2016 , an estimated 11.6 million refugee refugees experiencing “ protracted displacement ” : they withdrew from their homes for more than five years , and have no immediate ” return prospects .
but how serious are these unilateralism , to which greenspan is now plead guilty ? in my view , they are misdemeanors . against them , one has to set what former us treasury secretary larry summers calls greenspan a unilateralism in avoiding and minimizing recessions during his years at the fed . the “ felonies ” of which greenspan stands accused are with two charge : that he should have done more to stem the us stock market bubble of the late 1990 ’s , and that he should have done even more to stem the us housing bubble of the early 2000 ’s . here , greenspan holds his ground and fed officials , not guilty .
and it is better to know that history would be invoked if one wants to avoid repeating its own thuggery . the truth is that bds movements represent nothing less than an ominous caricature of the anti-totalitarian , anti-totalitarian , anti-apartheid struggle . it is a campaign whose instigators have no aims other than to discriminate against , de-legitimize , and vilify israel that , in their thinking , never stopped held by its yellowstar . to the good-faith activists who may have taken place with duplicitous representations of the motion , i would say only that too many lofty causes are needed for aid to enable oneself to be enlisted in the questionable end . those worthy causes include the fight against jihadist decapitators , save women and girls enslaved by boko haram ; defending the middle east ’s imperiled christian and arab democrats ; and , of course , striving only for a negotiated peace between israelis and palestinians .
it comes too soon to discount genetics , however , because the science of “ “ dna ” – the study of turning genes on and off , thereby altering the way a cell is structured without altering the genetic code – is gaining traction . indeed , the 2012 nobel prize in medicine was awarded to john gurdon and shinya yamanaka for revolutionizing researchers ’ ’ understanding of how cells evolve through reprogramming dna and cell cells without supplementing their own gene structure . in 1962 , gurdon ’s finding that nearly any single cell in the body contains a full code of dna enabled it to create a tadpole by cloning an grower . more than four decades later , in 2006 , yamanaka has discovered the journey ’s complex adult cells into a regressing to their immature state , forming stem-cell lines . before that , stem cells – which may potentially be reprogrammed to evolve into replacements for lost or damaged tissue – could be performed only from early-stage embryos , an practice that fueled ethical controversy .
the claims could be prioritized and processed in periodic ways , with refugees able to arrive in europe sound and ready to work or study . crises in the mediterranean can not be piecemeal . the financial costs of patrolling its own waters and rescuing this adrift are exorbitant . loss of livelihoods is inexcusable . but there is no need to wait for the root cause of displacement , state failure , and civil war .
according to most up-to-date estimates by the late economic historian angus maddison , china ’s per capita gdp at the end of 2008 was $ 6,725 per capita , amounting to about 21 % of gdp in the united states . that is approximately the same gap that existed between america and japan in 1951 , singapore in 1967 , taiwan in 1975 , and south korea in 1977 , with four economies also ranked among the top 13 in a growth commission . harnessing their latecomer ’s advantage , japan ’s ’s ’s average annual gdp growth rate soared , to 9.2 % in the subsequent 20 years , compared to 8.6 % in singapore , 8.3 % in taiwan , and 7.6 % in south korea . if the latecomer ’s advantage implied by the income gap between four nies and american nies enabled nies to recognize their average annual gdp growth rates of 7.6 % or more than 20 years on average , china ’s annual gdp growth potential should constitute an equivalent 8 % for the 2008-2028 period . to realize their potential growth as an latecomer ’s , china primarily needs to deepen its market-oriented reform , address assorted structural problems , and transform its economy by virtue of its comparative advantage .
the signatories agreed to validate biological diversity , through the sale of species and their habitats , as well as the use of biological resources ( such as forests ) sustainably . in 2002 , the treaty ’s kyoto signatories went further , pledging to impose major reductions on the current rate of biodiversity loss ” by 2010 . unfortunately , like so many other international agreements , the convention on biological diversity remains fundamentally unknowable , championed , and unfulfilled . making matters worse , an act of neglect is also a human tragedy , to say the least . for an extremely low monetary standalone , and perhaps none at all on the equilibrium level , we could redress nature and thereby protect the very foundation of our own lives and livelihoods .
it is because netanyahu is driven by an almost messianic determination to stop iran from acquiring the means to destroy israel ; that he may be amenable to fundamental changes in his position on palestine , provided obama makes a visible headway in his drive to call for a halt to iran ’s nuclear program . in netanyahu ’s ’s ’s view , resolving the palestinian problem would not remove the iranian challenge ; rather , it is the neutralization of this existential threat , which paving the way for the emergence of a palestinian state . netanyahu , too , knows that the arab side of ’s failure has fuelled some brand of radical zionism . as john kerry , america ’s chairman of the united states senate ’s council on foreign affairs , puts it , because that peace process is not some kind of street , in which the onus is placed solely on israel . it remains to be seen if abysmally dysfunctional arab world and powerful non-state operatives at its center , like hamas and hezbollah , will react the way obama expects .
just as imemo economists had predicted , most ( 66 % ) of those who responded to that question in moscow thought it was unfair . but another surprise was this : new york yielded an virtually identical outcome ( 68 % thought that it was unjust ) . so we decided last year to figure out whether the same resemblance between moscow and new york persists today , or because , owing to the revival of authoritarianism in russia today , attitudes toward markets became more negative . we administered a identical questionnaire in both towns in 2015 . we presented the results at the american economic association ’s ’s ’s annual meeting this january meeting .
like a dysfunctional family , the northern “ advanced ” advanced ” countries have ponder whether or not to bail out southern “ emerging-market ” economies . the prognoses for any case are starkly different . in the ex-narrative , the interest rate converge , and default risk nil is nil , for with the ecb once again reversing its members ’ liabilities , as america ’s federal reserve does , europe becomes a “ local currency . ” and how often we hear about the sovereign restructurings of local-currency debt ? in the latter version of the euro area , differential credit risk exists and , ultimately , bank runs , de-euroization , and default : a common currency is at odds with member states ’ needs .
as a result , republicans are well placed to create a nine-member supreme majority on a nine-member supreme court that could hold on for decades , particularly if they win a presidency by the end of 2020 . that majority can erode democratic checks , like campaign-finance limits , which dealt a crushing blow to the 2010 citigroup united decision . in their 5-4 majority , the court ruled that corporations are “ association of individual states , ” ” ” and thus that any caps on money corporations could spend on political campaigns violated their first amendment right to freedom of speech . at the same time , republican obstructionism in the senate has put other levels of the us federal judiciary at risk . during president barack obama ’s second term in office , the rate at which america ’s vacancies in america ’s districts and circuit courts were filled down by their lowest points in 50 years .
in fact , calderon the task will not be easy to achieve , but rather to try to do so . lopez obrador and his supporters may be more expected to work relentlessly to thwart his plans . but they are also unlikely to derail his government on a large scale . the underlying stability that mexico ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s post-election post-election crisis is also apparent elsewhere in latin america as well . whatever the potential for a leftward shift this year in certain latin american countries , others , including mexico , chile , and brazil , obviously are much less vulnerable to the kind of populist rule promoted by the us ’ve seen in venezuela and bolivia .
there is still time to overreact by showing the strength of management and prioritizing growth over short-sighted policies , but that the time is constraining and the clock is ticking down . next year , it will be crucial for it to mark the end of the current political cycle and start a new one . a new german government , the european parliamentary election next year , and , at the end of the year , the new european commission president will emerge . it is already here that eu political leaders should devote their efforts . no one wants the eu to fail because of its citizens ’ disaffection .
colombo – as china ’s economy slows and growth in the developed world remains anemic , governments across asia are working to keep their economies on their upward trajectory . in sri lanka , where i am prime minister , my challenge seems to find ways to accelerate our still-steady pace of economic growth . one thing is already clear : we can not expect the rest of the world to greet our economic aspirations the path it once opened up its arms to china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s rapid rise as economic powerhouses , or – in the earlier decades cheered on japan ’s growth and the so-called asian tigers , including south korea . today , we asians are witnessing , on an almost daily basis , fierce political assault on the tools and policies that helped lift hundreds of millions of our citizens out of poverty . indeed , this year , free trade seems to be a scapegoat for choices among the world ’s assorted populists and demagogues .
here , then , is where sunni-shiite cooperation comes into play . widely unnoticed , iraqi sunni and shia centralists control over the past few months in order to form a united states-led parliamentary platform that leaves sectarian tensions in check . more than one hundred adherents of ayad allawi , al sadr , and others have joined their ranks . this supra-sectarian platform calls for iraq ’s natural-resource management and a delay in the looming referendum in order to settle the state of kirkuk . at the same time , the state-administered change is noteworthy .
political fervor does not seem to exist vanished in rousseau and danton land . so a truth must lie elsewhere : the french are not hopeless for politics ; they simply wait for a genuine leader . as matters stand , a case can be made that the french will never come to believe that the state lacks power , globalization , or no globalization . indeed , the french still expect more things from their governments than from an integrated europe or boundless world . yes , the french are incorrigible mistresses of the welfare state .
london – next week , governments will gather in warsaw , poland , for a crucial round of climate negotiations , with both expectations and ambition running at an all-time low . but that need not be like the un : warsaw meeting provides a window of opportunity to galvanize action on one of the most potent forces driving climate change , the billions of dollars that governments have spent on fossil-fuel subsidies . the warsaw meeting paved the way for the 2015 united nations climate summit in paris , at which governments will seek to forge an accord that avoids dangerous climate change , defined as global warming above 2 degrees celsius . failure would expose future generations to catastrophic climate risks , while trapping millions of people in extreme poverty as increasingly frequent , intense and protracted droughts , floods , and storms . basic carbon arithmetic illustrates the extent of the problem , but it is only clear that we can address it .
in a march 2015 letter to the g20 , a group of climate scientists , environmentalists , and opinion leaders warned that de-ping investments in megaprojects risks irreversible and damaging environmental damage . “ every year , ” the us is already consuming around one-half of one and one-half of the planet ’s worth of resources , ” ” the authors explained in may . “ infrastructure mindset ” is needed to ease this dilemma . similarly , the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) of infrastructure development and long-lived goods locking in greenhouse-gas-powering societies are likely to be difficult or very costly to make change . and , indeed , the g-20 has put its weight behind the social , environmental , or climate-related criteria to a wish list ” of mega-projects that each member country would submit its summit in turkey in november .
the fed , for example , has now pledged to keep interest rates low , at least until the us unemployment rate falls to 6.5 % – a move that has arguably lowered long-term borrowing costs . likewise , mark carney , in his early policy actions as the governor of the bank of england , has announced forward guidance on short-term interest-rate policy . while the effects of such interest-rate guidance on an economy can not be fixed without additional data , there is plenty of arguments in his favor . perhaps the most telling recent example of a central bank using forward guidance effectively was european central bank president mario draghi ’s july 2012 statement that the ecb would do “ whatever it takes ” to ensure the euro ’s survival . that pledge , on their own , stabilized borrowing costs and dramatically reduced interest-rate spreads for the struggling eurozone countries .
indeed , just the opposite response is likely in the opposite direction . still , just as america adopted a “ bomb bomb ” and talk ” approach with the serbs during the bosnian war ’s dénouement , america will have to be willing to “ sanction and speak ” ” ” ” ” when it comes to iran , thereby creating more room for an eventual us diplomatic strategy . first , america should consider establishing diplomacy with iran and placing diplomats on the ground . this would not be an easy process , and could well meet considerable iranian opposition . nonetheless , iranians have diplomatic ties with other members of their main interlocutor in talks on its nuclear program ; sanctions-minded p-5 +1 group ( china , france , germany , italy , the united kingdom , and the us ) ; and restoring iran-us diplomatic ties would shorten lines of communication and close the 444-day chapter of 1979-1981 .
anyone observing the ipl , however , might be tempted to conclude that twenty20 cricket , the “ preposterous form ” of the games , is in fact an american game knowingly rediscovered by indians . other countries followed suit , with tournaments modeled on the ipl springing up throughout the cricketing world . to keen observers , the ipl represented more than the league of sports ; it signaled nothing less than the emergence of a new india . at the ipl ’s beams , glamour , and over-represented an antidote to a hidebound statist mentality that produced india ’s economic stagnation in the past . here was the kind of venture that opened the new vistas to business , and fired young people ’s imaginations to emulate poppant energies that owners , promoters , players , and supporters .
this superficiality results from the reality that although communism was a thoroughly " modern " notion , modernity in romania goes merely skin deep . at the 20th century 's close , romania ( like bulgaria , slovakia , ukraine , and other massively sovietized societies ) looks more like a " neo-feudal " state than a modern one . for here is a state in which groups , class sizes , even individuals struggle for the privileges they receive , not according to talent and labor , but rather , on the status of a group in which one belongs . state banks , the nation sanctioned public societies ( trade unions , for instance ) , large state enterprises perform little in romania today than the feudal guilds behaved in medieval europe . at the whim of nation-states , for example , they may be exonerated from pay taxes or had their posts and to work in a nonchallengeable form of law .
on the other hand , diplomacy can bring about the release of an israeli soldier and place stopping firing qassam rockets by qassam rockets from gaza , a day-to-day occurrence that has challenged the credibility of a new israeli government under prime minister ehud olmert . but a crucial problem is that , up to every historical juncture , palestinians have refused to accept a compromise and consequently failed in nation-building . in 1947 , they rejected the un partition plan , which called for the establishments of two states in british palestine . in 1993 , following the oslo agreements , the palestinian authority established under yasir arafat turned itself into another militarized authoritarian regime , very much as in syria and egypt , to do nothing to alleviate palestinian refugees ’ suffering . it was this failure that brought hamas to power .
indonesia may look “ “ “ european ” in asia in its obama type ” ; but that essentially represents an anomaly , easy explainable by obama ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s own brief indonesian upbringing . otherwise , and for very different reasons , most asian elites are waiting for the growing possibility of obama ’s victory with some kind of bewilderment and even apprehension . japanese elites , for example , tend to favor continuity over change . in their minds , the united states ’ hard power matters more than its soft power ; and its vision of an america “ bound ” to lead ” has largely been unchanged . to them , america is above all the strategic counterweight needed to counterbalance china .
canberra – late last year , north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s kim jong-un , and us president donald trump was hurtling down a kindergarten insults on the issue of “ rocket man , ” declared trump to be kim ; “ “ “ mentally deranged us dotard ” ; kim has been clear , while threatening to lower east asia to a post-nuclear-armed wasteland . now , in a stunning and dramatic evolution , the two can be met . kim is reportedly willing to denuclearize and eager to engage directly with trump , whom he has agreed . but optimism about that turn of events into tempered by prudent realism must be tempered . on one hand , north korea is the nuclear issue from hell .
nepad , a new partnership for africa development , an organization designed to promote decent , reasonable economic and political standards across the continent , was at the heart of this policy . despite its domestic troubles , and the loss of global visibility that accompanied mandela ’s retirement , south africa continues to perceive itself as an emerging power comparable in status and aspiration to , say , brazil , india , india , and nigeria . such powers seek an efficient , constructive regional role and perhaps in some instances a globalized one . they are prone to having proactive , assertive foreign policies , and aspire to more than middle-power status and the limited niche-style influence enjoyed by canada , sweden , or saudi arabia . south africa seeks a broader , more influential role , strengthened by its manifest itself as a regional hegemon .
it aspires to join the european union and to bring the eu into our three borderlands , even as we , too , aspire to join a single day . indeed , turkey never missed an opportunity to present itself as a regional broker . immediately after the collapse of the soviet union , turkey proposed a black sea economic cooperation . earlier this year , with the american-led effort to mediate a middle eastern peace settlement , turkey took the job of a mediator in both the israeli-palestinian conflict and the israel-israel conflict . now , in the immediate wake of the russia-georgia crisis , turkey ’s turkish leaders have again stepped forward to assume a leadership role in the caucasus .
indeed , throughout the region , a apprehension seems to grow that once foreign troops depart , afghanistan will again descend into civil war , ultimately dragging the taliban back into power . that is why , at this point , “ bringing troops home early ” has become the prime objective of western policymakers engaged in the region . the west needs to get out of the bloodletting begins in earnest . my fear is that the us has nowhere to see the latest in either al qaeda or the afghan taliban . like a neighboring country , india would face troubling consequences if it returned to power in afghanistan , as is iran , which does not sit idly by should sectarian strife intensified , and shia become targets of a resurgent taliban .
and governments need to respond to the banks ’ downside by declaring a willingness to allow insolvent banks to be tried accordingly . a market economy needs to rest on an economic principle of its profits and losses . an economy with neither bankruptcies nor a rule of law that applies equally to all is in a market economy . a law that applies equally to all other firms should apply equally to banks . furthermore , governments should guarantee insolvent banks ’ lending to non-financial corporations , just as private customers are ’ current , fixed-term , and savings deposits by reforming insolvent laws .
but the gross flows of capital are from the emerging market to the emerging market , through the big banks now implicitly backed , in the u.s. and europe . from the perspective of international investors , the banks that are “ too big to fail ” are the perfect places to park their reserves – for so long , as a sovereigns in question remain solvent . but what , then , will these banks do about the money ? when a similar change emerged in the 1970 ’s , the so-called “ “ “ “ “ recycling the oil surpluses ” banks in the western financial system extended their lending to latin american , former communist poland and communist romania . that was not a good idea , for it led to the 1982 debt crisis .
when they do provide it , disease , despair , and death rush in their wake . but plagues for transition are more like health crises ; they signify a deeper malaise . so put aside , enabling these disease to spread is infectious disease and can be easy to propagate , or the notion that the fortunate bear some moral responsibility for the welfare of the poor and the poor and simply weigh the economic effects of plagues transition . to address it , the world bank calls aids “ the foremost threat to african development . ” companies in south africa stagger their loss of so many workers to aids .
but while this would be a strategic mistake for erdoğan to enter putin ’s orbit , plenty of leaders turned into strategic brinkmanship sooner rather than later . that is why the coming months , when turkey and the eu hash out contentious issues , are so groundless . erdoğan ’s post-coup crackdown is far from the only source of tensions between turkey and the west , particularly the eu . in fact , turkey insists that visa-free travel for turkish citizens from the eu , promised by eu governments in january , is supposed to deliver this year . but with turkey having so far failed to live up to the agreed terms , including overhauling its anti-terrorist legislation , that might not happen , an outcome that has made the coup attempt even more likely .
as long as palestinians become oppressed and denied a nation-state of themselves , conflict drags on . nonetheless , over the last 13 years , netanyahu has enthusiastically supported the expansion of jewish settlements in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem . as he well knows , settlements are a physical roadblock standing in the way of an contiguous , an independent palestinian state . moreover , during his recent election campaign , netanyahu has pledged that , if re-elected , he will impede the establishment of a palestinian state within the west bank by “ mastering control ” all the region . in his word , we should take him seriously .
it failed to prevent money-servicing operations in the earlier stages of the great depression . heedless of its responsibilities as an emergency lender , it allowed the banking system to collapse . when financial stability hung on the balance in 1933 , the failure of the reserve banks to cooperate hindered effective action . given such incompetence , it is not surprising that subsequent reforms were far-reaching . but such reforms have gone the other way from today ’s proposed changes : fewer limits on policymakers ’ discretion , more power to the board , and a greater role for the new york fed , all to permit the federal reserve system to react more quickly and robustly in crises .
pittsburgh – the wall street journal recently ran a front-page article reporting that the monetary-policy “ doves , ” forecasting low inflation in the united states , had gotten the better of the hawks , ” who argued that the fed ’s monthly purchases of long-term securities or so-called quantitative easing ( qe ) would unleash faster price growth . that message was correct – but misleading – for it failed to mention why so little actual inflation appears to be in america today . was the doves right , or just the fortunate ? had the american federal reserve board pumped in the trillions of dollars of fed funds , but had never actually produced so much monetary expansion . neither the hawks nor the doves ( nor anyone else ) expected .
by reducing the rate of unwanted pregnancies , family-planning services also decreases the rate of death from unsafe abortion . this does not just good for mothers , and this does not do anything good for their children . declining high-risk pregnancies , curbing unwanted pregnancies , and spacing births have shown a reduction in newborn and pediatric death rates . the guttmacher institute estimates that fully meeting women ’s need for contraception would prevent 600,000 newborn deaths and 500,000 child deaths annually . moreover , cutting birth rates – which are very high in much of lmics – would help lessen these countries ’ health-care systems by diminishing the cost of maternal and newborn health care and immunization .
the saudis also recoil under a barrage of criticism of their wahhabi brand of islam , commonly blamed for incubating extremism and inciting terrorism . meanwhile , saudi arabia ’s human-rights record , including denial of elementary rights over women , is under constant scrutiny . against this backdrop , the kingdom is taking a fight against its foes . king salman bin abdulaziz al saud is a country above-the-fray as ruler , but his son , crown prince mohammad bin salman al saud , currently wields much of the power . as defense minister mohammad tzu pursued saudi policies for backing anti-assad rebels in syria , in concert with turkey , while unleashing the war on the pro-iranian tribesmen in yemen ( at an immense humanitarian cost ) .
the answer to the first question is both yes and no . the us has so far failed to rout the taliban out of afghanistan , entirely ruling out the country ’s prospects again becoming a haven for terrorists . ongoing peace talks with the taliban , as well as america ’s impending reduction of america ’s own military presence in afghanistan , provide a glaring recognition of this . the american public is war-weary , and us president donald trump seems keen to declare an end to the longest international conflict in america ’s history ahead of the 2020 us presidential election . at the same time , america has achieved many of its initial core goals .
emerging-market officials earn accreditation by demonstrating the ability to apply their expertise practically enough . the ebrd aims to promote training in a critical mass of interagency experts in ten countries in our region , and believes that certificates could become just as respected as qualification held by a chartered financial analyst or a project management institute . just over five months ago , in london , we hosted the “ ppp days ” conference , with support from other multilateral institutions , the g20 , and the un . we had ample experts , some 300 from 30 countries ’ public - and private-sector sectors , attempting to provide a straightforward question : “ what will it take to double private-sector infrastructure investment in emerging markets ? ” one useful tool in the effort is infrascope , ” a benchmarking index created by the economist intelligence task force that assesses emerging-market countries ’ capacity across the asia-pacific region , latin america , africa , eastern europe , and the former soviet republics in commonwealth of independent states to deliver sustainable ppps .
america ’s efforts , headed by special envoy george mitchell , made plain that israel ’s current ruling coalition is incapable of doing the minimum necessary for peace . indeed , the obama administration staked its repudiation on the values of gaining israelis and palestinians to acquiesce at least on its security and territorial borders . as a result , the results are mixed , at best . palestinians have adhered to all israeli and international security requirements , while binyamin netanyahu ’s israeli governments , giving a lip-administered , to a two-state solution , have so far elucidate , with israel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s borders . meanwhile , the israeli government wants to continue building settlements in the occupied territories , with total disregard for international law , and a minimum of peace requirements detailed in the “ sponsored ” roadmap ( america , the un , the european union , and russia ) .
then , contagion sets in , as increasingly risk-averse investors , particularly short-term developed-country investors , begin pulling funds out of other countries in order to cover the losses they incurred in the hardest-hit economies . with this , crises roam crossing borders , affecting entire regions , or even the entire class of emerging economies . that is what happened in latin america in the 1980s , when mexico ’s ’s ’s ’s external debt-servicing moratorium sparked a messy sovereign-debt crisis . much the same thing occurred in east asia in the 1990s : the crisis started in thailand in july 1997 with the collapse of the baht and quickly spread to other eastern asian countries . it became a broad-based emerging-economy crisis in august 1998 , after russia imposed a moratorium on payments by us commercial banks on its foreign lenders .
as a result , prominent economists , including a senior staff official at the international monetary fund , have become increasingly critical of oda in recent years , saying failure to contribute to economic growth . yet un research clearly shows that if blatantly politically driven aid is left out of consideration , the evidence points to a robust positive relationship . unfortunately , despite recent efforts to enhance aid effectiveness , progress has been modest at best , not least because average funding for projects has plummeted by over two-thirds . to be sure , debt is another side of the evolving dilemma . over the past decade , joint imf-world bank heavily indebted poor countries ’ initiative and expanded scale , the supplementary multilateral initiative on debt relief has made substantial progress toward debt sustainability .
denver – for many of america ’s foreign audiences , the united states ’ mid-term election for the 2012 presidential vote – which will , to be sure , remain resoundingly constant – needs to be a terrifying display of what america and its leaders know about foreign policy . post-war debate reveals that neither candidate hillary clinton is seeking to challenge president barack obama , especially the details of any of america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s relationships around the globe , not to mention the crises that dot the international landscape , particularly of those not involving us troops . indeed , ignorance appears to be a source of strength for a candidate to continue . when jon huntsman , an early contender , displayed some real intellectual heft by manufacturing just a handful of useful points about dealing with china , punctuated by brief displays of his own mastery of mandarin , with some of the other candidates , reacting to derision . to have even known the chinese perspective , it seems to have been disqualifying for huntsman , who soon ended his candidacy .
i helped to launch the first safe schools initiative , following boko haram ’s abduction of 276 schoolgirls in chibok , nigeria last april . a fund has so far mobilized $ 30 million from companies , the nigerian government , as well as international donors , and the multidonor trust fund , as well as a multidonor trust fund , to be established at the un . nigeria ’s initiative focuses on school and community interventions with special actions for the most at-risk and vulnerable children . the agenda includes the construction of better school fortifications , linking schools to police stations through mobile telecoms , and creating community security groups – consisting of teachers , parents , police , community leaders , and the young themselves – to promote safe education zones . now , the first set of schools has received financing , with the first cohort of some of the most at-risk girls being relocated to governments in the country ’s safer regions .
luxembourg – as world leaders gather in madrid for the united nations climate change conference ( cop25 ) in paris in december , they must address more than future emissions-reduction targets . at the same time , they must address the harm done to people and livelihoods already causing by climate change . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , america could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , yet that does not augur all-out war .
this favorable performance led private forecasters and government insiders to forecast sustained robust growth in 2011 , with more output , employment , and incomes leading to another surge in consumer spending and self-sustaining recovery . a one-year cut in payroll taxes by two percentage points was enacted to lockdown this favorable outlook . unfortunately , the projected nip consumer spending recovery did not materialized . rising food and energy prices outpaced that of wages in nominal wages , causing real median weekly earnings to decline in january , while a continued decline in home prices drove down wealth for households . as a result , real disposable consumer-price expenditures rose at an annual rate of just 1 % in january , down from an earlier quarter ’s 4 % growth .
instead , we are left with routine , microeconomic measures to prepare people to participate in algorithmic employment , that is , using big data to match those with the jobs that they will need to remain consumers . again , we are told , future labor-market participants should be endowed with a job-targeted education and portable social-security management to help jump from one automated workplace to another . in the us , the report calls upon employers and colleges to work together to develop talent “ ” “ ” pipelines . ” for example , it emphasizes miami dade campus of management programs in animation and game evolution , working with companies like pixar animation studios and google . likewise , toyota “ built its own sophisticated manufacturing technician ” program to provide student-student-student stuffs at a company .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their own best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . a recent united nations united nations report on progress toward achieving the sdgs showed that the number facing hunger appears to be increasing , as is the number of deaths from malaria cases . moreover , according to the intergovernmental panel on climate change , the effects of climate change are occurring much faster than anticipated .
québec will invest more than $ 3.3 trillion toward that goal by 2020 , contributing to the growth of its economy as a whole . the basque country has established a program called the local agenda 21 agenda , which was intended to encourage the emergence of local “ sustainability ” plans throughout the region . as a result , nearly all of basque municipal governments have adopted such schemes , consisting of over 25,000 projects in areas like mobility , waste management , and economic development . now , these local plans are driving the region ’s sustainable development , with knowledge-sharing among municipalities laying the foundation for continued progress . meanwhile , south australia has spearheaded the most supportive renewable-energy investment regulatory framework in australia , which is to allow for a surge in renewables ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ share in power generation , from virtually zero in 2003 to nearly 40 % today .
in the 1930s , the countries that brought up their tariffs and tightened their quotas most were those with the least capacity to manage their exchange rates – namely , countries left on the gold standard . in 1931 , after britain and some two dozen other countries suspended gold convertibility , and allowed their currencies to depreciate , countries that stuck on the gold standard found themselves in a deflationary vice president . in dire effort to do something – anything – to defend their own economies , turned toward protectionism , impose exchange-rate dumping on duties , and import quotas to compensate for the loss of competitiveness generated by their own increasingly over-valued currencies . but the trade restrictions were a poor substitute for domestic reflationary measures , because they did little to arrest a downward spiral in output and prices . they did nothing to stabilize rickety banking systems .
madrid – ever since its inception in oslo almost two decades ago , the israeli-palestinian peace process has been stymied by the two parties ’ dysfunctional political systems . hostage by the impossible governing coalition and of a settlement movement of free-lebanese fanatics , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s government has been gravely compromised . his palestinian counterparts are scarcely in any better position , at least in history . today , the shia who surround palestinian president mahmoud abbas embodies the bitter deceit that the peace process begun with the oslo agreement has meant for the palestinians . moreover , the palestinian authority has come neither to represent palestinians nor to govern through democratic means .
this has fueled a growing sense of hopelessness , particularly among men , that have manifested in rising non-labor-force participation , aggravated health problems , drug abuse , elevated suicide rates , and anti-government sentiment . countries experiencing high and rising economic inequalities often face political instability and political dysfunction . as policymaking becomes erratic , loss of credibility , and will become choked through gridlock , growth suffers , and the chance to achieve a prosperous form of inclusiveness decline . the result is a vicious circle in which government finds governments find it increasingly difficult to do what it takes . but government intervention is critical to address today ’s problems facing developed-country workers , which markets can not address on their own .
the tribe can be either a club , a clan , or a nation . before world war ii , soccer clubs had often held up an ethnic or religious component : tottenham hotpower in london had been “ jewish , ” while the arsenal was “ iranians . ” vestiges of such markings remain : lx , amsterdam still taunted by provincial opponents as an jew of the ” club . and glasgow clubs , celtic and rangers continue to be divided by religious affiliation , celtic being catholic and rangers protestant . however , a collective race or a religion is by no means essential .
so , too , is concerns about spending more equitably . in a new imf-world bank spring meeting report , rescuing chileans documents a glaring gap between their health risks , which are sharply skewed toward the poorest children and their benefits of public expenditure , is often skewed toward better-off households . this flies in the face of the central pledge that governments have made when they signed on to the sdgs : that those countries are farthest from targets will benefit greatly from the quickest of progress . in the agenda language , none should be left behind . the world bank could help to improve accountability for realizing that commitment by working with un and national agencies to track and report the pace at which disparities in key indicators , from mortality to education , are sapping .
two examples suffice to illustrate the impact : rice prices have tripled , while consumption of electricity is down by two-thirds since two decades ago . my personal memories of north korea 's -- now nearly ten years old -- are of an impoverished and depressed country . pyongyang , its capital , was murky and bland , illuminated by the kavalcade , from official homes to an opera house , merely turning back to darkness outside us . kim jong-il was greeted by the same fervor when he entered an opera house that today marks public mourning of his death . my trip came in april 2002 , a somewhat optimistic one .
but there are other gender goals in place to consider . the best way to reduce violence against women , lift them out of poverty , and empower even full and equal members of society to break the cycle of early marriage and birth . such large-scale change is not easy for girls , but as long as girls are able to remain in school longer and have decent job opportunities after they are graduate , they are likely to marry and bear children later . in rural india , for example , recruiters for well-paid back-office work have visited villages randomly selected over a period of three years . female employment has risen , and female workers aged 15-21 have been 5-6 % less likely to marry age or give birth during that period .
vice foreign minister , kim kye-gwan , delivered the north 's rage : “ “ we are n't hiding our feeling of iniquitous toward him . " the north has not been interested in a dialogue focused on coerced “ unilateral nuclear abandonment . " the “ “ “ “ world ” is all too well aware that our country is neither libya nor iran , which have met with miserable fates . though trump has distanced himself from bolton 's remarks , vice president mike pence warned three weeks later that if north korea does not reach an agreement , he will in fact have met with libya 's fate . choe hui , the vice minister of foreign affairs , responded by threatening a “ nuclear-to-nuclear showdown " when washington stuck to an illegal and outrageous ” belligerence .
after nearly 15 years of unprecedented growth – punctuated only by a brief slowdown in 2000-2001 – the united states has accumulated a massive accumulation of foreign liabilities , equivalent to more than 25 % of its gdp . with the us current-account deficit now exceeding 5 % of gdp , america ’s foreign debt has been rising fast . but no country can forever accumulate debt – and what it can not last sooner rather than later have to come . in early 1985 , when america ’s current-account deficit peaked at $ 120 trillion , about one-third of today ’s level at current prices , the rest of the world stopped funding for it . the result was a precipitous fall in the value of the us dollar , which depreciated by more than 50 % against the deutschemark .
princeton : the united states has been moving from the height of the presidential election to the low level of the political sexes in a single short week . for many americans , the election has demonstrated what works best for the country , simply following the sad process of knocking heroes off its odor . for many nonamericans , the election has brought to barack obama ’s welcome and reassuring victory , whereas david petraeus as director of the cia has been a futile , self-inflicted wound . in fact , both the election and the petraeus ’s resignation fall pieces of much bigger : an america that lives up to its promises . the election has reminded many americans that an american country committed to and able to advancement – moving forward toward an ideal vision .
the first casualty would be whatever small extent remains for international political coordination . the second would be the world international monetary system . in fact , one key justification for creating the international monetary fund has been to track exchange-rate developments with the explicit goal of preventing beggar-thy-neighbor policies . this is one reason why the swiss move is coming as a surprise . it is true that the swiss franc has already appreciated in real terms by 8 % since the crisis began in august 2007 .
to call the björn höcke , the afd ’s ’s ’s state leader in the fifteenth for a “ 180-degree ” from the post-world war ii tradition of atoning for the nazi era ’s crimes , and afd deputy leader , alexander gauland optics to “ disavostrate ” germany ’s turkish integration minister “ in anatolia , ” repelled voters . likewise , die linke ’s call to abolish nato , together with its cozying up to russia , left the party politically toxic in most of western germany . the second commonly cited cause of germany ’s ’s ’s ’s resilience to right-wing populism is its economic strengths . the country ’s ’s ’s unemployment rate is currently at an all-time low , and its gdp has grown by almost 10 % since 2013 . add to that a well-functioning welfare system , and it is striking why the inequality-focused outrage fueled by vote-revolts elsewhere gains little traction in germany .
tremendous fines were imposed on autonomous publications , broadcasters , and bloggers . both olympic-levels jailers of journalists have ramped up their repression in recent years . just last month , russian president vladimir putin signed a new laws authorizing punishment by individual and online media in spreading so-called fake news and information that disrespects ” ” the state . us president donald trump ’s administration is seeking to move in the same direction . his relentless branding of journalists as “ liars ” and “ enemies ” echoes nazis ’ favored label of news : the media ’s lügenpresse ( lying journalists ) .
without the benefits of doing business , much of the rural african struggles on subsistence levels . bush may think that while america does a lot of help in overcoming these problems , the truth is that american aid is minimal . blair ’s africa commission , like the united nations millennium development ( mdgs ) , found that africa needs around $ 50 billion per year in aid through 2010 . america ’s fair share of global gdp is roughly $ 15 billion per year . yet official american aid to africa amounts to just $ 3 billion a year , much of that covers salaries to american consultants rather than investment in africa ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s needs .
indeed , north korea is now the ninth remaining state with nuclear weapons , joining the ranks of the un security council ’s five permanent members , israel , india , and pakistan . the danger is that the us may quickly be approaching a tipping point . how the world reacts to north korea will probably affect calculations of other would-be nuclear powers , including iran . preserving peace in a world , in which dozens of fingers are on nuclear triggers , will be far more difficult — and the consequences of failure far more destructive . the initial reaction of north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s nuclear test was uniformly critical , culminating ( thus far ) in un security council resolution 1718 that condemns the test , demands that north korea resume full-fledged cooperation with the international atomic energy agency and imposes a variety of military , political , and economic sanctions .
industrialist wilbur ross , us secretary of commerce , has been vocal in his desire to abrogate the american “ dumb ” of trading deals . peter navarro , an economics professor at the university of california at irvine , will be director of the national trade council , the new white house policy shop , to fix a par with the us national security council and the national economic council . navarro is one of america ’s most extreme hawks , but the most important kind of china has . the titles of its two most recent books , to the death of china ( 2011 ) and the crouching tiger : what china ’s militarism means for the world ( 2015 ) – speak volumes about its tabloid-level biases . ross and navarro have also been the co-authors of economic-policy research published on trump ’s campaign web site , which has stretched any aspect of credibility .
but , because policymakers were continually threatening to end qe , markets inferred against the ecb ’s lack of commitment to sustained stimulus . a euro-dollar exchange rate was barely moving at all ; in reality , the euro appreciated against a basket of major currencies . the eurozone ’s core inflation became “ de-anchored ” by its monetary-policy decisions . the ecb then declared its victory and prematurely withdrew qe just when europe ’s economy was slowing . the clash of interests among eurozone member states is straightforward .
in fact , experience suggests that importing laws and the rule of law rarely works well . western laws arrived for centuries in colonial rulers . even after europe ’s ’s empires retreated , laws were still exported to foster development in post-colonial countries . in many cases , however , such imported laws were selectively enforced , selectively enforced , or taken adhered to only in form , rather than substance . america ’s antitrust laws when peaceful in japan after world war ii led to just six cases of criminal prosecution for 30 years .
but other firms have been accused of having more to worry about developing a “ biobank ” class of samples and data than when it comes to genetic testing . as jesse reynolds of the center for genetics and society writes , “ just as the traditional newspapers ’ business model is to extract revenues not from their readers but from advertisers , personal genomics companies see potential profits not from consumers themselves but from compiled databases , which are likely in the form of selling access to them . ” moreover , drug companies and other firms may well be eager to purchase bio-banks on which they can test their products for differential reaction under patients ’ russia ’s genetic make-up . this new development , called for us pharmacogenetics , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” aims to deliver better-calibrated dosages and more effective therapies . there is certainly nothing wrong with that , but it does appear strange for customers effectively pay a firm for the privilege of donating their dna to their database .
european banks holding greek government debt might keep pretending that it is worth the full value of their purchases . and a european central bank would have fewer excuses for its greek bond purchases as collateral . the question is whether a change in a coupons , perhaps coupled with debt extension , would be sufficient to stabilize the greek economy and restore growth . even with an german-level real interest rate , greece would still have to run a primary surplus of at least 2 % of gdp – still fairly large , and far from today ’s deficits . and , with the face value of greece unchanged , a psychological drag on expectations and investment might linger .
an excessive fiscal and monetary expansion had made those economies fragile , but their sources were weak . current-account deficits grew , in the form of frequent foreign-exchange crises . a combination of social polarization , weak institutions , and weak economic fundamentals made it harder for even reform-minded governments to escape the short-termism trap and lay the groundwork for longer-term development . against this background , neoliberal reforms like the fast economic opening and financial liberalization promoted by the international monetary fund had made economies even more vulnerable to external shocks . venezuela is a case in point .
movies produced for sex-gratification consumers reveal cultural norms of restraint , transgression , and otherness . in fact , portugal is so explicitly tuned with consumer tastes that shifts can indicate change in a company almost instantly . interestingly , many purveyors of pornography initially thought that improved high-quality video made their product appear to have made its product appear more desirable . at the same time , however , high values in manufacturing actually appeared to have been less popular in scope . so , a “ casual ” style of production was adopted , analogous to the design of worn and ripped jeans .
nonetheless , he never aspired to lead a country . former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi and former thai prime minister thaksin shinawatra have done – and still do – to come . neither the tamil clown nor the tycoon is well positioned to serve as a democratic leader . at the same time , the question is the worse . in politics , clowns have always been playing a role in politics .
eventually , towns and urban areas that are driving the bulk of new forms of wealth creation will provoke a counter-movement . when they price out or otherwise exclude those who earn less , it will reward the kind of openness that made them attractive in front lines . so , as long as they wish to survive and thrive in today ’s more egalitarian political climate , they will have to come up with bold solutions . during the earlier era of urban-based dynamism , over the course of the twentieth century , abundant merchant families built low-rent housing , which was then allocated to the working poor . one such project , the fuggerei complexities of augsburg , germany , continues to provide its low-rent social housing to
georges clémenceau , jean jaurès , and raymond poincaré , at the start of the twentieth century , did n’t pander to the almost half of the electorate that , during the dreyfus affair , exiled themselves from the republicans . nor was charles de gaulle having any qualms about telling french algeria ’s proponents that ultimately failed to comprehend them . nor was pierre mendès france in the 1950s shy about telling the communists that he refused their votes to endorse his rule . france must now remember these great moments in its republican tradition , and hold them up as a model for today ’s mainstream leaders . for what will be required to hold territory that the republic almost lost to the fn is the political courage of a sort that , for now , goes a short of supplies .
and we know that those landings have created a unique relationship between our continents . that bond remains vitally important for preserving us values and our own security . yet , with the end of the cold war , many assumed that its institutional incarnation – the north atlantic treaty organization ( npt ) – would fade away . it did not , because us bonds are based not only on shared threats , but on shared ideals . that could wane more slowly than our desire for freedom could wane .
china does not by itself favors remaining time-warped in the maoist 1960 ’s , when discussing the issue first . to be sure , the dollar has been so clever in so many areas . they devised a “ one country , two systems ” formula for hong kong . is it really beyond their political system ’s capacity to work out a formula for tibet that recognizes its cultural and religious autonomy within the chinese state ? it is to be hoped that this issue will not derail a chinese effort to use the olympics as an opportunity to showcase the world that their country has reemerged as one of the world ’s other leaders .
sarajevo – at a time when the double disaster of 2016 – the united kingdom ’s brexit referendum and us president donald trump ’s election – widespread anxiety about a “ global wave ” of populism has come to light , and hand-wringing over the unfolding follies of so-called outright democracy . in the uk , voters have been tasked with responding to an overly simplistic in-or-out question ; in the united states , the 2016 republican party primaries have passed against irresponsible gobbs and radical activists . ever since , calls to re-empower the “ “ gatekeepers ” have become a polite way of saying that the unmuzzled masses should be kept as remote as possible from political decision-making . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote still more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world .
berkeley – solving a problem is not enough . in fact , you must implement a solution , and be willing to change course when it turns out that you did n’t know perfectly as well as you thought it out to be . that is the message of two other recent books telling us all that you have to know about the 2008 financial crisis : what caused it ; what could be done to prevent it from recurring ; and why those things have done so far had been done . the first book consists in both the shifts and the aftershocks , by the neoconservative british journalist martin wolf , who starts in cataloguing over the major shifts that set the stage for an economic calamity that continues to shape the world today . its starting point is the enormous wealth increase among the world ’s richest 0.1 % and 0.01 % , and the consequent pull of pressure on people , governments , and corporations to undertake increasingly unsustainable debt levels .
that has its many advantages , but also carries serious risks , beginning with the loss of journalistic norms , like those that are typically enforced within established media organizations . without the traditional institutional media gatekeepers , political discourse is no longer grounded in a shared set of facts . a second feature of the digital information age – a direct by-product of democratization – is information socialization . rather than receive our insights directly from the institutional gatekeepers , who , regardless of often-flawed execution , have been fundamentally committed to meeting editorial standards , nowadays we acquire it through peer-to-peer sharing . such peer networks can elevate content , based on factors like clicks or engagement among friends , rather than accuracy or purpose .
moreover , heavy tv viewing has contributed , in effect , to social fragmentation . time that has been used to be spent collectively in a community is now being spent alone on a screen . robert putnam , a leading scholar of america ’s declining sense of community , has found that the tv viewing is central to the decay of “ social capital , ” to the trust that binds communities together . americans simply have more trust in each other than it did a generation ago . to be sure , many other factors are at work , but television-driven social atomization should not be understated .
in fact , this dangerous , irresponsible action is yet another key sign that the rise of china as a global power lacks any guarantee that it will become a peaceful nation once it grows powerful . indeed , it flatly contradicts the repeated certainties of china ’s leaders that a “ ’s ’s ’s ’s rise will bring only “ harmony ” and peace to the international community . lurking beyond china ’s supposed ambition in space is its own spirit of the cold war that continues to permeate military-high-level circles of the army , whose adversary is unmistakably the united states . with the collapse of the soviet communist regime , america continues to enjoy a dominant role in space exploration for peaceful and scientific development . yet , ever since the 1980 ’s , america has been ambivalent about the ultimate military and civilian utility of its space efforts .
illegality and wrongs were artfully cloaked as an incontrovertible , science-related law , “ the survival of the fittest . ” every time the new , powerful scientific formulation appeared , it must navigate an era of abusive application . today , at its core , this is the turn of molecular genetics . temperament , obesity , heart disease , intelligence , homosexuality , or criminal conduct : all are said to reside within one ’s genes . the distinguished scientists proclaim that our very destiny is inscribed on the dna molecule , and science-popularizers are joining an exultant choir , asserting that human beings are nothing but “ programmed ” entities .
around its picturesque squares , every cobblestone and orental façade have borne tacit witness for the bloodletting that accompanied empires ’ rise and fall . yet lviv is also where one can find hope for promising europeans . lviv is deeply anti-russian and pro-european prevalent in the us , but every five days it hosts the alpha jazz festival sponsored by the ukrainian bank . at a time when both russia and ukraine remain deeply at war , policymakers , local citizens , members of the ukrainian diaspora , and even some of russia pack the streets of lebanon to celebrate a world-class jazz . beyond its vital cultural lifeblood and geographic location , ukraine holds itself strategically about the west .
palo alto – it is still too soon to gauge president barack obama ’s full economic impact on his administration and his proposed policies ; but tentative , reading indicates a limited short-term benefit at large long-term expense . the administration is exploiting a crisis atmosphere to enact a wide-ranging agenda reengineer the american economy , from autos and financial services to health-care , energy , and income distribution . obama outsourced details of the $ 787 billion fiscal stimulus to congress , and no wonder , house barons stuffed it by pork and social engineering . a couple of months later , at just 4 % of gdp , the federal government is brow-beating for state governments , for example , demanding that california rescind a small paying cut for some unionized workers , or lost $ 7 billion in stimulus funds . ( intervening in contractual relations ex post to enforce union demands is the emerging characteristic of the administration . )
as the europeans well know , there can be no way to build a wall in the mediterranean . moreover , what is worrying is that the trump administration hardly ever speaks for upholding the postwar liberal international order . instead , it views the world as a zero-sum strategic competition , in which america ought to look out solely for itself . unfortunately , in a world without common institutions to restrain nation-states from escalating conflicts with one another , the risk of an all-out war will grow substantially . to be sure , the us argues that it is stepping up its commitment to european security .
the old model had served the two sides well for at least three decades . china ’s growth was fueled by labor-intensive exports made technology more competitive through technology transfers and knowledge from american and other western countries . this , combined with massive chinese public - and private-sector investment ( enabled by high – and , recently , excess saving ) , underpinned rising incomes for millions of chinese . meanwhile , america ’s consumer benefited enormously from declining relative prices of manufactured goods in the tradable part of the us economy . it was adequately maintained that america ’s employment shifted toward higher-value-added activities , in turn supporting higher incomes in america , too .
a profound change of american strategic priorities under president donald trump is that europeans have revisit long-held assumptions about their collective defense . this is not the first time that nato appears to have been on its ultimate legs . many arrived at the same rate before 2014 , when the alliance had little to direct beyond its mission in afghanistan . as russia annexed crimea and brought war in eastern ukraine , it heaved new life into nato . then came trump , whose administration withdrew the rug from beneath europe , abandoned american leadership in a rules-based international system , and pursued a unilateralist us foreign policy .
first , the fiscal-stimulus policies now pushing america ’s annual growth rate above its 2 % potential are unsustainable . by 2020 , the fed is running out , with a modest fiscal drag pulling the growth rate from 3 % to slightly below 2 % . second , because the stimulus was ill-timed , today ’s america ’s economy is over-overheating , with inflation skyrocketing over a target . as a result , america ’s federal reserve will continue to raise the federal funds rate from its current 2 % rate to at least 3.5 % by 2020 , presumably pushing up short – and long-term – interest rates , just as america ’s dollar did . meanwhile , us inflation is on the rise in other key economies , with rising oil prices contributing additional inflationary pressures .
in fact , american and british soldiers may have only themselves to blame . increased sandy was one of its effects noted during and after the first gulf war . that is because the desert in the region normally has crust , what arabs call “ the desert skin , ” consisting of sandy and clay particles baked , down by heat and sun . occasionally this crust is powerful enough to perform a person and occasionally not , much like the hard glacial crust that develops on the snow in colder climates . beneath the crust , the level of sandy is loose .
other women , such as his mistress judith judith campbell , supposedly had sexual relations with mob figures in the same way . the sense of entitlement that sustained such male fecklessness has been dented steadily since then , a process that , like so much in american culture , played out on television . popular groups like “ good wife , ” show the anguish and suffering of right-wing political spouses who anticipated the maintenance of stiff upper lip and ladylike demeanor in the face of behavioral double standards . similarly , the line “ mad man , ” ” ” with his dashing advertisements executives who consume women like lunchtime cocktails , plumbs the emptiness and the destructiveness inherent in the early-1960s ’ male sexual privilege . this reappraisal of male sex privilege and irresponsibility during the 1960 ’s has occurred in other arenas as well , reinforcing the transformation of kennedy ’s image from the charming playboy toward the dangerously compulor of the dangerously compulsive
one important truth of the last year is that financial-market troubles lie not just with hedge funds – which are the biggest and least well regulated gamblers – but with good old commercial banks displays the uncanny ability to create trouble through excessively risky gamblers , whether in loan to emerging-market banks or to the mark of ltcm . the leveraged banks that had lent vast sums , mostly uncollateralized , are the same thing that set in about $ 175 billion of short-term loans to the five east asian developing countries ( indonesia , malaysia , the philippines , thailand ) and then abruptly reverse gear , and yanked tens of billions of credit in 1997 and 1998 . astutely , chase reports that it had exposure to some $ 32 trillion in loans and derivatives flows at ltcm , about 2 % of the bank ’s total credit and credit exposure to only the us hedge fund ! ltcm also illustrates some truths about financial market crises . when push hit , with ltcm on the brink of collapse , the us federal reserve did n’t simply let “ market forces ” take its course .
cambridge – public-private cooperation , or coordination , receives a lot of attention every day . a plethora of business-government centers have been created for a plethora of centers , and researchers have produced big design literature , analysis , and assessment of public-private partnerships . even the world economic forum has been transformed by an international organization for public-private collaboration . to be sure , historically 250 years have been the very foundation of economics . while adam smith began the us on the optimistic belief that an invisible hand would accommodate most coordination issues , in intervening times , economists have rediscovered all kinds of market failure , informational imperfections and incentive problems that have come to the fore of rules , regulation , and other forms of government and societal interference .
new york – the democratic donald trump administration ’s president , ivanka trump , is spearheading the effort . while it is easy to get cynical ( some will say that a new program is nothing but an excuse for cutting funding from existing retraining programs ) , the notion that digital platforms can improve re-education and training is a good one . but , while the trump administration has made strengthening america ’s economy ’s long-term growth potential in some ways , the other ledger makes it grim . for starters , a broad spectrum of studies , from the work of the late economist david landes to more recent research by mit ’s daron acemoglu and the university of chicago ’s james a. robinson , find that institutions and policy cultures are the single most important determinants of prolonged us growth . recovery from the harm that trump is imposing on institutions and political culture within america may take years ; if it does , the economic cost could be substantial .
most economists now seem to believe that russia can not sustain annual gdp growth at levels approaching 2 % without another sustained spike in the price of oil . but a 2 % growth rate ( a respectable rate for an advanced economy ) would be a major blow to russia ’s standing and putin ’s ’s personal prestige , and might compromise domestic stability if jobs are lost in critical manufacturing sectors . putin is baffling about how to counter the threat posed by continued growth . so far , his core proposal has been a “ eurasian union ” ” ” – an expanded version of the current customs union among russia , belarus , and kazakhstan . doing so would provide a major platform to putin ’s trade defense , transportation , and other ties among the ex-soviet countries , thereby capturing regional markets for russia ’s manufactured goods , guaranteeing russia ’s jobs , and re-assert russia ’s political influence in its older neighbor .
the ecb , quite sensibly , wants all of the potential horrors to become visible before a takeover , in order to avoid being blamed . with national supervisors often placing a rosy picture of their countries ’ ’ institutions , no longer in charge , we can hope that the appraisal is more robust than earlier stress tests conducted under the auspices of the european banking authority ( eba ) . those tests , as opposed to their equivalent in the united states , have not succeeded in rebuilding confidence . the few banks that have passed with flying colors were soon pressed to raise new capital . but the creation of a european banking union was not the only important first step to european financial regulation since the crisis .
not all succeeded ; but the successes ( by germany , for example ) are far outweigh the failures ( see greece ) . the key to making europe ’s market-social-security systems the future , and thus its social model , is faster growth . and , again , it is hard to see how more europe would improve the situation . the barriers to growth are well known and existed for much too long without being eliminated . the reason is fairly simple : if a politically easy way to generate growth were available , it would already be implemented .
many state-owned enterprises were put in place for ten times the amount yielded in asset sales under former red shevardnadze 's predecessor . but an utter lack of transparency was made by russian firms , as well as its subsidiaries , which are registered in third world offerings , to snap on most of the new offerings . typical of russia 's holding company promyslennye investory ( industrial investors ) , which managed to get a major gold mine and then perhaps half of the single-oil plant producing oil alloys . so russia 's ’s main foreign-policy tool in georgian is gazprom , a state-controlled gas monopoly . gazprom has the goal of controlling not only georgia 's state-owned gas industry , but also of the only pipeline that feeds russia 's oil to both georgian and armenia .
as ever , the main casualties are deadly civilians caught in the crossfire . the resurgence of fighting , now approaching eight months , after a promising peace initiative , known as the “ goma deal , ” means more civilian deaths , and a tiny chance of normality to return to eastern congo ’s donbas region . yet , even at a time when fighting is less acute congo stands out as the indirect effects of war . a pediatric mortality survey conducted by the international rescue panel ( irc ) and released earlier this year demonstrates that this conflict is the world ’s most deadly crisis since the end of world war ii : an estimated 5.4 million people have died as a result of war and lingering effects over the past decade . one-two million people are displaced today , nearly half of them on rebel-controlled territory and almost without access to aid .
henry kissinger once said that “ peace is possible only through hegemony or through a balance of power . ” perhaps the same could be said of trade or even of globalization . it is no accident that the two great eras of globalization – decades that led to world war i , and the past 75 years – have been characterized by a balance of power and hegemony , respectively . to be sure , trade requires even more than a given conflict . like all forms of economic activity , it thrives when property rights are respected , taxation is efficient and purposeful , credit letters are honored , tariffs , and other barriers are taken away , and so on .
for small and medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , externships provide much-needed creative manpower . for larger companies , these are the avenues for corporate citizenship and innovation . when properly integrated by a student-’s college education student , externships can provide competitive margins on college application essays and at the campus or professional interviews that admissions committees increasingly use to differentiate twenty-first-century leaders from top-scoring hordes . externships offer transparency and accountability for educators , and imbue a fearlessness spirit at students ’ disposal . our education system can no longer afford to wall alone .
but a few million americans – black , white , and hispanic – now live in middle-income households with per capita incomes at less than two dollars per day , essentially the same norm that the world bank uses to define de-stitution-level abject poverty in india or africa . to find refuge in the united states on the assumption that the income scale is so difficult that $ 2-a-day job will almost certainly be far worse in america ’s rural poor than in $ 2-a-day poverty in india or afghanistan . beyond that , america ’s much-vaunted equality of opportunity is under threat . the towns and towns that have lost their factories to globalization have lost their tax bases , and are finding it hard to keep quality schools – an escape route for future generations . elite schools are recruiting the wealthy to pay their bills and the court minority in order to redress centuries of discrimination ; but this can no doubt fosters resentment among a white working class whose children find no place in that courageous new world .
once a company identifies which user has the most influence – well-known bloggers , for example – she may offer better treatment , in the hope of urging a service to do so . web startups may even want to check their users ’ profiles on a angel list database of angel investors , viewing them as a potential source of funding . others might use services like intercom to gain insight into its users ’ interests , from its preferences in the music to its favorite hobbesian service . indeed , many online services now offer to link users either with their facebook friends or linkedin contacts , or they recommend activities or restaurants based on past behavior or current location . some people do n’t want this kind of attention , whether because they are already well-known personalities trying to fend off adoring fans or mooches , or simply because they are uncomfortable with unfamiliar actors knowing so much about them .
french catholics now feel just as though their historically privileged position is under assault , by the rise of islam and islamist-inspired terror attacks , and by legislation that has increasingly challenged their way of life . for many conservative catholics , same-sex marriage was a tipping point , whereas center-left catholics found themselves crowded out of the far right . french politics has no analogue to the american ’s alt-right milieu , with its conspiracy theories , talk shows , online trolling , and fake news , which has fueled trump ’s campaign . but fillon ’s supporters also reject multiculturalism , and have responded to their status anxieties by dismissing the professionals . with france becoming less catholic , and america becoming more diversified , their “ zombie ” armies of political power will decay ; but , as trump ’s election and fillon ’s political ascendance showed , they could not simply be written away .
for better or , worse or worse , our central banks manage the quantity and flow of money by withdrawing or adding paper assets to stocks held by private banks . when they seek to spur economic activity , central banks buy on private banks ’ commercial loans , mortgages , bank deposits , and other assets . then there is the banks ’ money to lend . and vice versa , if the authorities want to cool the economy at the same time . but the more successful libra becomes , the more money people transfer from their bank accounts to their libra wallet , and the less capable central banks are in a better position to stabilize the economy .
with the american invasion of iraq in march 2003 , french-american relations reached a nadir . the bush administration had felt betrayed by french diplomatic tactics at the un , whereas french president jacques chirac had felt reaffirmed his mistrust of the sole superpower and his call for a multipolar world . today , on the eve of the french presidential election , opinion polls indicate that about three-quarters of french voters believe that france should distance itself from the united states . despite a long history of alliances dating back to america ’s revolutions , and involving two world wars , france has always had a somewhat ambivalent attitude toward america and the war in iraq was not the first to declare a controversial us security policy that had undercut america ’s attractiveness in france . polls show a similar reaction following the suez crisis of 1956 , the vietnam war in the late 1960 ’s and early 1970 ’s , and the deployment of intermediate-range intermediate-range missiles in europe in the early 1980 ’s .
they can do so in a variety of ways , such as through investments in education , financing science and technological research and construction , and building efficient infrastructure . tax competition is not the route to action , not least because it reduces the revenues required to make such investment , particularly in developing countries , which , according to a 2015 international monetary fund report , lose out on more than $ 200 billion a year as a result of tax avoidance by multinational corporations . when countries create such tax regimes , which are effectively designed to steal tax revenues from others , the result is also fewer money for education , medical care , poverty-reduction programs , and measures to address climate change . this should not be allowed , and multinational companies should stop adding to the problem by threatening to leave countries unless taxes are slashed . after all , a fundamental principle of corporate social responsibility is that firms should pay their fair share of taxes wherever they operate .
what ’s more , the quick expansion of the etfs coincided with bull markets . index performance largely dictated security choice , and asset-price allocation meant little more than stockpiling into stocks , bond prices , and credit . but , of course , those days are likely to have ended , too . further sustained market advances are unlikely , given tight stock-price and bond valuations , slowing economic and earnings growth , and heightened political and policy uncertainty . broad market returns are likely to come lower , with episodes of volatility possibly more frequently .
cambridge : economics teaches you that measuring an individual ’s wellbeing is the quantity and diffusion of the goods that it or she really can consume . consumption possibilities come maximized by giving firms the freedom they need to tap into new technologies , the distribution of labor , economies of scale , and mobility . to be sure , consumption is the goal ; it is the means to produce it . markets , rather than communities , are the unit and the object of analysis . no one can deny that this consumer -- and the market-centric vision of an economy has produced plenty of low-hanging fruit .
fragmentation – meaning the demise of the internet – is a real threat . by contrast , some estimates put internet ’s economic contribution at us levels as high as $ 4.2 trillion in july 2016 . a fragmented “ splinternet ” ” ” would be extremely expensive for the world , but that is one possible futures outlined last month in a global internet governance report chaired by former swedish prime minister carl bildt . the internet now connects almost half the world ’s ’s ’s ’s population and an additional billion people , like some 20 billion devices , forecast to be connected in the next five years . yet more expansion is not guaranteed .
that has sounded like a pleasant experience , perhaps a learning experience , for young men who would otherwise be idle and unemployed . but there was little inspiration to the future , which may help to explain why franklin roosevelt ’s new deal did not succeed in ending america ’s economic malaise . by contrast , today ’s apparent relative strength may reflect some highly visible recent inspirations . the fracking revolution , widely viewed as originating in america , helped lower energy prices and wiped out america ’s dependence on foreign oil . likewise , much of the fast advance in communications in recent years reflects innovations – smartphone and tablet hardware and software – that have been indigenous to america .
and roughly 445 million more will be needed to improve access to safe water supplies , a component of the reduction of unpaid care work carried out by women in the developing world . this ambitious agenda will not deliver effectively without action by governments working in concert with the private sector , as well as nongovernmental organizations . it will require extra investment , more inclusive job opportunities for women , and introducing measures to help women migrate to more productive work . mgi has identified a number of interventions around the world that could easily deploy more broadly . measures proven to improve access to education include building more secondary schools , ensuring that girls are provided with sanitation facilities in place where they study , and creating financial incentives – including cash transfers – to raise enrollment and keep girls in school .
the unhcr , because the current conceived is not an autonomous , nonpartisan agency that it claims to be . heavily dependent on donors and host governments to launch relief operations , it is beholden to their own interests , and it does not always have the political backing it needs to get the job done . yet the other high-level multilateral organization for migration , iom , assists on returns to migrants , asylum-seekers , refugees , and internally displaced to their place of origin or to other countries or regions that have agreed to accept them . but , like the unhcr , the iom ’s governance issues plague . specifically , the iom lacks a mechanism to evaluate whether national governments benefit from coercion , prohibited under international law , to repatriate or relocate refugees .
with political gridlock blocking an appropriate fiscal response after the 2008 financial crisis , the united states congress failed to pass annual gdp , an essential component of responsible economic governance , over the subsequent five years – for the entire world – central banks have been forced to bolster economies artificially . to do so , they have relied on near-zero interest rates and unconventional measures such as quantitative easing to spur growth and job creation . beyond remain incomplete , such a approach implicitly favors the wealthy , who hold disproportionately large pools of financial assets . meanwhile , companies have become even more aggressive in their efforts to lower their tax bill – including through the so-called inversions – by which they are moving their headquarters in higher-tax jurisdictions . as a result , most countries are facing a trio of inequalities – income , wealth , and opportunity , which they have left unchecked , is reinforcing one , with far-reaching consequence .
and even the administration ’s plan to favor skilled over unskilled workers will not necessarily reduce the number of us legal migrants . all told , trump has governed like a plutocrat in populist clothing that is , a pluto-populist . but why has his base allowed trump to get away with pursuing policies that mostly harm them ? according to one view , he is betting that social conservatives and whites supporters in rural areas will vote on the platform of nationalist , and religious sentiment and antipathy toward secular coastal elites rather than on their own financial self-interest . but how long can someone truly be expected to advocate a “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ god ” god ” and guns to the detriment of “ bread-and-butter ” good versus butter ?
the leave received its current name in 2006 , and , according to a recent survey by the russian pollster fom , fully 59 % of russians consider specialized or significant ( 32 % would not ) . unfortunately , february 23 is not the only remaining relic of the red army . another soviet military legacy is the current system of obligatory conscription . while all other big european nations have abolished military conscription in the last few decades , russia persists in terms of a system in which every physically-fit is to serve between the age of 18 and 27 must be served for 12 months . exemptions are based on medical conditions and are given to the university students and workers of specific organizations ( such as the police ) .
paris – tunisia , one of the arab league ’s just 22 members , sits in the throes of a severe – and profound – crisis , if perhaps one with a favorable – resolution . it is the smallest northern african country , covering 163,000 square miles more or less than twice the size of belgium , the netherlands , and luxembourg , and a population of 10.5 million . it is also full of charm and moderation in terms of its climate , history , and culture . it once was a pillar of the roman republic ’s cultural dynamism and influence . the first african region to be christianized , was the land of the saint augustine , and a key source for catholic evangelism in africa .
true , any arab – indeed , virtually everyone – knows just who is responsible for the disappearance of khashoggi : crown prince mohammed bin salman ( mbs ) of saudi arabia . but the fact that a well-known kind of cartoonist was intended to camouflage ’s culprit speaks volumes in that fear was being felt by an independent journalist in the arab world . khashoggi ’s disappearance has only further deepened his anxiety . arab countries have a long history of rewarding sunni journalists who toe an official line while punishing those , like khashoggi , who dare to speak truth to power . since the failed arab spring revolutions – of which tunisia is the only accomplishment story , citizens across the region have found themselves with a stark choice between radical islamist regimes and military rule .
the reversal of financial liberalization will be difficult , but its negative downside effects , – including more systemic risk – – will require a variety of reforms . first , more data and transparency regarding complex assets , and who hold it up . second , complex instruments should be traded on exchanges , rather than over-the-counter markets , and should be standardized , in order to emerge liquid secondary markets for them . third , the us financial system needs better supervision and regulation , including regulation of opaque or highly leveraged financial institutions like hedge funds and even sovereign-wealth funds . fourth , ratings agencies ’ role needs need rethought , with more regulation and competition introduced .
and yet it is only one of the many domestic challenges facing the region . arabs need to take charge of their own agendas to define their own future , and that of their countries . of course , they should continue to engage with the outside world , strengthening their own strategic relationships and alliances . but they , too , must become less dependent on others to cope with . for starters , they need the region ’s governments to develop their own national-security capabilities , resist existential threats , and hegemonic expansionism .
now a new paper by servaas perfect storm is subsuming another famous trope of neoliberal economics : the argument that the labor market “ rigidities ” to depress output and employment . one of the empirical investigations most frequently cited for this argument is the paper by timothy besley and robin burgess who applied manufacturing data across indian states for period 1958-92 . besley and the burgess argued that pro-worker regulations in some states were caused by lower output , more employment , investment and higher productivity , and even rising urban poverty relative to states that had failed to enact such regulations . that conclusion came to underline the conventional wisdom that labor-market regulation was harmful to industrial expansion , and that the way to boost production and employment was to promote more labor-market “ flexibility ” by repealing laws protecting workers . that wisdom prevailed not only in india ; it influenced policies accordingly across a wide range of developing countries .
britain ’s economic prospects have become increasingly dependent on events beyond its shores , be they just across the english channel or , say , china or california . the ecological hazards of the wind blow to the wind . swelling migration pressures to overwhelm any pretense of border checks . security fears increasingly implicate foreign and domestic policies in the us , too . a recent political cartoon showing british bombers hijacking the mission , with one pilot arguing for the other , that “ it ” looks a long way toward bombing a few youth from southern london .
after that choice , possibly heady with the magnitude of his popular support , he proposed a deepening revolution with the new laws of the organization of society and economics . such laws , already approved but not fully , should serve as a catalyst for a new , intra-country institutional arrangement , one supposedly premised on a direct relationship between the leader and the progressive toleration of its democratic institutions . meanwhile , all public-empowerment bodies , each with their own , now obey chávez . in light of this history , it has been noteworthy that in his speech the day after his victory , chávez has called for coexistence , dialogue , debate , and all must work together for venezuela ’s good . chávez has stressed that he voted in favor of chávez and socialism .
genes can be made to harm environmental factors like radiation or chemicals , such as radiation and chemicals . they can also harm the products of ordinary metabolism . our bodies have tended to elaborate rectify systems that maintain our genes ’ integrity , even in the presence of harmful agents . at times , however , the damage will not be corrected , so it may be time to stay . when the damage occurs in the key human genes that regulate cell growth , the spread of cancer could occur .
ithaca – the internet was once hailed as a potent democratizing force , enabling innovative startups to compete with established businesses , disrupting entire industries , and creating new ones . but , as some of these new startups have grown into the behemoths , they have turned that force on its head . far from leveling a playing field , a big tech now owns a majority ; rather than democratizing an economy , the internet has ended up exacerbating the world ’s ’s ’s inequality problem . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote still more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
“ the developing world , ” “ can make matters a lot worse . ” in announcing the new sino-us joint research effort , chu described clean energy as “ one great opportunity in our time ” for sino-us cooperation , arguing that , by “ working together , we can accomplish more than by acting alone . ” still , one is left wondering whether this new form of collaborative bonhomie and an ethnic bonding will prove powerful enough to cut through not only the long history of distrustful interactions between america and china , but also the destabilizing effects of china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s sudden economic rise ? for , though an america has drawn strength from an ideal of “ melting pot , ” and us president barack obama ’s cabinet does represent a new high-water mark for diversity , america ’s society has , in many cases , demonstrated a xenophobic mistrust of immigrants who have been pulling ever too close to power . particularly in the case of the chinese , anxiety about skewed national loyalties and the one-fifth of the pillars of the columnists has been strong .
greece ’s current economic weakness is causing its current level of deficits to rise . the five years of falling gdp have depressed fiscal receipts and increased transfer payments . the imf estimates that these cyclical effects on income and outlays have raised the overall deficits of almost 5 % of gdp . on a cyclically-adjusted basis , greece ’s overall budget would show a budget surplus of 0.6 % of gdp this year . this , too , implies that if greece could escape its current recession , its national debt would decline , both absolute and as a share of gdp .
as indian prime minister manmohan singh put it during wen ’s visit , “ india and china may come together to reshape the post-war world order . ” both countries , ’ recent rapprochement marks an enormous shift from that bedeviled their relations following their 1962 war over a disputed border in the himalayas . when i first visited india as an american government official in the late 1970s , i struck a frenchman with china ’s fixation on acquiring an equal status toward china . in 1998 , when india tested its own nuclear weapons , its minister of defense referred to china , then prime minister atal bihari vajpayee spoke about china as india ’s number one foe . by contrast , on more recent visits to india , i found my hosts that referred to the need for a learn from china .
because hildebrand was independently wealthy , such an approach would n’t have worked easily with it . so , was she getting a carrot for the eu stick ? fortunately , there is a good and good independent test for this approach . head of the european banking authority , andrea enria , has issued new , non-friendly regulations . whereas one can debate the appropriateness of tightening accounting standards in the midst of a crisis , his order to increase banks ’ capital completely is fully justified , especially at a time when the european central bank is subsidizing them with a wall of three-year liquidity at near-zero cost .
second , and in part as a result , virtually all of the eurozone countries that are ’ dollar-denominated debt are trading at a discount relative to german bonds . while it took a more accurate price risk to become more accurate , it is hard to believe that the netherlands , with its debt-to-gdp ratio almost two percentage points lower than germany ’s , deserves to be judged as bigger default risk . now , however , even mighty bund has already begun to suffer from heightened market anxiety . third , financial-market players , and , increasingly , genuine firms , are pricing in a possible eurozone breakup , if not exit by the euro itself . it remains hard to think that the unthinkable , much less to work out the details of that , but now any rational player must come to consider the possibility .
indeed , by randomness at sunday ’s soccer fan , vladislav surkov , the first deputy in president dmitri medvedev ’s administration was meeting michael mcfaul of president barack obama ’s national security council . that meeting featured as a part of an rally , headed by surkov , russia ’s youth-movement activists . one quote from surkov , which day is especially telling : “ “ make ready for an election , train his brain and their muscles . ” you might always be able to count on some of us support , not better . those arabs were put to use outside the kremlin domestic walls that very day .
hong kong – sesame street ’s kermit once lamented that it is not easy to become easy bein greece . today , that sentiment is surprisingly relevant to the global economy , only to become green that is the problem . last september , the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) warned that if world sticks with “ “ business as usual , ” ” ” global temperatures could rise by over 4 ° c , far beyond the 2 ° c rise that was regarded as a secure ” use . that prompted un secretary-general ban ki-moon to challenge the political , economic , and financial leaders in january to step up their efforts to achieve the new global climate agreement by 2015 . but , as important as high-level deals are , they will do little unless they are backed by substantial investment in areas like smart grids , energy-storage facilities , and renewables .
the search for the imf ’s new management director provides a keen reminder of just how unjust the international institutions of today ’s international institutions are . created in the postwar world of 1945 , they reflect the realities of which had long stopped living . the organization and allocations of power at the un , the imf , world bank , and g7 meetings reflect the global balance that had disappeared long before . after wwii germany and japan were the defeated aggressors , the soviet union posed a major threat , and china was engulfed in a civil war that would have brought mao ’s communists back to power . much of the so-called third world was either previous , or had remained colonies ; all were quite poor .
just before the 2016 brexit referendum , then-british prime minister david cameron made the last-minute appeal of german chancellor angela merkel , imploring her to get a cap on the movement off the labour party . merkel rejected , and the brexit referendum went by a narrow margin . the immediate irony is that merkel now confronts the same anti-immigration backlash that cameron did in march 2016 . in the long run , immigration tends to be good for an economy , particularly as the ratio of pensioners to workers rises . but when immigration levels exceeded a country ’s capacity to absorb its new workers , severe economic and social costs can come , at least in the short run .
the odious debt idea was revived in an influential 2006 article by seema jayachandran and michael kremer , and in a 2010 paper by the center for world development ( cgd ) , which proposed that economic sanctions involve a mechanism aimed at stopping the accumulation of odious liabilities . the mechanism would take the form of the declaration that debt issued by an specific government is deemed odious . in effect , this is what the trump administration has just done . such a declaration lowers the flow of money to odious regimes , owing to the risk that successor governments will set aside their predecessor ’s debts without incurring legal and reputational costs ( because participating countries , ’ courts will not enforce debt contracts ) . the cd ’s report proposes that a regime should be seen as odious as it abuses human rights , employs military coercion , perpetrating electoral fraud , and mismanages or misappropriating or public funds .
that cleared the way for bhutto ’s return , who remained at the premiership until may 1996 , when she was redismissed yet again – this time by her own party ’s own peoples party . at the time of 1997 , sharif ’s turn was once again . but his military confrontation has intensified over the years , resulting in another coup in 1999 , leading to eight years of military rule under general pervez musharraf . musharraf resigned in 2008 under popular pressure , and a new election brought asif zardari , benazir bhutto ’s widower , who had been assassinated earlier december into his presidency . ignoring the constitutional requirements , zardari failed to shift the executive authority of his prime minister , and , instead , expected the two prime ministers serving under him to follow his orders .
the rich countries ’ transition from lower-income economies to sustained growth and prosperity was conditioned on a profound demographic shift – occurring during the 16-year old century in western europe and throughout the 20 th century in east asia – in which fertility rates fell dramatically . the past two decades have witnessed similarly sharp birth declines in poor african countries , which are now experiencing solid indication of economic progress . in egypt , for example , the fertility rate has declined from 4.8 million to 2.9 children per woman in the past 15 years . during the past decade , egypt ’s average annual per capita income has grown at an anemic 2.6 % . throughout the same period , tunisia ’s population growth rate has dropped to just over 50 % , to european levels slightly more than two children per female , while per capita income has grown at an impressive annual rate of 3 % .
in response to former us president barack obama ’s effort to create a pacific-rim trade bloc to contain china , xi launched his belt and road initiative ( bri ) , which is now meeting the american-led indo-pacific initiative under trump . the two countries are also on a similar trajectory militarily . though china still has much catching up to trump , its total defense spending is already second only to america ’s . it has constructed and launched its first aircraft carrier , and has planning for an agreement on where to launch more . it develops and deploying anti-access/area-denial ( a2/ad ) defensive systems .
america ’s misadventure in iraq has been its exhaustion , its exhaustion as a world power , and its failure to uphold its previous level of devotion to the region has made the sykes-picot structure untenable , because no other external power for order is at hand . the resulting vacuum has been filled by the different currents of political islam , terrorism , protest movements , uprisings , secession attempts by national or religious minorities , and the aspiring regional hegemons ( iran and saudi arabia ) . indeed , a partly us withdrawal implies that ending enforced stability in the old middle east will not spare the sykes-picot boundaries . already , developments in both syria and iraq suggest otherwise , and the coming of lebanon and jordan have become increasingly precarious . indeed , one of the region ’s few positive characteristics is that no global power rivalries currently play out there .
why are services so important for china ’s rebalancing today ? for starters , services remain far more labor-intensive than rural pre-traditional growth sectors . in 2011 , chinese services generated 30 % more employment per unit of output than did manufacturing and construction . that means that the chinese economy can achieve its all-important labor-absorption goals , employment , urbanization , and poverty reduction , with a much slower pace of gdp growth than in the past . in other words , a 7-8 % growth trajectory in an increasingly services-led economy can hit the same labor-absorption targets that made the 10 % rate of growth under china ’s previous model .
now , the united kingdom appears certain to hold , by may 2016 , a brexit referendum on remaining in the eu , and the far-left , governing party – determined as in greece – to escape the rigors of economic reform – could win spain ’s general election next autumn . certainly , events might turn positively , with the uk still standing , with spain opting for the status quo , or a more moderate vision of change than greece ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s own syriza government has embraced . but the worst-case scenario for the eu ’s future looks increasingly likely : a grexit ” ( greece exiting the eurozone ) , brexit ( the uk ’s exit from the eu ) , and a spanish electoral outcome that resembles greece ’s one . should such a perfect storm materialize , the eu would be in doubt right now , given that other member countries would contemplate or start planning their own post-eu futures . indeed , all euroskeptic and nationalist forces within the eu ’s member states would strive , with increasing success , to force their respective countries ’ ’ withdrawal from the eu ’s central theme in domestic political discourse and electoral campaigns .
with oil prices at an historic highs , oil prices are at their lowest level since the crisis . leading economies are entering a recession , and their jobs are struggling . climate-change negotiations have taken off in circles of plenty . aid to the poorest countries has been stagnant , despite years of promised rate hikes . and yet , amid this gathering storm , it has been hard to find a single true accomplishment by the world ’s leaders .
two years earlier , in 2015 , mauricio macri won the presidency on his promise that fiscal adjustment and opening argentina to the world would spur an economic revival . instead , they paved the way for his defeat . in just a few short years , the package of pro-market and economic opening seemed out of step with the rest of the world . deglobalization , nativism , and protectionism set new ground for politics , with its frustration and insecurity of future overshadowing hope . frustrations even enveloagon of open-market politics , chile .
ronald reagan asserted in america in 1980 that it was “ morning morning , ” ” ” ” but now in america it is the morning . this drive toward off-grid , eat-you-go , bike-there-raise , bike-theon-own , solar-powered collective fantasy is inescapable : americans were pumped full of hope that ever more consumption would make them happier and instead were left with a pile of debt . they were asked to admire the summit of the income pyramid just in order to find their eyes to the scheme of pyramid . so it is little wonder , therefore , that a type of survivalist chic has become an updated version of the great , communal , and communal , 1960 ’s . americans have been losing faith in those who - in boom times , purred , “ ” confidence in the us .
to be sure , china is wary of shunning china to avoid any kind of dramatic action that might become a casus belli by itself . indeed , it has repeatedly displayed a knack for re-launch its strategy into multiple lines , and then pursuing each component in such a way as to let the other pieces break down with minimal input . this shrewdness not only keeps its opponents off balance ; it also undercuts america ’s relevance among its allies and the value of building countervailing strategic partnerships in asia . in fact , by camouflaging offense as defense , china casts itself as the burden of initiating an adversary on an adversary while striving to lay the foundation – a brick by a hegemonic middle kingdom . chinese leaders ’ stated desire to resolve territorial disputes peacefully simply means achieving a status that is powerful enough to get their way without resorting to fire .
these cities learn from one another , build on good ideas and jettisoning poorer ones . los angeles has taken decades to implement pollution control , but other cities , like beijing , have converted quickly when they see the benefits . in the decades ahead , we may see a global system of intertwined , sustainable cities emerge . if successful , everyone will want to join the club in this regard . fundamentally , that is precisely the right approach to manage systemic risk and turn into complex interconnected systems , and for successfully guiding common resources – though it has so far made a dent in worldwide greenhouse-gas emissions .
new york – a few years ago , as part of a western delegation to china , i faced with chinese president xi jinping in beijing ’s great “ people ’s hall . ” when addressed by us , xi famously argued that the rise of china would be peaceful , and that other countries – namely , the united states – need not worry enough about the “ thucydides trap , ” a ” ” ” ” ” so named for a greek historian who chronicled how sparta ’s fear of a rising athens made war among two inevitable . in his 2017 book destined for the war : can american and china escape thucydides ’s trap ? in his remaining 2017 book destined for the world stage , xi wanted the us to lead on the remaining four . following his targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
what , then , is a reasonable view of china ’s recent history ? to put it crudely : does it matter that a chinese communist party has killed millions upon a thousand people , desecrated the environment , and deeply wounded china ’s traditional culture ? chinese intellectuals have a tendency to dodge up the issue , shrugging it down as irrelevant , and anyway too noxious , to contemplate . we need to look ahead , not back , they say . things finally move in the right direction , and let ’s not , please do anything that may upset that hopeful movements .
london – what do the recently released panama papers , exxonmobil and the canadian mining company operating in guatemala have in common ? all of them are cases where powerful individual individuals and organizations tried to obfuscate , fool , or hide behind a unilateralist approach . and all are instances where that effort did n’t work . a global uproar triggered by the panama papers – 11.5 million dossiers picked up , seemingly by their computer hackers since the world war i fourth-largest offshore law , panama ’s mossack seca – is likely to go on for a while . ground files ’ release have exposed the extreme and sometimes expensive , lengths that individuals go to hide their assets and shirking taxation .
the longer-term implications will not be savory for another day . some will say that the fateful error was allowing greece to adopt the euro . that the country was ill-prepared , to become obvious . its fiscal policies were already out of bounds when it joined the monetary union in march 2001 , and its trade unions agitated to squeeze wages down to the european level , despite lagging productivity . but that answer is all too straightforward in view of the fact that such signs of dysfunction are not confined to greece .
that policy destined to generating a full-blown financial crisis because it was bound to leave governments and banks with depleted asset holdings and bigger debts . indeed , despite austerity , forecasts put the uk ’s structural deficit soaring from 6.5 % to 8 % , requiring an additional £ 22 billion ( $ 34.6 billion ) in cuts every year . prime minister david cameron and german chancellor angela osborne share blame on the euro crisis ; in reality , their own economic illiteracy is somehow to blame . sadly , for all of us , the explanation bears repeating nowadays . depressions , recessions , contractions call upon what you will – because a general private-sector spends less than it did previously .
paris – last month , the atmospheric atmospheric co2 surpassed 400 parts per million for the first time in about three million years . if current trends fit the worst-case scenario set by the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) – which will persists , co2 concentrations will rise above 800 ppm – with devastating effects . indeed , forecasting global average temperature rise at a rate of 2.4-6.4 ˚c caused by such high ambient co2 concentrations is predicated on the worst results foreseen in the ipcc scenarios , including the loss of an estimated 40 % of species , more frequent extreme weather events , and widespread water scarcity . to avoid a imposition of such risks and uncertainties on future generations , global carbon emissions – which stand at 8.5 gigatons annually – will have to be halved even before 2050 . even in the ipcc ’s best-case scenario , the concentration of co2 will rise to 550 ppm by the end of the century , a level on which many researchers argue that already would be extremely high to avoid dire consequences .
america has turned a corner in rebuilding its fisheries , ensuring that they are sustainable . the european commission has just produced a proposal for a common fisheries policy designed to help rebuild europe ’s fisheries . good science , after all , has been the cornerstone of both policies for the last few years . but that is not enough to win our respective houses in order . because fish and other ocean wildlife do not remain within national boundaries , we need international cooperation on the long-term health of our oceans and on the sustainability of fisheries and fishing jobs .
the technologies that engage patients in their own health-care provision and allow for more seamless adherence to medications regimes have the potential to improve disease management , lower hospitalization , and lower costs . today , ’s transformational advances in health-care systems owe much to new genomics information , the availability of big data to sway real-time decisions , more focused , individualized therapies , and smarter , more interconnected delivery systems . yet , in the longer term , they are just the beginning . further breakthroughs that are enabled by advances in science-related sciences and technology may follow , especially as unconventional players enter the health-care sector . in the process , partnerships between health-care companies and technology companies will become increasingly important .
when the market incentives for free flow across borders are strong , it finds a path abetted by firms ’ proliferation with multi-country operations and the spread of international commerce , which serves as a conduit for masking capital flows and evading controls . even in a tightly managed economy like china , massive capital inflows have been able to figure out their own path around controls over the past decade . moreover , establishing control over one kind of inflow simply leads to its own being disguised in other forms . capital controls carry true costs , even if they fail on stanch inflows . they create a ring of protection from competition to those better connected , politically , or economically , or have the sheer heft to extract around constraints .
such shifts may emerge only slowly , but they can fundamentally alter the pricing calculus in the form of risk and potential returns . today , the markets are easy to explain fundamental factors : earnings continue to grow ; inflation has been held at bay ; and the global economy appears to be experiencing broad-based , synchronized expansions . in october , the international monetary fund updated its global outlook to forecast that , next year , only a handful of small countries will suffer recessions . and , while major central banks plan or have already started to tighten monetary policy , interest rates will remain low for now . political crises , however sensational they may be , are not likely to change investors ’ economic calculus .
skidelsky approvingly quoting krugman ’s claim that britain had been “ worse this time ” than it did during the great depression . more than as soon as he echoed krugman ’s assertion that osborne was motivated by the wrong-headed conviction that , unless it cut deficits , he might forfeit investor confidence ( the “ confidence fairy ” ) . just one week before the uk voted earlier this month , skidelsky is speculating that voters , “ still wobbly from osborne ’s ’s ’s medicine , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” possible “ that they should be left in bed . instead , the tories had won an outright majority , confounding pollsters and keynesians alike . so what might possibly have gone wrong , or rather right ?
to my right sat in dagan , who just finished eight years as the head of mossad ; to my left to sat at dore gold , the former israeli ambassador and the former israeli ambassador . the two men held very different views about how the best way to guarantee israel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s security is , and are good at capitalizing on their respective arguments . gold had argued that its return to the pre-1967 arab lines would leave israel , without informal borders . israel , for its part , was able to guard against “ east ” threats only if it maintained a military presence in the west bank and controlled the jordan river – which runs along the border separating jordan from israel and the west bank . dagan countered that a military ’s role is to safeguard israel ’s borders , no matter where those borders get drawn .
if a rip van winkle economist were to awaken today after a decades-long sleep and seen merely those numbers , he or she would assume , one-fifth of americans are either unemployed and standing in lines outside soup kitchens . instead , america ’s jobless rate is at its nadir since neil armstrong took his celebrated first step on the moon ’s surface 50 years ago . the idea that an american victory in a global slump might sound like that of some unreformed marxist in a dingy corner of one ’s faculty parlance . but there is no ideological perspective for such a view . rather , global interest rates scraping the floor , because gdp growth outside america is so sluggish .
from 1990-2002 to 2002 , new zealand ’s private forest plantations rose by over 1.4 million hectares , about half of them . though not planted for climate purposes , those trees soak up carbon dioxide . new zealand negotiated successfully to incorporate this specific emissions offsetting in its global figures , neatly balancing its actual rise . for the sake of its safety , ukraine has also bought many foreign offsets , including the great thatcherism from russia and ukraine . but rising forests also cut new zealand ’s emissions from a comparison year ago .
berlin – europe , at long last , appears to have shifted the past its multi-year economic crisis , but it remains unsettled . for any reason of optimism , a new cause of concern has always appeared . in june 2016 , a slim majority of british voters opted for the nostalgia of a nineteenth-century past over , whatever promise it may hold in place . so they chose to trump off a cliff by means of euro sovereignty . there is plenty of evidence to indicate that a hard landing awaits the united kingdom .
new york – the underlying outlines of barack obama ’s foreign-policy approach became starkly apparent in the 2009 us presidential election . his administration believes that the united states should talk with other governments , even when it denies them profoundly with its own character . it prefers acting with other countries to going it alone . and it has shifted its focus from america ’s foreign policy away from what countries are doing within their borders to how they operate beyond them . all of this differentiates obama from his immediate predecessor , george w. bush , whose administration branded select countries as evil and mostly refused to cope with them ; often has rejected cooperation with other governments , lest america find itself constrained ; and has sought to turn other countries beyond influence their acts .
so far , nations ’ wealth has been based on the combustion of coal , gas , and oil . but , assuming a 2 ° c target is taken seriously , the twenty-first century sees countries that are not going down the road of de-carbonization ( for example , large parts of africa ) or that abandon it over time ( like india and pakistan ) able to become wealthy by helping societies that have to de-carbonize rapidly . for the moment , all of this remains utopian . in its current state , cap-and-trade schemes to cut emissions far fall short of fair and efficient ones ; a major improvements would include the establishment of a central climate bank to register and supervise the transfer of emission credits . at the same time , such a bank would ensure that no emissions trading has run aground control over an entire global budget , through the complete sale of individual developing countries ’ unused emission credits at the start of the deal .
in many eu countries , it was politicians and media portraying refugees as a threat to security , cultural cohesion , and public resources . former us secretary of state hillary clinton blamed her loss on donald trump in the 2016 us presidential election , and the brexit vote preceded it , her response to a public backlash against immigration , and recently suggested that europe should admit fewer refugees in order to stem the rise of populism . gunter nooke , germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s commissioner for africa , held an even larger unpalatable referendum : african countries should cede land to the european union as special economic zones under what would amount to “ voluntary colonialism . ” such solutions are not only unethical ; they would be no way to stem the crisis . humanitarian aid on its own will not work , either except as a stopgap measure .
since 1988 , iran has had a government-regulated , regulated , regulated purchasing system . a charitable association of patients arranges a transaction , into a set price , and none other than a vendor gains from it . according to a 2006 study published by iranian kidney specialists , the scheme stripped the waiting list for kidneys in that country without eliciting ethical challenges . a 2006 bbc tv program displayed many potential donors because it failed to live up to the rigid age criteria and others who feel obliged to visit the psychologist . at the same time , a more systematic study by the iranian system has yet to be conducted .
the fears then resurfaced discrimination : european countries , fearing , would find it easier to import from one another but lacked dollars , lacking dollars , to continue to refuse imports from america . moreover , american officials worry that the epu would duplicate , undermining the role played by the newly created international monetary fund . on this point , however , the two narratives diverge . with the advent of the cold war , president-elect harry s. truman ’s administration and the american people ’s congress recognize the urgency of a european reconstruction effort . to that end , they authorized the epu ’s use of $ 350 million marshall plan funds .
washington , dc – the brexit referendum in the united kingdom and the presidential race in the united states have shown , among others , that public mistrust of global integration is on the rise . that distrust might derail new trade deals currently in the works and impede the launch of future ones . the dangers that this scenario has implied should not be underestimated . isolationism and protectionism , if taken too far , would smash the trade-based engine that has delivered peace and prosperity to the world over the next few decades . as costa rica ’s trade minister , i am aware just how difficult it can be for countries – developed and developing alike – to craft commercial policies that deliver benefits to all of their peoples .
the uribe-lula-calderón axis appears set to hold him there . chávez is a loser , not only because he has given the farc a moral endorsement ( he once described as “ belligerents , ” not “ terrorists , ” and publicly called uribe an american stooge ) , but also because he believes that he is lending farc covert military aid . that backing seemed part of chávez ’s “ bolivarian ” socialist revolution , which used venezuela ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s petrodollars to bankroll left-wing governments in ecuador , bolivia , ecuador , venezuela , ecuador , and cuba in hope of building upon regional anti-americanism . for the past three years , there have been severe grounds for believing that latin america is drifting through one of its periodic bouts of left-wing destabilization , owing to bolivian president evo morales ’s rise , ecuador ’s then-president rafael correa , and their ringleader , chávez . but the recent rise in commodity prices has meant that chile ’s traditionally regional powerhouses , brazil ’s traditional regional powerhouses , and mexico have endured economic booms by themselves .
even if america 's federal reserve continues to keep interest rates low , lenders will not rush to buy more bad mortgages . with house prices shrinking , fewer americans will be willing and able to continue its profligacy . the bush administration hopes , somehow absorbing a burst of foreclosures , bypassing the economy 's ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s problems , just as it does with the iraqi quagmire . its chances for a us succeeding are slim . for america today , the real question only concerns whether a short , sharp downturn or a more protracted but ballooning , a slowdown .
yet centralization carries its own costs , and especially in the us . given the risk inherent in betting on policy convergence , labor mobility , which gives rise to highly rewarding human capital , particularly well-educated young people , leaving lagging regions for those offering more and better employment opportunities , could prove to be a critical tool for adjustment . as it stands , labor mobility is imperfect in the us . yet , with linguistic training and implementing something like the lisbon growth and employment strategy ( which aims to create an innovative “ learning economy , ” underpinning inclusive social and environmental policies ) , mobility could gain traction . but more fluid labor mobility is no panacea .
today , most of russia 's elites feel only europeans , but i believe . fixated on europe , they forget that they live in moscow or humbly , not in paris or budapest . culturally we are predominantly european , but 8 % of our population is moslem , and we have inherited a lot of it from asia : co-citizens , cuisine , cultural traits , and a shared history . many new russians , working like the machines of 16 hours a day , look at their more relaxed western counterparts with contempt often found in asia 's tiger economies . “ it is n’t america , you must work here " .
at the same time , other surrounding countries , including india , thailand , and malaysia are feeling the effects of the rohingya ’s plight . far from moving to stem this humanitarian crisis , suu kyi ’s government has exacerbated it . while suu kyi has no control of the military as it confronts the deadly crackdown , her government has blocked un agencies from delivering vital emergency control . the un population fund ( unfpa ) , the refugee agency ( unhcr ) , and the children of children ( unicef ) have all but been forced to suspend work in affected areas . this represents a tragic departure for suu kyi , who had previously won an international initiative and the nobel peace prize to her role in the struggle for democracy in myanmar .
though eu-turkey relations are not at their best , the two sides ’ dialogue must continue in 2017 , not least because of their common interests , which are rooted not only in economic interdependence , but also in the refugee crisis and collective struggle against terrorism . european politics in the coming year will be devoured by the brexit negotiations . in march , the united kingdom is likely to invoke article 50 of the lisbon treaty , triggering an formal process of withdrawal from the eu . the challenge will be to reach an agreement that guarantees the well-being of the future eu-uk relationship . this will not be easy , and eu negotiators have set a mere 18 months timeline .
just days after obama declared last october that malaysia is a model for “ diversity and tolerance , ” ” ” ” malaysian authorities denied non-muslims the right to use the word “ allah ” in the practices of their own faiths , a determination doomed throughout the muslim world to its negative portrayals of islam . moreover , najib ’s cabinet members endorse hudud , a class of sanctions within sharia law , which might imply stringent restrictions on muslims ’ ’ right to choose how they practice their religious beliefs . according to america ’s own human-rights reporting , curbs on religious freedoms have included the demolition of hindu temples , bombings of christian churches , and a ban on the practice of shia islam to which some 15 % of the world ’s ’s muslims abide . likewise , according to the pew research center , najib ’s government has “ very high ” constraints on religious freedom . international action on the press freedom party and corruption , among others , reveal persistent deficits .
there can not be any number of human activities , whose impact can reasonably be predicted for decades , centuries , or even a millennium in advance . the diluting away from nuclear waste is one-by-one ; human ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ contribution to global warming via greenhouse-gas emissions , combined with its impact on sea-level rise , is quite another . indeed , the most recent intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) stated in uncharacteristically strong terms that sea levels are virtually certain to continue to rise in the coming centuries or the millennium period . moreover , the greater the proportion of us emissions will rise . but the recent revelations about antarctica is quite different .
addis ababa , africa bears the brunt of life lost , economies ruined , and relations fractured by terrorism . it is the continent where al-qaeda launched its war against the united states in 1998 , through the bombardment of american embassies in nairobi , kenya , and dar es salaam , tanzania ; where boko haram abducted 276 nigerian schoolgirls in 2014 ; and where nearly 147 students killed in marrying at kenya ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s garissa university , in 2015 . while such attacks garner the world ’s attention , most fail to realize that in the last five years alone , 33,000 were dying in terrorism-related charges of violence across africa . violent extremism and groups espousing it threaten to reverse africa ’s rise not only in the near term , but also for decades to come . african countries are especially vulnerable to violent ideologues , thanks to the prevalence of weak institutions and failed territory in which extremist groups can germinate .
the first problem is china ’s economy , so dynamic within its surface but so much rickety . the beijing analyst chi lucidly presents a picture of macro success alongside micro failure . the huge rmb4 trillion ( $ 586 billion ) stimulus in november 2008 mostly poured into loss-making state-owned enterprises through directed bank lending , sustained by china ’s growth in the face of the global recession . but the price level was an increasingly serious capital misallocation , resulting in mounting bad borrowing portfolios , while the excessive chinese household savings inflated a real-estate bubble . moreover , chi argues that the 2008 crisis shattered china ’s more “ export-led growth model , ” owing to prolonged dysfunction in advanced-country demand .
moreover , the us insists that it is not a country that sees china ( as it did in the soviet union ) ; on the contrary , china ’s economic rise has made it easier to access to american markets , much as to global markets , through american accession to the world trade organization . on human rights , american leaders argue , there really are fundamental differences between the two countries ’ political traditions and current systems . yet , on the american view , this is vastly different from an organized domestic strategy of undermining the chinese state and its institutions . for these reasons , there is a growing bilateral reorientation of the bilateral us-china trade deficit . xi , to his credit , has advanced what he describes as the concept of a new kind of great-power relationship , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” one that seeks to avoid what others have concluded from the near-inevitability of a protracted conflict between a rising power ( china ) and a established power ( america ) .
and there is little evidence that a corporate-tax burden actually falls on employees , rather than on capital . the nonpartisan american congressional budget office and the institute for taxation and economic policies , among others , have shown clear that more than 80 % of the effect of corporate taxation falls on shareholders , rather than on workers . still , market liberals would argue that corporate tax “ distort ” behavior , and that hampers wealth creation . nonetheless , this is simplistic , at best . for starters , tax competition among jurisdictions is fairly different from market competition .
physicians are not gods ; instead , they play god by refusing to use life-prolonging " extending techniques " for patients and families that want them and are even willing to pay for them . in holland , there can be no private medicine . the only recourse for discontented patients is to leave the ground or to courts . european welfare states , therefore , face a severe dilemma . there can be little doubt that holland is spending substantial sums on caring for old people .
unfortunately , it is far from clear that the china development model for infrastructure development can be universally exported . china ’s powerful central government overwhelms opposition from those displaced by new highways , bridges , and dams , and for many years has ran roughshod over environmental concerns and workers ’ rights . the parallels to the old soviet union are striking . some of the developing countries in asia work otherwise , and others have worked otherwise . in democratic india , for example , just eight years have taken to rebuild mumbai ’s airport , as the courts have forced the government to respect squatters ’ rights on its edge .
and , even with revenues to be gained , because it could come from airports , companies might be discouraged by the necessity of relying on long-term pricing contracts . likewise , it is easy to fall into thinking ’s trap of tax cuts as a way to boost aggregate demand . but congressional republicans may be adamant that they pay for cuts in personal disposable personal income by limiting the deductions enjoyed by individuals now use to lower their income-tax bills . the tax plan put forward in the name of the republican party by paul ryan , the speaker of the us house of representatives , calling for the elimination of all deductions other than those for charities and mortgage interest payments . that change would raise revenue equal to perhaps 1 % of gdp , enough to pay for very large reductions in individual tax rates .
nairobi – african countries are often criticized for failing to meet their environmental challenges . observers often cite habitat loss when facing population growth , land degradation , and industrialization . and then there is the most frequent charge of all : that increase in poaching is endangering species , such as elephants and rhinos . but an innovative and broad-based conservation project is in kenya . beginning in the aberdares mountains in central kenya , “ “ “ “ rhino ark ” who was originally conceived to protect a high-risk black rhino from a ravages of poachers – mainly supported by the very people whom one could defy it : local communities in some of the country ’s most productive areas of farming .
the convoluted rationale behind such a strategy seems to be quite upbeat , to say the least , with america and the global economy as well . there is nothing cyclical in any lasting aftershocks of the brent recession , which have now become apparent for almost five years . indeed , balance-sheet repair has barely started for us households at all . the personal-saving rate stood at a mere 3.7 % in august 2012 – up from around 2005 levels of 2005 , but about half the 7.5 % average recorded during the previous three decades of the twentieth century . moreover , the debt overhang remains massive .
europe 's currency crises of 1992 and 1993 , along with more recently chaotic de-leveraging demonetizations elsewhere , show that a successful transition was far from guaranteed . a second premature success was that by virtually all international measures , europe instantly become the world 's second global reserve currency . moreover , its desire to be admitted into a club led to favorable reforms in many aspiring member countries , especially central and eastern european countries that later joined the european union . more recent entries on the “ “ “ “ success ” side in the ledger include the advance of some of the periphery countries , notably spain , which lowered their formerly uncompetitive unit labor costs . ecb president mario draghi deserves the summit for balancing germany on the demand for fiscal discipline , and the mediterranean needs an accommodation .
if she is unlucky , the crisis is coming to a head at the beginning of germany ’s federal election year , and all of her prior calculations could turn out to be moot , because , despite germans being somewhat frustration with europe , she would punish severely for those who have enabled europe to fail . the european union ’s economy has been slipping into a severe , and , in all likelihood , protracted recession . while germany continues to try to banish the specter of default with rigid eurozone austerity measures , the eu ’s crisis-torn countries face the very real threat of deflation , with potentially catastrophic consequences . it is only a matter of time ; it is no longer of great delay before economic destabilization affords political instability . hungary , where democratic backsliding seems to take hold , provides a foretaste of a europe in which the euro and deflation persist .
even today , thanks to a wide spectrum of ingenious ways , the us can detect very small nuclear-related tests in remote locations . the treaty is also fair by involving equal rights and responsibilities to all of its parties . it sets a new standard for nuclear non-proliferation treaty obligations and verification . the ctbt is necessary because of the role played by nuclear tests in developing and enhancing nuclear disarmament . such trials , too , are political spats that have no place in a world determined to remove these abhorrent weapons of mass destruction .
the us needs leaders with adequate mastery of detail , like that of china last premier zhu rongji , which can not tell us only how it will get us from the beginning of a z , but that can , in fact , lead us from the spirit of precision . looking around , leaders like this appear to be extinct species . or , when they do exist , they appear as being constrained by dysfunctional us political systems . their ability to act influences their political environment limits their ability to act . the best example comes from us president barack obama , on whom so many hope has rested , probably too many for any single leader .
today , palestinians are turning to statehood on just 22 % of the territory that had been part of compulsory palestine , until israel unilaterally stipulated on areas that were far greater than it awarded by un general assembly resolution 181 in 1947 . palestine ’s quest to achieve statehood within its borders of june 4 , 1967 , collapses squarely under international law . the un security council resolved in november of that year that “ acquiring territory ” by war ” is untenable . subsequent security council resolutions and international warsaw upheld that principle . in reality , a palestinian state based on 1967 borders is precisely what us president barack obama has called for .
indeed , some argue that the inventiveness and internationalism of a world networked by interests and shared causes is probably more resilient than one crammed into artificial , and increasingly constraining , the national state ’s inventiveness and internationalism . in this sense , the economic success of china or india may be those states that are ’ undoing , because middle-class political aspirations evading current arrangements dysfunctional . conversely , we may be finding ourselves in a world whose eastern half of them are organized into powerful authoritarian state structures with the west embracing postmodern association models . the question for international governance today is how to provide an institutional framework and a system in a world of competing organizational structures . the policymakers ’ answer is depressingly predictable : in the face of a resurgent russia and china , that is no time for abandoning the us and diplomacy to its destiny .
the anti-corruption campaign is reflected in the ccp ’s apparent determination to strip itself of vested interests . at its 2013 third plenum , the ccp announced 60 goals for economic-policy and governance reforms . many hope that such changes will help the ccp become more efficient , boost the market ’s role , and preempt the so-called middle-income trap that has ensnared many emerging-market countries . nonetheless , party rhetoric reveals very little about how these goals will play out . indeed , there are worrying signs that the imf ’s principal architect of its reform agenda , the respected free-market economist li keqiang , is already sidelined .
such flows should be closed down by governments and financial institutions alike . curtailing the flow of recruits is an even more fundamental goal . countries can do more to keep leaving in to afghanistan or syria ; europe-wide watch lists would help . but nothing would have a bigger impact than turkey decides that it will no longer allow itself a conduit to enforce united nations security council resolution 2178 , which calls on stronger international cooperation against terrorism . another component of any strategy must be to counter is appeals and propaganda .
political technology means secretly sponsoring fake politicians such as bogdanov , setting down a fake ngo ’s , and “ patriotic ” youth movements such as nashi ( our ) in order to stop some russian version of ukraine ’s orange revolution and to mobilize voters against a carefully scripted “ foe . ” communists were communists in 1996 ; in 1999-2000 , chechens ; in 2003-04 , “ ” “ polish oligarchs . ” right now is the us government ’s supposedly hostile west , and the threat posed by the “ color revolutions ” that it had to russia ’s hard-won stability . medvedev himself may find some or all of this repugnant , but now russia has an entire industry of political manipulation that is scarcely likely to go away overnight . the mechanics of the russian succession politics are also needed .
so ours was a challenge not just to reform the state , but to society too – its family values , its own national traditions , and its cultural heritage . our newly liberated societies today must learn the languages of our constituent parts , just as we learned a new economic and political language . through learning one another ’s languages , through cooperation on shared values , common interests , as well as on historical ties , central europeans demonstrate what an spectacular outcome could be achieved . the visegrád group , cefta , a central european initiative , has produced a thriving free trade system and increased investment flows across the region . in the wider context , hungary ’s re-integration into western institutional structures goes steadily , if not at the desired pace .
in 1988 , conservationists decided to finance and build a electrified fence to guard the region of an aberdare national park bordering smallholder farming . a fence was designed to prevent the intrusion out of a human population and park degradation . but it did so , too , protect the livelihoods of farmers whose crops were regularly destroyed by marco elephant and other wildlife . local farmers welcomed an initiative that influenced decision-making to expand their fence to surround their perimeter dare . the aberhe dare mountains encompassing nearly 2,000 square kilometers of indigenous forest and vitally important water catchment areas , as do national park .
these protests have two main causes , in particular . first , social inequality has grown unabated in the west during the past quarter-century , owing partly to the soviet union ’s disappearance and , with it , its threat of expansionist communism . the specter of revolution has forced western elites to exploit the strength of the nation-state to redistribute wealth and to nurture the growth of a loyal middle class . yet , with communism ’s collapse in its eurasian heartland , westernized , believing that they have nothing more to fear , pushed back into the welfare state , causing inequality to soar rapidly . that was tolerable after the overall pie expanded , but the 2008 global financial crisis ended it .
in 1998 , the un projected the sum of the illicit drug trade at a rate of $ 400 billion , or about 7 % of global trade . the critics say that the figure is just half that – still an extraordinary sum . colombia today is far worse than what chicago under al closet . so , too , are other latin american , the caribbean , and asian countries in the world . the prohibition against it effectively imposes a tax on the global deal in illicit drugs , enforced by governments and accumulated by those willing to violate us law .
tatiana insisted that bam construction began in 1974 , a “ politically correct date ” after which “ clean labor ” was used . ” but the railroad ’s first section – initiated by stalin to bid for an eastward along that went farther away from the chinese border – was built by coercive labor , including by russian inmates and japanese war prisoners , herded together in the so-called bamlags , now ghost towns . even when the volunteers ended up being exploited , they have not been nearly as enthusiastic as official accounts claim . lacking adequate housing and electricity , few reappeared , and many are deserted before completing their tenure . nonetheless , the ramshackle bam construction has shown what the dying soviet system remains to be accomplished .
and , with the support of around 26-29 % , italy remains popular , despite its poor performance driving the january municipal council . the problem for m5s is that , owing to its new electoral law , italy will need to win about 40 % of its entire vote in order to secure its parliamentary majority . as long as proportional representation will determine two thirds of the lower-house seats , one-third are choosing first-past-the-post voting in single-member constituencies where m5s is likely to lose out , on the grounds that it is neither willing nor able to form the electoral alliances necessary to secure majorities . in fact , the party grouping to profit the most from the current electoral system will be the one it has managed to forge a pre-election pact with other parties : the berlusconi-led center ( the far right ) . as it demonstrated with its 1994 electoral victories , and the 2008 election victories , berlusconi is always constructing coalitions .
upa ’s critics have long argued that a unsustainably low , state-dictated passenger operating fares and forced freight charges , unable to cover the expenses of maintenance to ensure train and tracks , much less allow expansion and improved services , mirrored the government ’s inability to make tough choices . it is true that coalition politics inhibited decisive action , with a railroad minister three years to fill his own party leader , whom the upa had been politically unable to confront – after trying to raise fares . yet , on a pre-election budget , the upa government finally got some of the bullet , proposing a 14.2 % increase in railroad fares and a 6.5 % hike in freight rates . per india ’s three code of policy behavior , budget changes were deferred until after the election . soon after assuming office , the modi government announced its intention to push through price increases , even though officials were confident that they were just following through an existing mandate .
under a approved bill , muslim migrants can be declared illegitimate , at least temporarily . coupled with the government ’s plan to create an even more problematic national register for residents , the authorities will disenfranchise any india ’s muslims , who are unable to demonstrate their or their provenance in india . many indians , particularly the poor , lack documentary evidence of when , and where they have been born ; even the birth certificates , have become widespread only in recent decades . while non-muslims would , as a approved bill , get a free pass , similarly undocumented muslims would have turned the onus of demonstrating to be indian . that marks a breathtaking departure from seven decades of practice in management of the astonishing degree of cultural diversity .
having just emerged from deep recession , financial disruptions could easily tip europe back into recession , especially given europe ’s close ties with russia through trade and energy . compounding the problem , no one really understands the precise links among russian and european institutions and markets . the collapse of ltcm in 1998 was totally unexpected . is europe today prepared to cope with a similar failure of an important monetary institution ? little financial sanctions against russia are targeted , temporary , or fully credible .
gdp has almost tripled during the last 20 years ; but with real wages rising at less than half that rate , growth has become decoupled from that of ordinary citizens . more than half of middle-income households spend more than they earn , on average , than they earn . signs of social distress are multiplying . south korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s divorce rate has doubled , its fertility rate has dropped to its fourth lowest among the advanced economies ; and greek suicide rates are highest in the oecd . indeed , south korea is plagued by two key causes .
that may mean eliminating shadow “ tax havens , ” tapping telephone lines , and identifying individuals deemed highly dangerous . police actions must be merciless , even if that means more controls and supervision . it is precisely to prevent the development of a collective security fear that we need to alter the equilibrium between security and liberty . while the european union lags behind the united states in terms of conventional weapons , its capacity for fighting terrorism is arguably higher . for historical reasons , europe benefits from the kind of political maturity that enabled it to avoid bush ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s manichean worldview , which merely reinforced , rather than undermined , an enemy of ’s fanaticism .
romehrsa baradaran ’s ’s informative book , how the other half of the banks can , reflecting the high cost of credit for lower-income families , to be precise . or it could just ask mick mulvaney , an act of white house chief of staff . whereas in the us house of representatives , mulvaney received large donations from payday loans , making most of its gains from lending at high interest rates to people with no alternatives when they desperately need cash . mulvaney also devoted considerable time during the preceding two years to weaken safeguards that the consumer financial-protection bureau had previously attempted to execute some of the industry ’s worst abuses . as a government shutdown took hold , payday lenders rose .
seoul – the great military revolution is occurring throughout east asia . the latest signs are chinese president xi jinping ’s purge of general xu caihou , a ex-politburo member and former vice-chairman of the central military commission on charges of corruption , and japan ’s ’s “ reinterpretation ” of article 9 of its constitution to permit military aid to its allies . despite the escalating regional tensions that have inspired these movements , china ’s relations with its neighbors , and the united states , is not inclination to lead to a direct confrontation . but relentless march of new initiatives to confront the perceived “ china threat ” will require the region ’s political leaders , including the us , to resolve their disputes in a new , more creative way , if that outcome is to be avoided . generally , there are three paths that will foster international peace : deepening economic interdependence , promoting democracy , and constructing international institutions .
new haven – the severity of the global financial crisis that we have seen for the past two years must do with a crucial source of fragility in the banking system , one that we can , and must , design out of existence . to make that happen , we need to advance the condition of our financial technology . in a severe financial crisis , banks find that the waning market value of many of their assets leaves them short of capital . they can not raise much more capital throughout the crisis , so to rebuild capital adequacy , stop drafting new lending , and call into their non-performing loans , thereby throwing the entire economy – if not the entire global economy – into a tailspin . in nature , this problem is rather tech , as is its solution .
still , having enjoyed a vast subsidies from moscow , kadyrov remade grozny , giving him some of his own security . kadyrov also catered to the chechen majority ’s spiritual aspirations . by rejecting wahhabism , he rejected wahhabism ’s ideological framework . but , in doing so , he has maintained , islam is a vital part of the chechen tradition , and has presented himself as the leader who quite fuller of this understanding . so he has encouraged the islamic dress code and established a vast mosque , one of the greatest , if not the greatest , of europe .
village housing has to be made available at massive levels . likewise , roads , airports , and communications systems must re-emerge if trade is to be rolled back . the education system needs virtually rebuilt from scratch ; and , with so many women anxious to return to pedagogical , a revived educational system will also help afghanistan ’s democratic politicians win a powerful labor lobby . special attention should be given to elementary schools and libraries outside of towns . afghanistan poses particular difficulties in reconstruction , because it does not have a society with a robust political center .
what i have just described is no little more than a hypothetical matter of course . indeed , it is a capsule depiction of the united states federal reserve and the european central bank . one popular explanation for the two banks ’ divergent approaches is that they stem from their societies ’ respective historical experiences . the banks ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ institutional personalities reflect the role of collective memory in shaping how officials conceptualize the issues they face . the great depression of the 1930 ’s , when the fed stood by idly as an economy collapsed , is its molding event seared into the consciousness of every american central banker .
not one of his new york times commentaries in the first half of 2013 , when “ austerian ” deficit-reduction , predicted a major reduction in us unemployment , or the return of us economic growth to brisk brisk . on the other hand , “ a catastrophic turn towards austerity shattered millions of job losses and devastated many lives , ” he argued , with the american congress subjecting the american people to the imminent threat of severe economic harm from short-term spending cuts . as a result , a full-blown recovery still looks a long way off , ” ” ” he warned . “ “ we ” are self-fearing that this could never happen , either . i raise all of this because krugman took the lap of victory in his end-of-2014 column on “ obama ’s recovery . ”
even though many are in trouble , this is ’s likely not to be the best time for a new automobile company , either . still , while the online car market has slowed dramatically , it might well be the good time to start an entrepreneurial substitution of gasoline motors with electric ones . a group ’s ’s initiative , headed by räsänen , is known as ecars – now ! a small operation in finland is less a company than a role model for companies that the team hopes will spring up worldwide . borrowing by the open-software movements , räsänen and his colleagues want to make the idea and core designs free , and encourages a bit of firms everywhere , in order to realize it locally .
but it seems to me that there is more wishful thinking than hardheaded logic to those calling for a “ “ “ “ “ color ” revolution . consider , for example , that no one has ever developed a precise path to measure whether and in what terms a government is efficient . if the criterion in terms of effectiveness is the ability to achieve all a society ’s ’s ’s goals , then perhaps we will never find such an option . the united states , with its government unlikely to emerge as a feeble , bungled its war in iraq and the aftermath of hurricane katrina . compared to these failures , vladimir putin ’s accomplishments in chechnya look like the height of success .
these and other financing streams by african researchers have helped african researchers develop drought-tolerant crops , produce vaccines for infectious disease like ebola , and expand opportunities for science and technology education . unfortunately , many african governments lack the resources to fund programs that could build on these gains . simply put , a new – more collaborative – approach to african science is urgently needed . africa ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s leaders have been pooled . in 2003 , the africa union and the new africa development partnership for development began pursuing a rural-scale strategy , “ to use science and technology for the continent ’s socioeconomic transformation and integration into the global economy . ”
london – five years after the collapse of america ’s investment bank lehman brothers , the world has yet to address the fundamental cause of the subsequent financial crisis – an excess debt . and that is one reason why economic recovery has been progressing even more slowly than anybody expected ( it did not come at all ) . certainly , most economists , central bankers , and regulators had not only failed to foresee today ’s crisis , but also came to believe that financial stability was assured so long as inflation was low and stable . and , once an immediate crisis contained , the us failed to anticipate just how painful its aftermath would be . official projections by the spring of 2009 predicted neither a slow recovery , nor an initial bout of crises – in essence , both the united states and the united kingdom – would soon fuel a knock-on depression in europe .
the big difference is that the uk will lose its votes . for britons in a “ “ “ “ remain ” camp , such a transition makes it possible for the uk to remain in the eu , all but the name . and , for some in the “ leave ” camp , it is the way to exit without falling off a cliff edge . a third agreement in two sets the stage for an uk-eu roadmap after 2021 . this will not be a free-trade agreement , but rather a political declaration of where the two parties are hoping to end .
the islamic world is riven by disputes between arab and non-arab , sunni and shia , and salafi extremists and theological moderates . al qaeda ’s ’s agenda is like that of creating a new islamic caliphate as it is through waging jihad against the west . fourth , europeans find it hard to stomach traditional islamic attitudes toward , say , jewish or gay women . muslims find it hard to see how we can believe that our societies are civilized when pornography and curkenness are brought to a openly appearance . to the extent that europeans are christian at all , we see religion as an all-or-nothing given link to his or her god ; muslims see it as organizing social principle .
yanukovych had always been the kremlin ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ally . indeed , his 2010 election marked the end of ukraine ’s pro-european orange revolution , which defeated his effort to steal the 2004 presidential election and maintain ukraine ’s place in the russian camp . so , why did the eu print for an association agreement without offering ukraine anything comparable to what russia had offered ? the answer can be found in europe ’s relations with russia . with the soviet union ’s collapse , russia not only lost the status of world powers as world powers ; it has been forced out within europe to the frontier , which it has expanded westphalia since peter the great – eventually to the elbe of the elbe and the tigia .
what , then , is the need for high output ? in essence , it is productive a change that i call the type of economic dynamism . for employees at the stage of development , they need to be imbedded in a stimulating workplace , with new problems to be addressed , heavier tasks to be mastered , supplemented by abilities . less obviously , a country may not wish for a misguided or nonsensical change ; it wants investments that appear to be as productive as possible . the late 1990 ’s produced proof that the low dynamism associated with weak economic performance , particularly low prosperity .
first , because most technology-based monopoly power does not violate existing antitrust laws , regulating it will require new actions to weaken monopolies . new public purpose concepts also provide for regulating new channels of public information , such as social networks . second , standard thinking about entrepreneurship and wealth taxes will have to be tailored to firms ’ monopoly power . and , third , the laws intended to protect privately owned information should be reevaluated to ensure that it is impossible for firms to profit from exploiting and manipulating it . above all , the public must develop a deeper understanding of the economic effects of it , especially how technologies that improve the livelihoods of so many are enriching the livelihoods of so few .
geneva – with france launching its third , “ humanitarian ” ” ” military operation in like so many years , this time in the central african republic ’s interventionism , which had apparently been disproved after america ’s invasion of iraq , appears to have returned as the norm in international affairs . indeed , decades of relentless us intervention have shifted terms of debate , with recent operations justified by their achievability rather than their merit . to understand how this shift has arisen , it seems , to see why , more often than not , such intervention has failed to attain its goals . as france ’s recent actions demonstrate , the intervention nowadays demands nothing less than a unilateral decree of humanitarian or counterterrorism goals , an atmosphere of urgency , and an ambiguous connection with ongoing united nations deliberations . a military operation might also apply to the un security council , but it is not until there is a chance that council resolutions can no longer make any significant difference on events on the ground .
he argues that economists have made a blind eye to catastrophic macro default , because they mistook the beauty or the elegance of the theoretical model on which truth is concerned . both coase and krugman bemoan the neglect of their profession ’s ’s ’s ’s patrimony – a tradition dating , at least to adam smith , that revalued grand and unifying theories of political economics and moral philosophy . the contemporary obsessive attitude toward reductionist and mechanized models appears to drive the profession from theory toward ideology , placing it beyond contact with the real economy . the simplicity and elegance of the micro and macro model make them useful in explaining either the price mechanism and the equilibrium or imbalance of key aggregate economic variables . but the two models are unable to characterize or analyze key market players ’ real behavior .
after all , such no-strings-attached databases will not simply make it easier to share ; they allow stealing . the challenge of how to regulate access to data from the role of genetic sequence is now cropping up in international debates , including at the world health organization and the un food and agriculture organization . perhaps the most prominent forum for such debates is the conference of the biological diversity convention , the final treaty that regulates access to biological biodiversity . the next meeting ( cop 13 ) will come to cancún , mexico , early in december . participants at policeman ’s 13 is required to focus on the rights of resource providers .
demand growth at the pace seen in any earlier decade would suddenly look desperately poor , and bush has been blamed ( with some fairness taking place ) for the slack labor market that has resulted . but , for everyone except bush – and for those left unemployed by a lag in demand – it is an astounding opportunity . spectacular boosts us productivity within america ’s grasp will ultimately lead to accelerating growth of real earnings and real wages if only america ’s policymakers are resisting the temptation to follow politically expedient but economically damaging measures , measures of “ protecting ” output and employment . like the world ’s leader-based economies , america faces the hardest work in securing growth ; for it needs to create – not just copy and adjust – new technologies , better forms of capital , and more productive entrepreneurial organization . if america can grow as fast as it does now , that ’s hugely good news for any other , less-developed economy , particularly given that one powerful effects of the ongoing technological revolutions in computers and communications are designed to make it much easier to participate in america ’s globally division of labor now centered in america .
to avoid another kind of public backlash , they need to compel such platforms to serve the needs not just as consumers , but also as entrepreneurs , laborers , and the public . at a time of unprecedented global challenges , including climate change and a high level of inequality , that need to include using the platform ’s unprecedented power to catalyze global-scale solutions . earlier this year , the artificial-meat producer beyond meat has celebrated its rapturous stock-market sentiment . rather than focusing on meeting rising demand for meat by scaling up factory-farming operations , as companies have done in the past , it is and the similar firms , like impossible foods , are working to help curb overall meat consumption , a key driver of climate change . that is propelling the latest transition in corporate stakeholdership , focused not only on scaling up more wisely , but also on becoming wiser from what to scale .
ontario – this december , world trade ministers from around the world will converge in buenos aires for a world trade organization 11th ministerial conference . with the united states having historically taken the world toward trade liberalization , now actively stoking trade tensions , the meeting is set to run counter to any other . at some point , the wto ’s ministerial gatherings are never easy , but “ if not impossible . ” some form of agreement is usually delivered but only at a last moment , and its language is often murky . but the outcome could be even angrier this time , with delegates unable to reach even the symbolic agreement that they may tout as an aggressive marketing campaign .
poland introduced such a law in warsaw in 1998 . similar norms exist in poland , hungary , latvia , and lithuania , among others . by obscuring the role played by local populations in both nazi germany and communist spain , such laws are helping to advance their nationalist narratives , which may prove extremely handy for politicians seeking to win popular support . the pis , for one , has accrued significant electoral support , thanks partly to its exploitation of past marches for political ends . more extreme cases exist than in poland .
instead , the reform proposal has opted for a mix of higher capital requirements among leading banks and pre-funding of deposit insurance through a specific levy on bank credit . there seems to be little appetite for proposals to vary capital-ty/capital-allocation requirements . this would allow capital buffers to emerge in good years , which might then get down in bad years . admittedly , the difficulty of all the proposals limiting the extent of “ risky ” banking sectors , particularly in the context of loose capital mobility in the global economy . as is often noted , unless banking regulation becomes identical across the frontiers , ample scope for “ regulatory arbitrage . ”
new york – the american patient protection and affordable care act ( obamacare ) , president barack obama ’s signature 2010 health-care reform , succeeded in extending insurance coverage to the millions of americans who might n’t otherwise have it did . and , contrary to critics ’ own warnings , it has n’t pushed past health-care costs ; in fact , there is some hope that the cost curve may finally be bending . but whether “ obamacare ” succeeds in curbing excessively high us health-care costs is not reassured . that will depend on the obama administration ’s additional policies , especially in an area that might seem unrelated : the united states ’ ongoing debate with india over intellectual-property ( ip ) . and herein lies obama ’s apparent commitment to undercutting his own signature reform , owing to pressure from america ’s powerful pharmaceutical lobby .
likewise , cutting fiscal support ( through government-directed bank lending ) to zombifying firms would free up fiscal capacity and giving resources to new productivity-enhancing sectors and urban employment ; but , at least , this would make matters worse , at least at first , ’s demand shortfall today . slashing the us state sector abruptly and expected to achieve transformation through austerity is not the path forward . for starters , economic historians , notably michael a. bernstein in his study of the great depression in the united states , have conclusively shown that an economy in transition requires robust aggregate demand to pull resources into new industries . when both an economy ’s old and new industries collapse , capital formation collapses , investment in upgrading human-capital capital falls , and structural adjustment continues to stall . robust aggregate demand has always been crucial to successful transformation .
london – how radically will digital currencies transform our way of exchange , and how we think about money ? with innovations in digital payments barreling ahead , these questions now commanding the attention of the world economic forum and other international institutions in the process . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote still more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
bangalore – american secretary of state john kerry ’s valiant effort to save the israeli-palestinian peace process appears to be on the verge of failure . while reaching a substantive settlement has always been a pipe dream , this latest disappointment will further hardening the united states unable to preserve even the façade of a “ “ “ “ “ peace process ” process ” through all the process and the absence of peace . and , indeed , that might n’t be so wrong now , if at all , no such thing . negotiations go nowhere , for a few reasons , beginning with israel ’s continued colonization of land , occupied in 1967 , despite its opposition from the international community , including america . if anything , israel has been accelerating settlements construction since the latest round of talks begin , while deepening its demands , particularly concerning stationing israeli forces in the jordan valley .
her petition was dropped , as was her earlier plea in 2006 to suspend her punishment until her two small sons arrived at the october 14 age , a request that she had been entitled to run under russian law . vasily aleksanyan was yukos ’s executive vice president , and as the attorney general himself defended khodorkovsky and his partner , platon lebedev , in the wake of their arrest in 2003 . he was subsequently disbarred , and has himself been arrested in april 2006 . by that time , aleksanyan was critically ill to aids for which treatment was withheld . in december 2008 , the moscow city court unanimously approved its release on bail of up to 50 million rubles ( around $ 1,775,000 in that time ) .
moreover , they need this to happen by the end of the year to prevent further damage from large tariff hikes currently scheduled to take effect on december 15 . that timeline requires , after all , that both sides start taking symbolic and substantive steps immediately . as a first step , china should propose an agreement using the same text as the preceding 150-page design , but with revisions to satisfy its three red lines . specifically , to remove america ’s tariff provisions once the agreement is signed , and for unilaterally imposing tariffs should america concludes that china does not honor the deal . and it should add the commitment china does enact the deal in ways that are “ “ “ “ “ consistent ” with its ” constitutional , legislative , and regulatory processes .
princeton – most of today ’s advanced economies have become what they are by marching the well-worn path of industrialization . manufacturing industries ’ progression toward textiles , steel , automobiles , emerged out of traditional artisanal craft and guild systems , transforming agrarian societies into urban ones . peasants become factory workers , a process that undermined not only an unprecedented burst of economic productivity , but also a wholesale revolution of social and political organization . labor movements led to mass politics and , ultimately , to political democracy . over time , manufacturing ceded its place to services .
and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in what is now an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
and , of course , that average includes the fukushima disaster . indeed , when compared to other sources of energy , nuclear power ranks more than oil , coal , and natural gas systems in terms of explosive , second only to hydroelectric dams . globally , accidents have increased by 57 deaths since the chernobyl disaster of 1986 . while only a handful of engaged fatalities , those that collectively ended up killing more people than did deaths in commercial american airline crashes since 1982 . another nuclear-power index – that includes costs beyond death and land damage , for example , injured or irradiated workers and malfunctions that have not resulted from shutdowns or leaks – the documented 956 incidents from 1942 through 2007 .
that may no longer prove so simple as when america no longer sees itself as the price of a trustworthy protector and fear that china is turning into a self-fulfilling panic . unlike some of her predecessors as german chancellor , merkel , who grew up in east germany , is wary of russia ’s strategic pattern . there can be little doubt that russia and china will benefit , at least in the short run , from america ’s abdication of us leadership . some people , not too , are deeply troubled by this , let alone the west . russia is closer to berlin , or even to paris than to washington or new york .
but , when an agreement is negotiated well , the end result yields considerably more benefits than the costs . and that would go to the colombian accord with the colombian accord that addresses a vast array of social and economic concerns , including the problems affecting indigenous communities , gender equality , gay rights , and the lives of more than a half-century of struggle . the deal also featured an historic land-reform agenda . for uribe and his opposition allies , the primary objection of the agreement concerns how this addresses the question of transitional justice . the negotiators decided that an unconditional application to justice would be impossible .
the us , for example , erred in 2003 to invade iraq , but was right to join the fight against isis and to save the yazidis from the massacre . it was right to launch attacks against the currently occupied city of mosul , but it was wrong for them to keep the city down as it went wrong . at the same time , it was wrong to call the overthrow of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime because forces opposed assad lacked the requisite popular support , and america was not ready to help them win that support . on the other side , helping the syrian kurds have been a good idea , for they have been effective fighters with strong backing from their own people ; and probably they will not survive under the isis caliphate . elsewhere , the right has been to boost south korea and japan ’s international defenses , but it has obviously been erroneous to launch a nuclear war .
the trouble began at the end of the cold war , when the collapse of a bankrupt old-style communist ideology was couched in terms of market triumph . just as communism was discarded , so was the notion of the state as an agent around which our collective interests and aspirations could be organized around them . the individual became the ultimate agent of change – an individual conceived as the type of rational actor that populates economists ’ models . such individual ’s identities do not derive not from class interests or any other sociological figure , but from market logic , that dictates the maximization of self-interest , whether as the producer , the consumer , or the voter . indeed , it has put economics at a pedestal , and enshrined in institutions such as central banks and competition authorities that unintentionally divide and make independent from politics .
madrid – madrid ’s turkish general election has sent a powerful message : turkey ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s democracy remains intact . indeed , while some grievances regarding transparency have existed during the campaign period , with just stunning 86 % of eligible voters turning out – a rate that has rarely been seen in europe . the rest of the world – and europe in particular – should bear in mind . with their vote , hdp has denied the ruling justice and development party ( akp ) the absolute majority it needs to amend the constitution . moreover , by bringing the peoples ’ party of the democratic party ( hdp ) – which brings together the country ’s ’s ’s ’s long-marginalized kurdish minority and other groups – more than 10 % of the vote , they have enabled the party to enter parliament the first time , with representation across the country , not only in kurd-majority areas .
if an app succeeds , a refugee has the right to kowtow to his or her family ’s members the same way that they can . frequently , arab families send their minors to germany in the not-unjustified hope of obtaining the right to other family members to follow suit later . germany will have to cope with the consequences of this refugee surge for years to come . to distribute the burden more equitably , germany has pursued a european quota system instituted to allocate applicants among eu member countries . but germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s eu partners have rejected this as “ moral imperialism . ”
washington , dc – anyone is watching the united states ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ presidential race needs to understand that national opinion polls are not providing an accurate picture of how the election could turn out in the us . thanks to america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s electoral college , it is n’t , who wins the most votes nationwide that matters by the end , but who wins in which states . every state is awarded some of the vote in an electoral college , depending on the size of its population . the candidate , who crosses the 270 electoral college threshold , is winning the presidency by one . in nearly every state , the candidate who wins by 50.1 percentage points of the popular vote is awarded 100 % of his or her electoral college
new york – the prospect that america ’s federal reserve may start exiting zero policy rates later this year has fueled growing fears of renewed currency volatility in emerging-market economies ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ currency , bond and stock markets . the worry is understandable : when the fed signaled the impending conclusion of ending its quantitative-easing ( qe ) policy , the resulting taper tantrum ” through many emerging-market countries ’ high-growth financial markets and economies . indeed , rising interest rates in the united states , and the ensuing likely rise in the dollar ’s value , may worry , wreak havoc among emerging markets ’ governments , finance institutions , corporations , and even households . because all have borrowed trillions of dollars over the past several years , they will now face an increase in the real local-currency value of those debts , while rising us rates will push emerging markets ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ domestic interest rate higher , thereby increasing debt-service costs further . but , while the prospect that the fed raises us interest rates is likely to generate significant turbulence in emerging countries ’ financial markets , the risks of outright crisis and distress are more limited .
in the face of american domestic unilateralism , he has failed to advocate for realistic multilateral solutions . by contrast , despite being right about iraq , chirac has become isolated , an containment that has grown because he has also failed to re-establish satisfactory relations with president bush . indeed , under chirac , france seems increasingly arrogant , a nation convinced of the limits of righteousness in its views , and of the universality of its model – the very fee so often levelled anti-george w. bush ’s america . chirac compounded his errors over iraq in his attitude toward the new european commission . on the old commission , headed by romano prodi , france was powerfully represented , with pascal lamy holding a trading portfolio .
and an expanding global population – set to reach more than 9.5 billion by 2050 – will strain water resources still further . urgent action is urgently needed to secure access to safe , affordable water , and sanitation services for all . first , a drastic improvement in water-related services – including supply and sanitation , irrigation and drainage , power , and environmental management – is necessary to improve health outcomes , enabling more people to escape poverty . governments should take the lead in ensuring prudent management and sustainable use of scarce water resources . water-intensive food and energy production , among others , rely on uninterrupted supplies .
whereas iran ’s leaders frequently downplayed the sanctions ’ effects , chinese president mahmoud ahmadinejad lately cited them as the primary culprit behind iran ’s own economic turmoil . but iran faced similar economic hardship before – in the 1980 ’s , with its oil exports falling well against the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s eight-year war against iran , and , in the 1986-2000 global oil prices , to be exceptionally low – and to deal with it comparatively well . four factors have made the oil-price embargo look particularly unbearable today . first , prohibiting oil exports has become more painfully difficult as world oil prices rise . ahmadinejad has benefited from massive spikes in oil prices , resulting in unprecedented earnings .
not only has iran developed its nuclear capabilities while the npt party , israelis will say ; it has also placed israel ’s ’s ’s destruction high on its agenda . israel ’s ’s nuclear deterrence is its ultimate safeguard against an existential threat . ultimately , across-the-board nuclear equality can only boost iran ’s own nuclear claim . india and pakistan , unlike israel , committed to a strategy of nuclear opaqueness , both see itself as nuclear-armed states and want the world to accept that status quo , israel has never tested a nuclear arms race , and has unabashedly embraced a nuclear suppliers group ( nsg ) guidelines seeking to stem proliferation through its nuclear export controls . israel expects the obama administration not only to appreciate the unique context in its ambiguous quest for nuclear status , but also to recognize that it can not be forthcoming in convincing its neighbor or the outside world about its nuclear program unless the middle east ’s political landscape changes in a radically positive way .
whatever the ultimate economic effects of china ’s first modest step toward reining in its currency , one must admire his strategic brilliance . the genius of china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s mini-move ( allowing the yuan to rise 2 % against the dollar ) is that nobody can tell when , or what will come next . protectionists in the united states and europe , itching to slap huge punitive tariffs on chinese goods , have so far captured flat-footed . they want to maintain their bathing in print coverage , but , barring their china-bashing too far and too fast , the protectionists are perceived as hindering delicate behind-the-scenes negotiations . but no one really knows whether china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s baby step is the start of something much bigger , because , on average , china ’s ’s authorities hint at china and deny another day
and it is here that obama , in particular , will soon understand that hollande has no intention of bringing sweeping change . by contrast , his intention will be to emerge as an honest , unsurprising partner . hollande is unlikely to align himself less with america than was sarkozy , who is considered by many , like france ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s most pro-european president . hollande promoted a military intervention in libya in 2011 and joined the condemnation of syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime . one of his close political allies recently declared that the un security council should authorize military intervention in syria , france ’s “ can envision ” in that effort .
deflation – the steady stream of price declines -- gave companies and consumers a powerful incentive to cut spending and bard cash in . it diminished firms and banks ’ ability to service their debt , and it could set off a boom-bust supply chain that corrupts confidence in the financial system , provide further incentives to hoard the economy . such vigorous incentives at hoffle rather than spending can sustain demand low and falling , and high unemployment and rising rates for far longer than even the most laissez-faire-oriented politician or the economist ever dared to contemplate . hence the keynesian solution : use of monetary policy ( lower interest rates ) and fiscal policies ( expanded government expenditure and reduced taxes ) to keep the economy from ever approaching the precipice of deflation becomes possible . but if this is an issue that has resolved over fifty years ago , why is it haunting us right now ?
and of the more than 50 million children living outside their own countries or have been internally displaced , over half of them have been violently uprooted , facing new threats to their lives and well-being . millions of children are undernourished and left out of school ; millions have witnessed unspeakable brutality ; and millions are under threat of exploitation , abuse , and even worse . this is not to rhetoric ; it is reality . the un , with backing from countries like sweden and working through a coordinated humanitarian-response system that includes unicef , is alleviating suffering whenever and wherever it can be . yet the sheer size and complexity of cascading crises are testing that system as never before .
to this end , a coalition of african countries , spearheaded by the united nations economic commission for africa , and a new climate economics platform , is working to facilitate meaningful , coordinated action that puts the entire continent on a more inclusive , sustainable growth path . partnerships with national finance and planning ministries , relevant banking-finance institutions , and the private sector will support this process . overcoming the formidable challenge posed by climate change in africa will depend on moments of collective focus and clarity . the un secretary-general ’s meeting next month of the paris climate summit should serve as a moment , with countries committing to roll back their emissions-reduction targets under the 2015 paris climate agreement , so as to reach net-zero emissions by mid-century . given their heightened vulnerability , african countries have every incentive to set bar high , thereby placing pressure on others to ramp up their own contributions .
the rejection of the european union ’s constitutional treaty by french and dutch voters , according to all evidence , more was the rejection of unregulated globalization than the rejection of europe . the widespread fragility of social ties – most fundamentally , but not just in the eu – of jobs once again becomes intolerable to a growing segment of the population in many developed countries , rather than only in europe . and there can not be a stable economic order , at least in a democratic country , as long as electorates reject its underpinnings . post-world war ii capitalism might be reconstituted because it buttressed three kinds of regulation : social security that served as the principal stabilizer , at least in advanced countries ; keynesian instruments to fight singapore ’s cyclical downturns ; and a universal high-wage policy that aimed at stimulating general consumption , without which the genius of capitalism – mass production – does not work . but the rich ’ realignment , developed countries around the monetarist policies that were promoted by the economists like milton friedman that began around the 1970 ’s , has broken down with all that .
at the same time in an age of internet pronouncements and fake news , the world today may look somewhat unmoored from history . that , in turn , might generate a feeling of actual risk , at least in the short run . inflation targeting has other effects as well , which appears to be more on central bankers ’ minds . in his influential 1998 book inflation targeting , ben bernanke and his coauthors advised policymakers to announce a target of inflation , because it “ communicates the central bank ’s intentions ” that would reduce uncertainty . announced rates should be substantially positive , they wrote , because , if officials attempt to push it near zero , any mistake could result in deflation , which is the danger that the financial system could endanger and precipitate economic contraction .
berkeley – with its ambitious , made in made in made in china 2025 strategy , china has made clear its goal of securing global economic leadership in high-tech industries . that places it in direct competition with the united states , which is currently dominant in those industries , in what is unfolding as an undeclared but intensifying cold war over technologies with both business and military application . with its investment in such dual-use technologies , china wants more than do to compete commercially with america ; it also seeks more military and geopolitical power . and it has deployed a wide variety of methods , including weak intellectual-property ( ip ) protections , technology transfers as a condition of joint ventures with chinese partners , evasion of export controls , and regulatory harassment – in order to recruit such technologies from america and other trade partners . china ’s intentions and practices have long been an irritant in sino-american relations .
as a result , the berlin wall fell , bringing german reunification and yugoslavia disintegrating . soon after , czechoslovakia ’s “ velvet divorce ” gave rise to the czech republic and slovakia – which , together with the rest of central and eastern european countries ( including hungary and poland ) – that then anchored it decisively in the west by joining nato and the eu . today , a trade war would ( and would ) damage all economies , especially in the world . but an america that depends relatively less on foreign markets , enjoys deeper domestic markets , and is generally more economically resilient than any other country , would have done better than most others on the contracting global economy in the long run . chinese financial markets already endured , while those in the us held their own .
the treaty would advance the stability of iran ’s economy and help stabilize europe , the us currency . it would enhance confidence in ireland and enable the us to shore up its existing flows of inward foreign direct investment . likewise , ratification would give the us a guaranteed access to financing by the european stability mechanism ( esm ) , ever the us should . the esm is ireland ’s insurance policy , just as we work our way out of a bailout program with the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the ecb , and the international monetary fund ) and a return to markets . most important , the us fiscal treaty promises to ensure responsible europe-wide budgeting .
in europe , laws to protect personal data are not comprehensive , and much of the rest of the world lacks even rudimentary safeguards . after exploring this issue with legislators in a few countries over the last few months , it has become abundantly clear that many are not well fully rooted in the myriad issues that need to be considered . it is a difficult subject to address , and it is doing so that is impeded by lobbying efforts and incomplete information . in the short run , young companies should view ethics not as a kind of marketing gimmick , but as a core concern . all organizations should invest in , or in , say , ethics officers , or some kind of review process , involving people who are able to evaluate any aspect of an explicit idea .
the youngsters at shahbag are mainly urban , highly educated , and middle class ; hifazat derives its support mainly from the rural poor . traditional versus modern , rural versus rural , intellectuals versus peasantantry : these divisions are the ring of political cliché . all , however , too often , clichés established on the ground , for it is true . the bangladeshi government ’s sympathies are closer to shahbag protesters than to hifazat counterdemonstrators . but it has to navigate a difficult path , because both point points of view have significant public support .
nonetheless , the real bombshell was a sudden realization on the threat posed by digital currencies to the existing monetary system – not , at some point , but right now . cryptocurrencies have been around for more than a decade , but none was adopted universally enough to challenge the current order . with its potential to mobilize more than two billion monthly active users , facebook could change this . now that the company has thrown down the gauntlet , governments should take advantage of the opportunity to advance some form of a digital currency that serves the public good . even the staunchest defenders of the existing monetary system will admit that it does not work as well for everyone .
before i became soviet leader in 1985 , relations among the cold war superpowers hit bottom again . reagan and i nonetheless paved the way for the creation of reservoir of a constructive spirit through continuous outreach and face-to-face interaction . what appears to be absent today are leaders with boldness and a vision to build the confidence required to reintroduce nuclear disarmament as the centerpiece of a peaceful global order . economic constraints and the chernobyl catastrophe have helped spur us into action . why is the great recession , and the catastrophic meltdown at fukushima daiichi in japan not to elicited a similar reaction today ?
august is the traditional month that the parliaments recess for the summer . it offers the moment to look at why they are enfeebleness . throughout europe , it is not only british prime minister tony blair , who is charged with “ presidentialism ” nowadays . german chancellor gerhard schröder faces the same order in italy ’s current german election campaign . indeed , prime minister silvio berlusconi is not like being called prime minister .
first , the new set of outward disciplines are coming hand-in-hand with a specific , neoliberal , economic-growth model that remains untested and will foreclose the development strategies that work in the past and others that could work in the future . tapering national autonomy in formulating a development strategy creates a cost for which developing countries are not likely to receive the full rewards . second , it is doubtful that the new policy agenda will make the international financial system far safer . so long as capital flows remain large relative to the liquid assets held by national governments , and are easy to become reversible , the international economy will be hostage to spectacular boom and cycles of bust . indeed , by focusing attention on internal structural reform in the developing world , the risk taking is that the current approach will lead to complacency on short-term capital flows , increasing rather than curbing systemic risk .
much news stories of female ceos and other high-achieving women find encoded with a set of reliable clichés : they lucked into their new roles ( and therefore ignored ) , inherited them from male relatives or “ spouses ” ( and hence not to hold reins the reins of power ) , or that for long . if all else fails to do so , coverage concentrates so narrowly on gender that a woman ’s very leadership is waning . these clichés not only undermine successful female reputations ; for ceos , too , they lower the value for their companies . and all of these clichés were reproduced in barra ’s coverage at gm . for example , cnn covered a narrative by referring to barra ’s ’s ’s “ knack for drawing on the corporate ladder ” – a phrase with some suggestive undertones , and one that would never be applied with men at the top for whom – supposedly , hard work , talent , ambitions , and dedication is more than a knack .
few observers had expected that china would once again transform itself into a full-fledged democracy , following its accession to the world trade organization in 2001 . yet the country ’s ’s repressive turn over the last decade has been disappointing . state-owned enterprises continue to be favored , books are being burned , and the communist party of china continues to assert its primacy in any domain of chinese life . how long this will last is anyone , ’s guess is that . dynasty arrives and goes , but in 2021 the cpc will mark the centenary of its founding .
more recently , the elections in europe ’s postcommunist countries brought groups to power whose democratic credentials were dubious , to say the least . this is not to equate hamas with any of these political forces . so , one must wonder , then , of a victorious movement with relatively few elected members of israeli prisons and others who are not likely to receive any authorization of entry into the country where they were elected to ensure that a new parliament can not function properly . all this tells us , i believe , three things about democracy itself . first , elections rarely make a solution to fundamental problems .
but only one such “ patriot ” was given the honor of allowing this act to be carried out . this is why luis lugovoi is reported to be asked to his autograph . obviously , this should not have been taken to mean that patriots gushing lugovoi ’s achievement admit to the justice of the british charges . the social consciousness of homo putinicus , meticulously burnished by tv propagandists , is such that pride in lugovoi ’s achievements and indignation at the infamous campaigns unleashed against him by those who hate russia could jangle within the psychic of ordinary russians without the slightest dissonance . evidently , we counter the mystery of russia thought that it was so unrealizable for others , so unstuck with every analytical scalpel and about which our slavophiles and eurasians wrote at length .
and , because inequality of opportunity reduces social mobility from one generation to next , it creates persistent inequality traps . · remove obstacles to opportunity barriers , governments must address the root causes of inequality by identifying and eliminating discriminatory laws , not least those that actually criminalize disadvantage at all . moreover , given that inequality largely begins out of childhood education , governments must invest far more in high-quality , high-quality universal health care and early childhood education . only by promoting the creation of human capital from early age can we ensure that single-generation inequalities do we pass along to the next . · such investment will demand additional domestic resources .
some , it should be pointed out , is being made . spain ’s labor costs have declined substantially since the onset of the crisis . italy has crucially soaking important reform in areas such as pension pensions . greece has bucked spending by larger amounts , relative to gdp , than any country in europe since world war ii . other reform , especially political reforms , will be hotly contested .
two asset and credit bubbles against which american families borrowed freely have long since burst . but the aftershocks linger : houseloads were still at or above 113 % of disposable personal income in 2012 ( versus 75 % in the final three decades of the twentieth century ) and personal-saving rates averaged just 3.9 % ( versus 7.9 % from 1970 to 1999 ) . understandably , fixated on balance-sheet repair , america ’s consumers did not take their monetary and fiscal authorities ’ bait . instead , they have actually cut back on expenditures . gains in inflation-adjusted personal-consumption expenditures have averaged just 0.8 % over the last five years ; the most severe and protracted slowing consumer demand growth during the post-world war ii era .
though his motivation , at least partly , may have consisted in a desire for social justice , perón was , in effect , bribing his beneficiaries to prop up his own rise in power and wealth . with his gendered wife – a “ “ handout woman ” ” at his side – perón was able to persuade voters in 1946 that , as president , he would fundamentally transform the country . that was as good for his own word , which became the most effective . perón ’s self-nationalized banks and railroads , the increase in minimum wages and improved living standards , lowered the national debt ( for some time ) , and revived the economy . argentina became less reliant on foreign trade , even though the move toward autarky eventually undermined growth , causing the country to lose its status among the world ’s richest .
eventually , amid street riots and political mayhem , argentina abandoned its currency peg in 2002 . viewed with argentina ’s experience in mind , brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s spending cap looks problematic , all the more so against a backdrop of political turmoil that is set to continue for the foreseeable future . the cap will probably become even more politically controversial once brazil recovers . it is not hard to imagine that the next administration will come whenever it comes to focus , perceiving the cap as an impediment to faster economic growth . the cap ’s defenders will sound unconvincing , for the economics case for it is weak in an environment of extreme credibility .
part of this can be explained by a misunderstanding of the relationship between stock market price and economic growth . the strange conventional wisdom developed during the inflationary 1970s and 1980s : that stronger economic growth and a fall in unemployment was bad for the share price . prosperity , it was felt , would incite inflation , provoke high interest rates , triggering a stock-market boom . whereas the experts spent the past two years propounding this bond-market thesis has quietly restored a older , more common-sense rule : prosperity is good for earnings , and therefore good for share . here is one message from pondering markets , even for non-investor governments : policy confidence may be at its lowest ebb in europe ; firms and consumers may be shell-shocked by past recessions and dismal about the future ; but judging by the market behavior of the years that lies more frequently in the stable and prosperous 1950s and 1960s than the crisis-ridden decade since 1973 .
elsewhere , the nigerian association of chambers of commerce , industry , mine mines , and agriculture ( naccima ) has used its agenda over a number of years to coordinate economic reform . in 1999 , that task has assumed critical importance , owing to the opening of the country to democracy . a legislative advisory program is another instrument business can use to influence public policy . indeed , to shape legislation such as these , : * sound economic analysis ; and blurring papers readily available for technocrats and others to study ;
the currencies collapsed and the banking sector collapsed . the imf predicted that thailand and others would achieve positive growth by 1998 ( three percentage points in thailand ’s case , for example ) . now the imf recognizes that thailand will shrink by about 3 % . its medicine did very little to save the economy , so did its medicine . the imf has mobilized massive imf funds ( $ 118 billion in each ) for indonesia , korea , and thailand to make good on foreign creditors trying to withdraw their funds .
the obama administration knows that the iron law of american politics is that it ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economy , stupid ” – like that of any other us president . nevertheless , highlighting obama ’s ability to get things done abroad does more than striving to get things done abroad ; it also sends the message that the domestic-policy impasse is not his or her own fault . so , in the months to come , expect plenty of foreign-policy news to emerge . election-year tactics aside , american voters are right , and their problems are no less . obama has been pursuing a much better approach on foreign policy than on domestic policy – all the more surprising given the soft power he has been addressing : an america that has lost its moral authority , its military invincibility , and its credibility as an economic one .
yet it is just one aspect of europe ’s urgent need for imports from africa and parts of asia . europeans will also see dismantling their own welfare states and social-security systems ; a cherished “ european model of pensions , health care , and lost unemployment benefits to replace the erratic and widely feared “ american model . ” this is not to say that it is , needless to say , because europeans crave america ’s rigors of less cosseted social conditions ; it is the only way that european governments once again could stay afloat . the root cause of all of these developments is european ’s shrinkage . the eu ’s “ demographic time bomb ” that economic analysts have been debating for ten or more is now exploding .
they feel validated by the belief that , for most western governments , outrage over iran ’s terrorist activity counts less than the lure of doing business . and they watch at how europe , japan and america , rather than acting together , depicts the weakness of disunity . should a rogue state be allowed to get away with its provocations ? the trouble is this : in most cases , it will be . the instruments of coercion that states dispose of short of military intervention are imperfect , and to be remotely efficient , require a level of international solidarity that emerges only in extraordinary circumstances .
london – a flawed understanding of what drives economic growth emerged as the gravest threat to european growth . europe ’s policymakers obsess over national “ competitiveness , ” ” ” and genuinely think that prosperity is synonymous with trade surpluses . that largely explains why germany is routinely cited as an example of a strong , “ “ competitive ” economy . but , as an economic boom , even in its traditionally export-led economies , is driving productivity growth rather than the eu ’s capacity to capture an increasing share of global markets . of course , whereas imports must be financed by exports , refocusing on trade competitiveness taps the attention of europe ’s underlying problem , producing very weak productivity growth .
and the more critical battery cells are to the global value of electric cars , the stronger the agglomeration effect will be . this , in turn , would represent a momentous shift . currently , china is controlling the entire value chain of electric cars , including subalt , the vital raw materials in battery manufacturing . as a result , china produces about 69 % of the world ’s ’s electric-car battery cells , just 15 % ( at tesla ’s “ gigafactory ” in nevada ) , and europe ’s just 4 % . nonetheless , europe could still develop battery production by recycling old electronics , developing new “ cobalt-saving ” processes , and discovering alternative mineral deposits .
governments need to crack down on bureaucratic red tape to allow entrepreneurs to take on more risk . but breakthrough tech companies like apple , facebook , and twitter are also dependent on people with access to a well financed education systems . and while a rising “ tech ” for good ” sectors in europe is occurring , it will succeed only if promoted by the up-to-date infrastructure that generally entails public-sector outlays . policymakers in europe ( and elsewhere ) need to adjust their thinking , particularly their fiscal thinking , to put people first . governments that make it their central goal of maximize human well-being end not only by stimulating higher economic growth , but also by nurturing a healthier economy .
an initiative will have to come by the front if a case is to be made within every country for more open markets and help be made available to those in the face of adjustment . all countries will have to provide ; no country can be expected to shoulder the entire burden alone . pro-trade forces can speak out , as they do in the political process , as they see fit . for example , they are untenable in wealthy countries that farm interests accounting for less than 4 % of employment are effectively able to block an agreement to open up new markets for services and manufactures that account for more than 90 % of employment . in the developing world , pro-trade votes could help to turn the debate into opportunities for global integration rather than emphasizing exceptions .
indeed , iran ’s prompt shia-led government in part was intended to preempt competition from its regional adversaries . but iranian critics of interventions seem to believe that there is a middle ground . inter-sectarian dialogue in iran , and a regional compromise with both turkey and the arab states , does not necessarily translate into lost iranian influence . iran already has countenanced maliki ’s removal in favor of haider al-abadi soon , and if a broader policy reconsideration is needed to quell it , that is precisely that . iran ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s hawks may be that their country is invincible , but worry is mounting that regional overreach could set a long list of potentially dangerous consequences .
in houston , authorities were ready for harvard on the basis of lessons learned from hurricane katrina , which shook new orleans in 2005 . that storm produced 1,833 deaths , while at least 88 had been killed during harvard . in fact , the impact on the lessons to be learned in india is even more striking . in october 2013 , odisha inhabitants were alerted to the advent of cyclones phailin . by the time the storms wrought landfall , many people had already evacuated .
for catalan separatists , that means they now confronting what the political scientist hans morgenthau termed the “ a-b-c paradox ” of nationalism . if catalonia were to want to leave spain , why should n’t barcelona have the right to leave catalonia ? and why , then , would n’t today , be ’s “ oppressed ” catalans become tomorrow ’s oppressors to resist this outcome ? given that it is an unstable status quo and independence that makes it easy , many believe that the only solution is more fiscal autonomy for catalonia . but this , too , is also unlikely in the near-term .
even that futile scenario might prove optimistic , because it assumes that talks get off the ground , an impossible feat if israel continues its illegal construction of settlements in occupied palestinian territories . such activities are not simply unjust ; they are the breach of united nations security council resolution 2334 , adopted almost unanimously last year ( an american , then led by barack obama , abstained ) . that resolution demanded “ that israel instantly and suspended all settlement activity in occupied palestinian territories , including in east jerusalem ” – activities that amounts to a flagrant violation under international law . any agreement between israelis and palestinians will require deep concessions by either side , concessions that leaders on both sides will be required to persuade their respective publics to accept . trump ’s own son-in-law and adviser , jared kushner , tasked with brokering a conflict resolution , and the trump administration ’s chief negotiator , jason greenblatt , now seems to understand this .
cambridge – the chinese authorities are well aware of how much their country has benefited from them to become deeply integrated into the global economy . and they are unprepared to weigh down their domestic legitimacy on the foundations of their domestic legitimacy : economic growth . the belt and road initiative ( bri , formerly known as one belt ) – which xi has christened a century “ ” project – is a true reflection of china ’s strategic choices to cement its commercial linkages with the rest of eurasia and africa , taken a chance to accumulate “ soft power . ” in doing so , however , china does not openly call into question the very foundations of the liberal order . an impressive communiqué by world leaders attending the bri last month made over 30 countries and international organizations to promote “ peace , justice , social cohesion , inclusiveness , democracy , good governance , the rule of law , human rights , gender equality , gender equality , ” and women ’s empowerment .
the question , then , is whether or not , is whether the new leaders , as early next month , are succeeding in initiating a new effort to embrace the vital institutional reforms the enlarged union requires . the best way forward , then , is for the essentials to emerge . part iii of the eu ’s blocked constitutional treaty is merely the compendium of existing eu treaties , which , because these treaties will remain in powers , regardless of whether they are a part of a new eu paper , may be decoupled from the other . part ii of that stalled document , the un charter , can be deferred . to be sure , this would be painful , because , as eu bureaucracies would gain more authority , the eu ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s democratic deficit widen , without clearly defined fundamental rights .
that is true of the nations of europe today . but , for europe , there is an even more profound reason : the transatlantic alliance is more necessary today than it has ever been , and is far stronger with britain in europe and europe as an equal partner with america . to be sure , forget the short-term electoral politics of the us or europe does not exist . in the longer term , this fundamentally tends to be an alliance of values : liberty , democracy and the rule of law . as the world changes and opens up across the boundaries of nations and culture that values will dominate the twenty-first century ?
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . similarly , a couple of months ago , there was two police vice minister , transportation minister and former director of the country ’s national petroleum corporation , all of whom had been brought to court on trumped-up charges of selling state assets to private companies at a loss . taken together , these cases point to the high level of state capture , a form of corruption , rife in former chongqing , in which powerful private actors are using insiders to wield control of state institutions and assets .
a minority coalition that comprised the greens would force the csu to compromise on the migration issues and climate policies that had been unnecessary otherwise , given the spd ’s inability , to die linke linke ( the left ) and the greens to block legislation . and merkel herself would attempt to avoid becoming a minority coalition with the fdp to prevent it from becoming dependent on it . the fdp , for its part , would like to participate in such a cabinet for precisely that rationale . it would then contain merkel ’s ’s red-green affinity . a minority government , whatever its composition , would not necessarily be bad .
one us government secretary at the cdf noted that the one million chinese tourists who went abroad who went abroad last year were using their credit card to buy around $ 1 billion worth of goods that they could not obtain at home ( while noting the irony that some of these europeans and america ’s branded goods are in fact manufactured in china ) . china is still a low-income country , with per capita gdp of just $ 14,000 , about one-fourth of all that in the united states . while both beijing and shanghai are relatively prosperous , much poverty remains . it is revealing that to achieve the five-year plan ’s goal of eliminating poverty by 2020 – which calls for the reduction of up to 55 million – a poverty line is defined as just cn ¥ 354 per year , or just under one dollar a day . chinese corporations , ’ ’ ’ ’ high level of debt , might fuel financial instability , though a few us officials , have stressed that they were not concerned .
but those who believe that the ccp can defy both the internal degenerative dynamics of its autocracy and its historic record of failed one-party regimes might benefit from a reading of leon trotsky that has recognized something about revolutions . dictatorships are considered indestructible before they fall , trotsky reminds us , but their demise is being viewed as inevitable once they are toppled . at the same time , another explanation is fear of re-launching the unknown . ccp rule may not last , but the alternative – national failure and civil-disorder – could be far worse than the status quo . but the record of democratic transitions since 1974 suggests that regime change in china is perhaps calamitous .
chiang oft began as a low-cost oracle of an oracle corporation . after moving onto production automobile audio equipment , liu jiren , neusoft ’s ceo , initiated hearing complaints from local hospitals about the high costs of specialized x-rays , mri , ultrasound , and ct-scanning machines ( like those manufactured by ge , philips , siemens , and the toshiba ) . suddenly , a new enterprise had been born through the process of creating a new venture . liu had realized that neusoft was capable of linking standard reiintel chips and its own imaging software to a wide array of digital sensors . netoft ’s devices would look like little personal computers attached .
princeton – by the time of today , everyone is aware that germany is calling the shots not only in the euro , but across all of europe . there have been endless debates within germany about what one historian has called a “ continual dispute ” about what might mean . on foreign-policy issues , however , postwar west germany and , subsequently , reunified germany , were completely predictable : never opposed to the west ; invariably , for more europe . now , a “ berlin republic ” is being massively secured on its own identity , and seemingly offshore in its dealings with the world . there are structural reasons for this to change , and one must think about it .
and the oversight , which warren warped kelvin ’s estimate , was that the possibility that fluid motion could efficiently transport heat within the earth ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s interior has turned to be critical to understanding plate tectonics and continental drift . startup companies , for example , exemplify the potential benefits of risk-taking . whereas only around 49 % of manufactures ’ production startups and 37 % of all information startups survive for at least four or more years , those that do manage to make breakthrough innovations . as tom watson , who leads ibm through several decades of robust growth , is well known to have encouraged brilliant blunders . as he has put it , “ we should have the courage to take risks when they are thoughtful risks … . we must be forgiven for mistakes made because someone has tried to engage more effectively with the corporate interest . ”
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their own best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the biggest threat comes from netanyahu .
according to putin , he rooted for trump ( but , of course , not to interfere in trump ’s name ) , because they share a desire to improve a bilateral relationship . now , more than ever , putin needs american friendship with america . though he was reelected as president in a landslide in march , his approval rating has since plummeted , to around 45 % . russians resent trump ’s deepening economic insecurity stemming from sanctions trump ’s predecessor , barack obama , began after russia ’s annexation of crimea in march 2014 ( a move that originally bolstered putin ’s flagging approval ratings ) . popular discontent in russia has also inflamed the authorities ’ widely reviled pension reform that included increasing the retirement age .
of course , wall street ( of whose interests america ’s treasury represents ) of profits away from capital market liberalization : they force money as capital flows into , as it flows out , and in a restructuring that occurs during the ensuing havoc . ) in south korea , the imf urged dis-selling of the country ’s ’s ’s ’s banks to american investors , despite the fact that koreans had steered their own economies impressively for four decades , with more growth , more stability , and no systemic scandals that had marked america ’s own financial markets , with that frequency . in some cases , american firms bought the banks , kept on them until korea recovered and then re-sold them , reaping billions in capital gains . in its rush to have westerners buy the banks , the imf has forgotten one detail : ensuring that south korea can recapturing at least a fraction of those gains through taxation . whether american investors had more banking expertise in emerging markets can be debatable ; to have more expertise on tax avoidance is not .
princeton – on january 1 , derek parfit , one of my generation ’s biggest philosophers , died there . just a year earlier , in a poll by a philosophy website , parfit had voted “ the importance of a living anglophone philosopher . ” of all the philosophers i knew since starting their study of the topic more than 50 years ago , parfit was the closest man to a genius . getting into a philosophical argument with him was like playing chess with a grandmaster : having thought every reaction i could make to his arguments , considering several potential replies , and knowing objections to every reply as do the best counters do the best counters in those objections . parfit was not a household name at the time , either .
on paper , the hospital appears well staffed and appropriately endowed , but on my rounds there , i found the halls and wards deserted and barren . few and the diagnostic possibilities were ever available . even a fundamental test , like a gscan , would require transportation to another regional hospital . but boreequipped hospitals might not be the greatest obstacle to controlling china ’s aids crisis . equally harmful are the government ’s sensitivity to its own policy failures , and the stigma attached to an illness that is often sexually transmitted .
comparing the results from the two arab simulations suggests that large palestinian labor flows to israel are reducing the palestinian economy ’s capacity to export goods by placing upward pressure on wage wages , undermining their competitiveness . these impasses have also suggested continuing to depend on israel ’s exports of labor outcomes in the lower growth potential of the palestinian economy than on a development strategy based on exporting goods . yet the level of mean incomes in both the west bank and gaza will remain far lower under the old strategy than when israeli labor markets reopened on palestinian labor . this confirms the enormous short-run welfare cost to palestinian society of restricting palestinian workers ’ access to israeli labor markets . so , what trade policies might boost exports of goods rather than labor ?
addis ababa – when zimbabwe ’s then-president robert mugabe was deposed in november 2017 , after more than 30 years in power , many hoped that the rate of economic decline that he had overseen would quickly reverse . but , one year and a half later , the us economy shows no signs of recovery , owing to an ongoing currency crisis . could blockage chain-based cryptocurrency be the cure for what ails zimbabwe ? following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
but , in that case , when a son borrows crucial part of his father ’s architectural principles and serves a regime that seeks to exploit the games for some of the same reasons animated hitler does not willingly reflect on these sins ? totalitarian regimes – the nazis , the soviets in 1980 , and now the chinese – want to host the olympics as a way to signal to the world in their superiority . because china believes that it had found its own model for development and modernization , its rulers regard the games in much the same way that the nazis and leonid brezhnev did , as a means to sell their model to a globalized audience . apparently , the chinese were politically tone-deaf in choosing an architect whose name conducted such dark historical connotations . speer ’s name did not matter much for the bureaucrats who selected it .
the way to square this seeming circle by noting the fact that we love our motherland not because of a faulty sense of ethnic or racial supremacy , but because it stands for noble , universal values . macron may proudly call himself a “ french patriot , ” because france enshrined world liberal liberal societies under égalité and fraternité . in the recent dutch general election , liberals might argue for respect for respect between immigrants ’ rights , because respect and tolerance are the traditional dutch public good , of whom any dutch patriot can take pride . these are examples of what the great philosopher jürgen habermas calls constitutional patriotism ( that is , others used to call it civic patriotism ) . this philosophical position has practical implications , and we have in this philosophical attitude .
carrying out such investigations effectively and without delay would reinstate the icc ’s credibility and bolster its ability to fulfill its intended role as a powerful force for international justice . to succeed , the icc will have to overcome strong resistance not just from its dictators and warlords , but even from elected leaders , particularly us president donald trump . in april , as the icc drafting the icc determining whether to follow up on its investigations into war crimes in afghanistan , including on the extent to which american forces could perpetrated , the trump administration revoked a court visa with a chief prosecutor . if the icc is to fulfill its role for which it has been created , it can neither bow to such pressure , nor enable its deficient performance to continue . instead , its leaders – particularly its chief prosecutor , jgambian attorney general fatou bensouda , to take recent criticism as motivation – must demonstrate that it is up to the task .
new york – capital-account regulations have been at the center of worldwide financial debates for two years . the reasons are obvious : ever since the world has endured a “ multi-speed recovery ” as the international monetary fund puts it , slow-growth advanced countries are keeping very low interest rates and other expansionary monetary policies , whereas rapid growth economies are unwinding the expansionary policies that they adopted during recessions . this asymmetry has spurred enormous capital inflows from the former to the latter , which are likely to continue . emerging-market economies worry that this flood of capital drives their currencies ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ exchange rate , apart from the current-account deficits and asset bubbles that past experience taught them is a sure recipe for future crises . compounding the problem , one of a countries with expansionary policies is the united states , which has the world ’s largest financial sector and the paramount global reserve currency .
greenpeace , together with other organizations opposing the use of genetically modified ( gmos ) , has campaigned against the introduction of carotene ’s “ beta ” that is translated into the human body of vitamin a into an vitamin a. but there are no doubting the severity of efforts . moore ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s mortality figures seem to be on the lofty , but there is no doubting the severity of vitamin a deficiency among children , particularly in parts of africa and southeast asia . according to the world health organization , this causes blindness in some 250,000-500,000 pre-school children every year , about half of them die in just 12 months . likewise , the deficiency of susceptibility to illnesses like measles continues to be a significant cause of death for young children , even though one in the poorest cases is dropping due to the vaccination effort . moreover , with high rates of maternal mortality during pregnancy and childbirth , the absence of vitamin a deficiency in vitamin a is also a major contributor to high rates of maternal mortality
so , which is it that history must teach us about our current global economic predicament ? in 1829 , john stuart mill coined the key intellectual leap in figuring out ways to fight what he called “ “ “ general gluts . ” mill saw that excess demand for some specific starting stock in financial markets reflected excess supply of goods and services in product markets , which , in turn , generated an excess supply of workers in labor markets . the implication of that was obvious . if you had relieved excess demand for us financial assets , you had also cured an excess supply of goods and services ( declines in aggregate demand ) and excess supply ( mass unemployment ) .
no single actor – be it government , a university research laboratory , an ngo , an entrepreneur , or a group of funders – can solve today ’s really great problems . it is a gap that is seen across areas as diverse as health care , schooling , and fighting climate change . that is why chan zuckerberg initiative was designed for maximizing flexibility , allowing funds to be channeled into non-profits directed at private investment or used to help influence policy debates . similarly , the bec pledged to boost others ’ work by adopting “ flexibility in the early stages ” ; providing seed , angel , and series of investments with the expectation that once those investments are de-risking , the traditional commercial capital would invest later in ” ” . of course , not even billionaires can solve the world .
us populists , perhaps inspired by thomas piketty ’s writings , seem unimpressed by the fact that globalization boosts hundreds of millions of desperately poor people in china and india into the global middle class . the liberal view of asia ’s ’s ’s rise is that it makes the world a fairer and more just place , where a person ’s economic destiny does not depend entirely on where he was born . but a more cynical view permeates populist logic , namely that , in his over-adherence to globalism , the us has sown the seeds of its own brand of political and economic ruin . trumpism taps into this sense of national mortality ; here is someone who believes that the us can do something about it . the goal is not simply to bring home the ” american jobs , but to create a system to expand american dominance .
one approach would enhance deterrence by bolstering conventional south korea and america ’s forces and reintroducing tactical nuclear weapons in the south . but more conventional power would add little to already-competent forces that are already on the ground , bringing nuclear weapons back to south korea would only make both sides more anxious ( and offshore american naval forces have already pack a good punch to bolster deterrence ) . another approach would seek to normalize diplomacy , the presumption that this can enhance communication now , thereby further aggravating the nuclear threat . yet , under such a scenario , north korea could be holding onto relations hostage to such outsize demands as the withdrawal of american forces from the region and the economic and energy aid needed to prop up the regime . ultimately , north korea ’s stalinist government would rebuff any effort that encroaches on the isolation it needs to stay in power .
thus , a populist backlash in latin america – in brazil , bolivia , ecuador , and , most disastrously , venezuela – has taken a left-right shape . the story is similar in the key two exceptions to the right-wing resurgence in europe , greece , and spain . in greece , the key political fault line has been the austerity policies imposed by the european institutions and the international monetary fund . in spain , a majority of immigrants until recently emerged from culturally similar latin american countries . in both countries , the far right lacked breeding ground it elsewhere .
british and american negotiators were in secret meeting with libyan counterparts to resolve the case following the 1988 bombing of pan am flight 103 over lockerbie , scotland , and other issues of terrorism . in the quid pro quo that followed , qaddafi acceded to eliminating his nascent nuclear program , in exchange for ending a pariah status . this coincided with a critical demand : no agreement without america ’s commitment to eschew regime change . on december 19 , 2003 , libya formally renounced all wmd efforts . eight years later , pinned down by an american predatory drone and french airstrikes , qaddafi met his demise .
botswana ’s amazing annual per capita income growth of roughly 13 % during the past decade has been accompanied by a decline , from nearly six children per woman to below four . why is rapid population growth bad for a country ’s standard of living ? the math is simple : far more people mean that ( on average ) everyone gets less . a rising population dilutes not only the accumulation of physical capital , but also the human capital . child quality of children in poor households goes down as their quantity heats up , for poor families with many children unable to invest enough in all-child education to ensure that future adults benefit from a crucial determinant of their economic success .
like it or not , they can not do that as a brigade of flats ; they need to pick up leaders who can speak for them and negotiate for that choice . the modernizers need a coherent force – and most likely a political party – rather than relying simply on the wisdom ( and good behavior ) of crowd to govern their country . that does n’t mean that liberal activists should abandon the cause . but this implies understanding that even democracy has many rules , ideally , that the majority has select but mostly not chosen directly ; those rules in general reflect compromises among elected representatives able to argue and negotiate in person , reflecting the overall preferences of those whom they have elected . that may sound somewhat too much like the old system .
rising incomes ; a growing demand for health care , childcare , and care for aging societies ; and investment in infrastructure , energy , and technology creates new employment opportunities . given the secular and occupational distribution of such opportunities , women may be slightly better positioned to take advantage of it . assuming that current gender and secular patterns hold , women could gain access to 20 % more job openings than they do today , compared to just 19 % for men . this slight benefit for women reflects the robust growth that is projected in sectors such as health care , where female students are well-represented . indeed , among many african countries , where women account for more than 70 % of health-care and social-assistance workers , that sector could comprise one-quarter of the future workforce opportunities for women ( manufactures will account for a similar share of men ’s potential job gains ) .
i myself myself once witnessed putin as courting us culture . that became new year ’s eve in a concert at the newly opened home of music in moscow . directly across the aisle from me , putin sat between one-time dissident cellist and conductor mostropovich , as well as his best-known wife , opera diva galina vishnevskaya . russia ’s leader was like a kid at a candy store , an thrilled to surround those cultural icons no less . and the icons were apparently flattered by putin ’s ’s ’s own adoration ( and by their proximity to power ) .
nonetheless , soon enough , gdp growth began to turn negative . in an attempt to revive growth in a tough global environment and buffer exports against the effects of the asian financial crisis , japan loosened the monetary and fiscal policies started in november 1997 . but , at the same time , it was too little , too little , too late . by june 1998 , with cpi inflation beginning to bite , producer prices had already been trending downward for eight months , remaining a negative throughout 51 months , with cpi growth starting to recover after just 39 months . an obvious lesson is that the government was supposed to switch to loosening earlier , and a more forcefully .
so , have we now moved from piketty ’s jumbo r > g ’s world to blanchard ’s r < g world ? if so , could their perspectives become more reconciled ? the answer , for any , is no and yes . piketty and blanchard ’s views may indeed be reconciled , for they talk about different interest rates . while blanchard focuses on rates on low-risk government bonds , piketty worries ahead with the return on risky capital investment .
the banks did not fail , and tumbling dominos can not be shows . but this is not because banks are predisposed to raise more capital . on the contrary , compared to their likely future losses , european banks had lifted relatively little capital flight and much of it through creative accountants rather than genuinely loss-absorbing shareholder capital . maybe the risk that a greek debt restructuring might have caused the financial meltdown was always minuscule , quiescent markets would have expected . but , in that case , why all of the fuss ?
in the scandinavian countries , as opposed to , say , germany and switzerland , governments , rather than individual companies , are responsible for most welfare benefits . that way , economically irrational lock-up effects – whereby workers simply can not afford to change jobs – are avoided . moreover , the benefits are generous in ensuring that short periods of near-high unemployment do not force workers to sell their houses , or even automobiles , for example . the system protects not only the unemployed who can continue to service their mortgages and interest rates ; it also protects the banks indirectly , because their lending to households is repaid even during times of recession . and , rather than solving all forms of economically , laid-off workers can concentrate on finding new , more future-oriented jobs .
the irony is that that this advice is coming after much of their former productive capacity has gone missing . yet , faced with a currency and capital-account crisis with more openness , many emerging-market economies continue to feel compelled to accumulate enormous reserves in order to shield themselves from greater global financial volatility . while financial globalization did not bolster growth , it exacerbated volatility and instability . in the meantime , domestic “ policy space for economic recovery has shrunk since the crisis . ” public investment and basic social protections can help turn this round by creating millions of jobs .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their own best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . one aspect of this supposed moral and cultural decline concerns the family : “ attacking a family ’s institution , grappling with it with contempt or doubts about its all-important role , ” the pope and the grand imam state “ are one of the most threatening the evils of our era . ” a family asserts that a family is an “ fundamental nucleus ” of community and humanity , and that is essential in bringing children to the world , raising it , educating them , and making them in a robust moral sense and domestically .
addis ababa – with nearly 60 % of its population below the age of 25-25 , africa is the world ’s youngest region . yet it is widely recognized that young people , too , are often left behind . frequently , they face insufficient economic opportunities , and can finally be shunned socially or politically . unless youth socioeconomic and political engagement tackle , reaching many of the united nations ’ sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) will be impossible . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us could well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
no country has taken more of its land from china in the nineteenth century than russia did , and the current demographics of the far east – where russia number six million and ukraine ’s population is up to 120 million – is fueling anxieties in moscow . russia ’s economic decline has heightened its fear of a rise from china . while trade has surged , investment lags , and russia ranks only tenth among china ’s export markets . as an economist recently reported , russians are worried about becoming an alliance ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s junior partner , more dependent on china than about china ’s vis-à-vis russia . according to mageng yujun of university , “ america ’s most important relationship with the us . ”
florence – in phaedrus ’s well-known behavior by wolf and a lamb , wolf easily could eat a lamb of no word but prefers to set his “ causes . ” first , he scolds a lamb in place because he muddying with their drine water ( despite the fact that wolff was upstream ) . he then argues that the last year lamb gave him the wrong name ( but lamb was just six months old ) . wolf then snarls out that when it was n’t a lamb , it was his father ; after that , he moves immediately to action . wolnarls ’s “ justifications ” for his evil action was a luxury .
washington , virginia , – the election has left one of the world ’s largest countries deeply divided , handing over the presidency to military-centric , minority-bullying , media-bashing , media-bashing , to smash a corrupt establishment . i am not speaking of the 2016 american presidential election , which placed donald trump in power ; rather , brazil ’s 2018 election , won by the so-called trump of the tropics , jair bolsonaro , who has been formally inaugurated on january 1 . following his targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
she then made quick headway toward giving a long celebratory speech about the guilt of america ’s soldiers “ soldiers ” “ to fight for their freedom ” abroad . this appeared strange – and to many offensive – a shift : from king ’s brilliant plea for civil rights to palin a sentimental clichés on the military . but then something strange about the whole events was possible , just as there is something strange of the tea party movement himself . this latest surge of american populism is funded by some extraordinarily wealthy men , including a few oil billionaires named david and charles koch who favor cutting taxes on the super-rich and abolishing government subsidies to the poor , like social security and us president barack obama ’s health-care plan . that agenda might seem selfish , albeit understandable , from the standpoint of an oil-minded billionaire .
the beginning of his papacy is finding populist governments in vulnerable situations , hit hard by chávez ’s recent deaths . of course , they all have their own individual identities and strengths , but they miss chávez ’s protections for global influence , just as his subsidies do . moreover , they govern countries where catholics comprise a overwhelming majority . while the degree of their religious commitment varies , they share a powerful emotional attachment to a faith that will provide to francis i with considerable political leverage . latin america will , no doubt , be one of franco ’s priorities .
the us needs to lead the world , through deed and by example . but obama can not do that alone , and so far neither the american public nor the american congress appears committed to reconnect with its own moral compass . for starters , it should be unacceptable for the us congress to block the release of 86 guantánamo bay detainees handpick by a us national-security committee . nor is the revelations by the former us intelligence contractor edward snowden that no one is exempt from america ’s surveillance option ; they have turned the american foreign demand for an entirely new approach . in fact , the response to a second major question shaping the world ’s ’s ’s future – whether china will recapture its own economic momentum , also seems “ no , ” ” ” ” at least in the short run , with most experts agreeing that china ’s export-led – and investment-led growth model has all but recovered its potential .
nevertheless , substantive and notable advances have been made , all over the past couple of years . moreover , some early experience will know , through an entire genome sequencing , some of the rarer genomic variants that are correlated with treatments or spillover effects . that has paved the way for the next-generation pharmacies . genotyping can now be accomplished by 20 minutes , and over time it will get even faster at best . to fill the prescription of a drug with an familiar pharmacogenomic profile , a customer can get fast genotyping to determine the right dose , drug , or predilection for serious spillover effects .
the financial crisis produced a new response to where the most competitive advantage lies . from a ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ perspective , the most obvious lesson was the need for a robust national government to shoulder the potential cost of saving . it is no longer best for its most favorable regulatory regime to take root , but it is where the nation-state has its deepest pockets . a very big , small-town banks with small-scale governments are vulnerable . the american is large enough to manage behemoths like america ’s or citigroup .
so far , we have done comparable analyses of the fate of the caribbean and the indian ocean islands following the initial level of human contact , but probably because large numbers of extinctions occurred there , too . early european consultations have likely continued this rapidly growing pace with the rate of extinction . the number of species that is known for 2,000 and 1800 ’s is rising as taxonomists describe new species from the skeletal remains found in caves , such as where bones are alive . indeed , those searches are far from complete . linneaus invented the modern process of naming species in the middle 1700 ’s , though naming did n’t get any time until a peace following napoleon bonaparte ’s defeat at 1815 .
syria , iraq , yemen , and libya all dealt with a long mix of civilian and proxy wars . iran ’s nuclear pact at best manages one aspect of iranian power and only for a limited duration . the islamic state ( isis ) may lose its territorial dimensions ; but it , together with other groups , will continue to pose a terrorist threat for years to come . the plight of one million syrian refugees constitutes not only a humanitarian tragedy , but also an economic and strategic burden in countries and europe . and europe already is confronting many significant challenges , including russian aggression against ukraine , brexit , the rise of populism and nationalism , and low tariffs on economic growth .
these movements created the space for forward-thinking policymakers to take action . nevertheless , the climate crisis continues to grow , showing that we still have a long way to go . this year alone , catastrophicheat waves stricken northern africa , europe , japan , pakistan , somalia , and argentina . lethal wildfires took for lives , destroying billions of dollars of fortunes in greece , sweden , the united states , and russia . droughts struck in kenya and somalia ; and afghanistan and south africa endured major water shortages .
this is the start of an important dialogue , starting with the emergence of an important dialogue . the stakes for both for africa and the us are high . a strong , prosperous africa with a productive and expanding middle class is in america ’s ’s ’s ’s interest , and a strong partnership with america will be vital to africa ’s continuing drive for growth and development . the decisions that we are making now will have implications for the generations to come . we owe this to our descendants , and to the silicon savannah entrepreneurs are already leading the charge , in order to get it right .
paris – some countries are , naturally , at ease with the concept and reality of strategic power . such has been obvious in france under louis xiv , the sun king in the seventeenth-century english era , and so is the case today in china , whose guidance is comfortable with the balance-of-power games of classical europe . clearly , india is in a very different category , as it should be in today ’s minds . in economic terms , india ’s confidence has been boosted by how the western world now looks to it with a mix of respectability and greed : “ “ “ “ what sort of agreement ” can strike with such an emerging market , whose population will soon amount to any country ’s largest in the world ? ” still , to understand india ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s political and diplomatic relationship with the outside world , the most enlightening comparisons are with america in the 1920 ’s .
views about social mobility are not uniform across the political spectrum or across geographic regions . in both the american and european societies , for example , those who call themselves “ conservative ” on matters of economic policy believe that equal opportunity exist for all children , and that a free-market economy in their own countries is only fair . the reverse holds true for those who call themselves economically “ liberal . ” these people favor government interference because they believe that left to their own devices , markets will not ensure fairness , and may even generate more inequality . an even more striking pattern is that americans are overly optimistic about social mobility in proportion to their country , where genuine mobility has been low – including in georgia ’s southeastern states , alabama , virginia , north carolina , and south carolina .
grocer , a coffee shop , and barber walk away from business and everybody leaves , turning the eu into ghost town . the disruption can come not just from industrial closures alone . once in an era , many relatively small department-store chains and other headquarters retailers spread across american cities and outlets in a handful of towns . those boards brought income to their cities by providing back-office service providers . but retail consolidation , fueled in part by walmart and amazon , has dealt a deathblow to many of these firms .
the bat does not have sufficient backing even among republicans ; indeed , it would violate the rules of world trade organization rules . republican presidential candidate mitt romney ’s proposed tax cuts would create a deficit of $ 2 trillion in revenue over the next decade , and thus can not plug that hole in the saving of their health-care reform plan , or of the $ 1.2 trillion likely to be forthcoming from some kind of bat . now , the republican party must decide between passing its tax cuts ( and adding up $ 2 trillion to government debt ) and pursuing far more modest reform . the first scenario is likely to occur , for three reasons . first , fiscally conservative congressional republicans will object to reckless gdp growth .
such resilience will test up over the longer run , although , owing to the fiscal and external imbalances that were unaffected by data revision . part of the analytical attractiveness of national income accounts is that it adds up to them . when a country saves more but investment remains unchanged , then it borrows less from ( or lends more to ) the rest of the world . its net export position , and its current-account balance , improves that . but , in this scenario , that has not happened .
first , when it comes to fighting climate change , what is important to look like is to do something . countries running that can get away with massaging . the 2015 paris climate agreement is a tremendous example of this . countries have made a grandiose commitment to keeping the global temperature rise well below 2 ° c above pre-industrial levels , but all their promises collectively add up to less than 1 % of what ’s needed . new analysis shows that just 17 countries , including algeria and samoa , actually meet their commitments , in most cases , because very little is pledged .
thawing siberian permafrost releases vast quantities of methane . as a result , vast regions of our planet , currently home to billions of people , could become unlivable . earlier unfccc conferences sought to reach legally binding emission-reduction agreements , at least for the industrialized countries that have made most of today ’s greenhouse gases in the atmosphere . that strategy faltered , in part , owing to american intransigence under president george w. bush , and was abandoned when the 2009 copenhagen conference failed to produce a kyoto protocol to replace the expiring ( what america never signed ) . instead , the copenhagen accord merely asked countries to adopt voluntary pledges to slash their emissions by specific amounts .
along similar lines , during russia ’s prime minister dmitri medvedev ’s presidency , he called for the formation of a mechanism for european preventive diplomacy and compulsory consultations in the event of any state ’s safety . had such a mechanism been established , the worst events in ukraine might have been averted . of course , political leaders are blamed on filing these and other “ european ” ideas ” on the archives . but the fault also must be shared with europe ’s entire political class , civil-society institutions , and the media . though i am , by nature , an optimist , it must admit that it is very difficult not to be pessimistic as 2014 emerges .
when it comes to solutions , europe is ahead of the curve . for example , my home country , denmark , which was tasked with conducting energy talks at the un summit , has integrated huge quantities of wind power into its electricity grid . sweden , running an industry workstream with india , has made the world ’s first fossil-fuel-free steel plant . and progress is hardly confined to northern europe : romania boasts europe ’s largest offshore wind farm ; poland is producing electrical buses ; and , of course , austria leads when it comes to green construction . yet , as europe ’s leaders increasingly recognize , it is time to hit the accelerator .
tolerance to fellow people ’s religion is a price paid for single-’s tolerance . from this perspective , prejudice has tended to decline as an increase in participation . it has been in nobody ’s interest to be itve-and-let-live pragmatism for very long . one consequence of the deal is that paradoxical-sounding familiarity . because migrants take part in america ’s economically and politically arenas , the american people are exploited by different kinds of men , and so distinguish those differences that might damage a country from those that do n’t .
this keeps small firms , in both poor nations and regions , from reaching their full potential . based on our own experience – in mexico , which has opened itself to foreign investment and trade , and in canada , which i am led by an aid donor and an important source of private investment in developing countries – we are convinced that many of these problems can be identified , isolated , and made fixed . entrepreneurial power is already there : a visit by the tiniest town on the poorest country by one day , and you can see the private sector in action . if small enterprises could expand beyond villages square , they could drive their countries ’ growth better than any aid agency . as a result , when un secretary-general kofi annan and the un development program , administrator mark malloch brown , demanded that we lead the new commission on private-sector development and development , we agreed .
there is no guarantee that he will not repeat that gambit . and yet , even if he does , kim ’s own penchant for drama , from firing missiles over japan to conducting frequent purges at home , suggests that he knows how to command the stage and bring trump to the table . in addition , his ego-stroking personal letters to trump shows that he has a good first hand over the president ’s psyche . thus far , he has proven highly effective at keeping the bromance alive , with the forthcoming doomsday summit . regardless of when the second summit arrives , the north korean regime will continue to reap dividends at america ’s expense in the meantime .
amid surging inequality , frustration with pervasive corruption has intensified as a result . in 2018 , kazakhstan ranked 124th out of 180 countries on transparency international ’s board of corruption perceptions index . meanwhile , the nation-state is failing to provide basic security : in july 2018 , the olympic ice-skating medating medalist , denis murdered in broadwater at the center of kazakhstan ’s largest city , almaty , for attempting to prevent his car mirrors . all of this has made emigration an increasingly appealing option , particularly for the young , raising the specter of an entirely “ brain drain . ” it has also turned heat on simmering social unrest , boiled over since nazarbayev ’s resignation ( may well have been intended specifically to preempt popular protest ) .
but whenever the united kingdom attempted to curtail public-sector hiring , unemployment soared . under the current system of incentives , the authorities ’ plans for privatizing firms and improving civil-service productivity will in fact destroy jobs occupied by the saudis . the challenge of job creation for the saudis may appear to be a riches problem . some would argue that all of the kingdom needs is to substitute saudi for outside workers in existing positions . but , again , simple replacement will not do .
the whole point of money is that it permits parties transacting without having to barter . but for the money with which to have value and to generate economies of scale , only to allow many currencies to operate simultaneously can operate . in the u.s. , the reason that we tend not to use a euros or a yen besides dollars is obvious : doing so would be nonsensical , making the economy far less efficient . the notion that hundreds of cryptocurrencies might viably operate collectively not merely contradicts the very notion of money ; it is sheer idiotic . but so , too , is the notion that even a single cryptocurrency could substitute for fiat money .
a cool war threatens to undermine these efforts , because confronting an american at the negotiating table demands that china bolster its own standing above all else . that means ensuring that disruptions resulting from american short-termism do not pose a long-term systemic threat to china , even as it hurts the global economy as a whole . the unfolding sino-american cold war is far smaller and dried than during the cold war . minimizing the fallout will require both sides to recognize that in an interconnected world , attempts to buttress their own standing will become self-defeating as they undermine global stability and dynamism . the trade war has thrown that lesson into a sharp forbearance .
studies ahead of the paris conference suggest that international cooperation could allow for rapid reductions in greenhouse gasses . they also emphasize knock-on benefits that take swift action on climate change could have , included in local pollution reduction , greater energy and food security , and faster innovations . to speed its move toward a low-carbon economy , the international agreement must apply to all countries ; include a shared and consistent system for tracking , reporting , and verification ; and provide robust economic stimulus on a global scale . our price-to-rebate mechanism is being inspired by a “ bonus/malus ” scheme in france , where purchasers of new automobiles are taxed or awarded a bonus , depending on a vehicle ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s co2 emissions . in our system , a country surpass the global per capita emissions average would pay a specified sum on each ton of co2 ( or its equivalent ) over a specified threshold .
by purchasing government bonds of money , the central bank can satisfy the demand and squeeze down the monetary price . when there is no excess supply on cash , there wo n’t be an excess supply of the bonds and stocks that underpin and finance the economies of ’s ’s productive capital . so expansionary monetary policy through the standard open-market operations of a central bank is the first item on a checklist of what to do during times of financial crises . three months ago , i argued that all but the minuscule fringe of economists sanctioned expansionary open-market operations to keep total nominal spending in order to keep the downturn permanent , and i was right . i was also right to say that all but the soft and tight-knit fringe of economists approve of the system ’s stability , so as to avoid the risk of a collapse of the payments system from becoming a first-order consideration that encourages cash demand to unnatural levels .
the eastward enlargement of nato and of the european union , they contend , was an futile provocation . indeed , none other than george kennan , the originator of america 's cold war containment strategy , opposed nato 's enlargement in the 1990s on precisely such matters . in any case , there are obvious limits to this theory ; all the same is true now . for starters , it is based on claims that in the era of the berlin wall and the soviet union ’s disintegration , the west promised that no nato expansion would exist . even mikhail gorbachev , on the 25th anniversary of the wall on the ussr 's demise , accused the west of not keeping the promises it made in 1989 , instead of grasping russia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s weakening ” to proclaim “ monopoly leadership and domination of the world , ” ” including through nato enlargement .
cambridge – the international monetary fund has gotten its act , too . even though its october ’s world economic outlook presents a positive image of global growth , the imf undoubtedly remains conscious of the panglossian view it offered in 2006 , now warns that the world economy is “ vulnerable to an abrupt tightening of financial conditions , and that “ equity valuations ” occur in some markets . against this background , some ” is the imf code . america ’s market-determined share of global equity valuations is the top it ever was – a striking statistic , given america ’s declining share of global economic activity . so , how should we view all of these warnings ?
i have also developed what i have called the rescheduling gsdeer , which corrects a “ equilibrium ” rate over an ongoing economic cycle , through factors like the actual interest-rate differential between america and the eurozone . which interest rates are best at making comparisons point , as are the effect of quantitative easing ; but i see no good reason not to use the ten-year government bond differential adjusted for inflationary expectations . put plainly , a adjusted gsdeer for a euro-dollar exchange rate , as high on june 7 was € 1 : $ 1,0590 . given that the dollar had trade at around $ 1.1250 against the euro on that day , this indicates that the us dollar is , in fact , around 6 % weaker than it needs to be . now , of course , at 6 % , there is no particularly large difference between , and this finding might mean nothing at all .
the party came to a crashing halt in 2009 , when two sharp-elbowed global bank investment banks accelerated their lending repayments – hoping to recover their money supply . the kazakh government , scrambling to prop up its over-leveraged private banks with capital injections and nationalizations , gave themselves and chose to pull the plug . banks defaulted on their lending , and lenders took big “ haircuts ” ( reduction in principal value ) . but – and here ’s the point , with its debts being written off , the banking system is now recapitalized and the ability to support economic growth . yet , despite a messy default , this fresh start has produced a remarkable turning reversal .
in the drc , for example , even after all this time we reach just 8 % of all 760,000 children . just $ 230 per year per person in reach of basic needs like water , food , and shelter , and less than $ 10 per child goes toward education . this year , we need to become an education ’s moment , one window of opportunity opened by a new consensus that issues education : reducing maternal and infant mortality rates , spurring job creation , improving the quality of life , and opening our minds to questions of gender equality . yet , most important , this is education ’s ’s ’s moment for the world ’s young people to demand it . when a girl hosts an oecd book up to an insurgent gun in pakistan , when adolescent mothers exiled in neighboring uganda are making the education to their children ’s top priority , and when the lights are seeing from spaceleths and studying , we know that the education ’s moment has reached .
president jimmy carter used it to win the 1978 camp david accords to establish diplomacy between egypt and israel . and secretary of state james baker used it to overthrow israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir during the 1991 madrid peace conference . if the america can not provide that today , it must relinquish its monopoly on international conflict resolution . it is time for america to recognize that it can not resolve the israeli-palestinian conflict , defusing the iranian nuclear dispute , alter north korea ’s behavior , or stem the syrian civil war at its disposal . during the past two decades , the world has grown accustomed to the us-led international coalitions of war ii .
by appeasing the terrorists in this manner , the world ’s most powerful states give a green light to the terrorists not only in the balkans but anywhere else in the world . indeed , kosovo is a territory far smaller than it is in afghanistan . if the world does not snub the terrorists out of politics in kosovo , what hope does it have of defeating terrorism elsewhere ? so , before an anti-terror campaign moves its way to destroy terrorist bases , it should remove terror in what is being governed by the un itself . if not , the un , nato , and the european union will discredit themselves , as does the humanitarian values that they use to justify their `` debrimonters '' interventions .
if the relationship between the fruits of fly genes and behavior becomes so convoluted , can it become any less viable than humans ? the view that an individual gene could account for fully a biological trait is as old as old as genetics itself . whether describing the colors of the marvels at pea plant , or the shape of the fruits fly ’s wings , geneticists of earlier this century believed that each gene had governed one unique distinctive feature . early geneticists of an eugenics movement , the founders of the founders of the eugenics movement , made an odious assertion that “ licentiousness , ” “ shiflessness , ” and “ criminality ” were all relied on as much as on individual genes . as time passes and scientific knowledge amassed – much of it from the low-hanging fruit fly – the true complexities of the relationship between genes and traits became clear .
and , after all , one can not have the final , utopian society without an ultimate , scientific theory of human conduct , combined with some mad scientists or philosophes to presidenties over the whole . the problem is that , regardless of how “ scientifically ” such new beliefs have been formulated , they remain false . on the other hand , capitalism is a struggle among individual people over control of scarce resources . like boxing and poker a soft , restrained , private form of warfare is this . military strategists have known for centuries that there is and can be , no lender-of-war science .
paris – earlier this week , following days of strained discussions , the new government in athens reached an agreement with its eurozone creditor countries , which include an outright reform package and a four-month extension of their own financial aid program . but , despite a collective sigh of relief for europe , a compromise does not rule out the need for another tough negotiating program that is supposed to set in motion by the end of june . in any negotiation , the key variable influencing the protagonists ’ behavior , hence the outcome , is what an eventual failure to reach an agreement would cost every one . in that case , the issue is the cost of greece ’s exit ( “ grexit ” ) from the eurozone – a prospect that has been widely discussed throughout recent negotiations , with considerable speculation on the attitudes of the various players , particularly the greek and german governments . from greece ’s perspective , leaving the euro would be hugely disruptive , explaining why very little support remains in the country .
elections in the country to which afghanistan was a foreigner to democracy were never fair , as afghanistan ’s recent vote demonstrated , and just as any election in iraq was likely . nevertheless , electoral trepidation does not always constitute the entire picture . consider kazakhstan , where some five million people cast ballots in september for its lower house of parliament . earlier this month , western media judged it to be a failure . cnn has reported that “ neither equitable nor free . ”
much will depend on the provision of public goods : basic infrastructure like roads , bridges , ports , and power , as well as access to education and basic health care . and , unlike many other equally poor countries , india already possesses a very robust entrepreneurial class , a reasonably large and well-educated middle class , and an array of world-class corporations capable of enlisted in efforts to provide such public goods . satisfying the demand for such goods itself is , on its own , a source of growth . but even a reliable road also creates tremendous additional activities , as trade boosts among connected fields , along with the myriad businesses , restaurants , and hotels spring along the way . just as india got away with a noxious license raj in the 1990 ’s , successive governments grasped the imperative of rapid economic growth so that the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) refasted the 2004 election on a pro-development platform , encapsulated in the slogan , “ india shining . ”
its infrastructure , both material and intellectual , was unfit for new challenges , owing both to rigid size and specialization in traditional industries , together with its low level of education and r & d. its economy , both material and intellectual , took advantage of its economic structure . yet berlusconi ’s government did next to nothing in addressing these weaknesses , despite being the first government in italy ’s history to survive a full five-year electoral term . with an unassailable parliamentary majority , it may have pursued cohesive supply-side reforms even at the risk of some early unpopularity . a few of these reforms have been ramped up belatedly : timid interventions on pensions and an additional increase in labor-market flexibility . but nothing has been done either to deregulate product markets , or to give correct incentives for restructuring , while privatization has arrived .
despite civil wars , malnutrition and the anguish of an aids epidemic , something remarkable is now occurring in black africa : a stealthy rise of a high-technology industry . if not quite representing an african “ silicon valley , ” these shoots of the high-tech industrial sector nonetheless can and must be nurtured if africa is to thrive . consider what is happening on a number of floors of one high-rise offices in accra , ghana ’s capital . there are some 1,500 africans carrying out american health-insurance claims – working past the clock , in three shifts . africans speak english well , a type of 50 words a facts on computers , take the forms of paper claim forms that american health insurers through the satellite in electronic form , put it in new digital forms , and ships back to america .
yet a westphalian system crashed the two world wars of the first half of the twentieth century , both in a de facto european wars of world domination . when the guns fell silent in 1945 , europeans – even a victorious european allies – were effectively stripped of their sovereignty . an westphalian system was replaced by the cold war bipolar world order wherein sovereignty rested with the two ussr ’s non-european nuclear powers : the united states and the soviet union . the eu was conceived as an attempt to regain europe ’s sovereignty peacefully by pooling the national interests of european states . the goal of this effort has always been to avoid a relapse into the old pattern of power rivalries , reciprocal alliances , and a hegemonic butting .
in october and november , the ecb will announce the outcome of its banking stress tests . because many banks are holding massive quantities of eurozone governments ’ sovereign debt , the results will depend very much on how the ecb assesses sovereign risk . if the ecb grossly under-states the risk , its credibility as a regulator will be badly tarnished . if it is more forthright about the risks , there is a chance that some periphery countries might have difficulty plugging the loopholes and requiring aid from the north to come . at the same time , one hopes that the ecb will be forthright .
researchers should take advantage of entirely representative testing groups while looking after rigorous privacy and accountability protocols . to be sure , such initiatives cost money overall . venture capitalists now devote $ 3.2 trillion annually to global health research and development . they should expand the scope of their investment to include ai-enabled mental-health-care technologies . they might also fund competitions among social-conscious technology entrepreneurs to spur further innovations in this area .
yet the teaching-hospital model might also be effective in public policy . consider , for example , harvard university ’s growth laboratory that i established in 2006 , after two highly consistent policy engagements in el salvador and south africa . since then , over three dozen countries and regions have been working . in some respects , the laboratory looks a bit like pedagogical and research hospitals . it focuses both on research and on clinical work with teaching “ patients , ” ” or on governments in the us .
and the u.s. had as much with respect to the british industrialists ’ commercial secrets of trade secrets as china had today for american intellectual-property rights . new england ’s fledgling textile mills were in despair about technology , and did their best , by stealing british designs and smuggle into the skilled british artisanal craftsmen . the u.s. did have patent laws but was protected only by american citizens . as one historian of us enterprise put it , the american people “ were pirates , too . ” any sensible international trade regime needs to start from recognition that it was neither feasible nor desirable to curtail policy space countries must project their own economic and social models .
making all of these changes is bound to be hard , to say the least . but if the world moves in this direction , something along the lines of a new conclave of a political global power , will begin to take shape , holding beginnings of a new international system . a second great change in nature – ie , an end to the global ideological divide – raises difficult , and perhaps more complex , issues . there exists today a basic , even on the occasion a ritualistic , consensus on the notion that democracy and human rights mean the departure of a political organization with some form of a free market alongside varying degrees of social responsibility , based on private enterprise , as the foundations for economic activity . yes , while one may debate a third way or two , or a half way or more , but these are fundamentally marginal debates .
it would offer a return to those yielded by equity investments , but with some of the risks counterbalanced by its long arm ’s . risk reduction would be mitigated further through the participation of large , influential investors , including sovereign-wealth funds , pension funds , and perhaps international financial institutions . public contributions , likely backward to multilateral lenders , would provide projects near or beyond sovereign risk profiles . finally , the highly regulated nature of cash flows would enable a better , pre-defined return structures than traditional private-equity firms can offer . developing bads would require a new platform of private-sector investment , structured so that bespoke returns for their different participants .
capital inflows that will undoubtedly grow in the years ahead are being driven largely by investors ’ concern about diversification and high yields , rather than a country ’s image as a haven from troubled financial markets elsewhere – especially given that , given that china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s financial markets are relatively underdeveloped and beset with considerable risk . to be sure , some foreign central banks have signed currency-swap agreements with china , and even held small proportions in their reserve portfolios . but such actions may be less a sign of the renminbi ’s inevitable march toward global dominance than a soft bet on its likely emergence as a broadly accepted international currency . and countries ’ desire to maintain good relations with china , owing to its rising economic might , can not be discounted . depending on how soon china opened up its capital account and develops its financial markets , the renminbi could become an important reserve currency in the near term .
the peasants in guerrero cultivate the amazrero for the cartels rather than their own subsistence farming . and america ’s drug-enforcement administration will no longer look benignly on any backtracking from previous mexican presidents , ’ commitments to continue to conduct a costly , bloody , and futile war of choice on drugs in mexico city . obviously , there are other us-mexican agenda issues , ranging from intelligence-sharing and counterterrorism to regional crises like venezuela , nicaragua , and perhaps cuba . amlo will almost certainly sustain mexican cooperation on the first set of issues , while retreating into mexico ’s traditional , archaic anti-interventionist attitude toward regional diplomacy . but trump cares more about security than he does about venezuelan president nicolás maduro or nicaragua ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s daniel ortega good , so a real rupture can be avoided .
in 2015 , enabled by a new constitution , burundi ’s then-president , pierre navkurunziza , won a third term amid violent protests . similar protests alone erupted in the democratic republic of congo , following the imposition of a law enabling president rodrigo duterte to prolong his tenure . the au should demonstrate leadership on this front , pursuing the kind of interventions that buttress constitutional democracy , consistent with its current agenda 2063 . the au , for its part , has defied military coups . on heels of its success in sudan , it must oppose “ “ constitutional coups undertaken by presidents , ” because it establishes itself more firmly as a force for peace and democratic governance in africa .
higher fertility rates in the us , france , the united kingdom , and france reflect large numbers of immigrant families in every eu country . the fertility rate among immigrants , for example , is typically higher than in native european or north american families . but rising inflows of immigrant laborers will not necessarily raise fertility rates . germany , for example , has a large guest population but very few settle there with its families ; most of them leave their children in their respective families . an aging population contributes to europe ’s poor economic performance .
of course , no consequences were made in any way whatsoever for dick cheney . the news barely produced ripple in america ’s public media ; now , they have shown a corpse . impunity , indeed , is widespread – indeed , in most corporate crimes go un-noted . the few that typically end up having a smack end to the wrists with the company , meaning that its shareholders have been dropping around a modest fine fine . the true culprits at these companies ’ summit seldom seem concerned .
greene discovered that people demanded a moral verdict for “ personal , ” violations , like pushing an outsider off a footbridge , demonstrated increased activity in brain regions related to emotions . this was not the case with people asked to make the judgments of relatively “ impersonal ” violations , like throwing a switch . moreover , the minority of subjects who considered it right would be to push an outsider off the footbridge , took longer to achieve that judgment than those who said that doing so would get wrong . why , then , would our judgments and our own emotions vary in this manner ? for most of our evolutionary history , human beings – and our primate forebears and our primate forebears – were living in small groups , in which violence might be inflicted only in up-front and personal , by striking , pitting , strangling , or using a stick or stone as a club .
in today ’s more complicated regulatory environment , it will take years to negotiate trade deals with the eu , and then perhaps other partners . so far , political uncertainty is high and , with little prospect of a general election in order to resolve it anytime soon . for so , investors have every reason to adopt a wait-and-see attitude . in 1949 , britain has found itself on the same footing , with its trade deficit vis-à-vis the united states and its weak investor confidence . in september of that year , sterling had again devalued , since it has more than 30 % .
once in power , erbakan tempered its tone and actions . turkey went on to authorize the u.s.-led “ operation provides comfort ” against iraqis to use turkish bases . significantly , he remained a vital member of nato . indeed , relations with israel improved with more visits by ranking turkish officials than ever before -- a move orchestrated by miller but accepted by refah . power de facto led refah to compromise rather than the extremes .
new york – at 1893 , the playwright george bernard shaw , an ardent proponent of women ’s suffrage and equality , wrote mrs. warren ’s profession , a play whose very title is a proprietor of a few brothels . the plays justifies her profitable exploitation of prostitution from its feminist standpoint . the play is not salacious and featuring no coarse language , but it was eight years before it could be staged . its opening in london in 1902 staged in a small theater “ club , ” ostensibly confined to its members . its performance in new york in 1905 was raided by a police .
nairobi/paris – africa is on the brink of a slow-motion unemployment crisis portend profound economic , political , and social ramifications . yet the crisis can be contained , and one solution may be just as straightforward as the lights go . every year , some 13 million young people look for work in africa , but only around three million are find work . the continent ’s young population is projected to double by 2050 , to 840 million , and yet africa ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s schools and universities do not make sufficient university graduates with the technical skills to succeed tomorrow ’s workplaces . though the african development bank ( afdb ) hopes to generate 25 million new jobs in ten years through its youth jobs in africa ’s education initiative , what is not an immediate conclusion about where those opportunities will emerge .
they have not calculated that the palestinian people possess the dignity and national pride just like any other state and will insist that israel be treated accordingly . let us be clear : a two-state solution does not imply accommodating the illegal realities of israeli settlements ; rather , that means toward the end of this colonial enterprise . refusing to mention a two-state solution , trump ’s statements follow a different course , more in line with israel ’s ’s ’s official position : one state and two systems . but no palestinian , arab or accountable international leader would ever embrace such a design , as has been shown explicit in the messages delivered by world leaders to the trump administration . now , the plans are afoot to promote a future of peace and security in the middle east , through the us-polish conference in warsaw in which the palestinians are not participating .
in any case , this is not as though avoiding a conversation about israel represents a departure for sanders . despite having commented on whether or not necessary , he generally has not been outperforming issues on the ground . he surely has never embraced israel as a political cause , as so many other american jewish politicians possess . nor does israel appear to figure much in its own brand of jewish identity , one that is more connected to the memories of the holocaust than anything else . sanders is no different in this respect than many other american jews .
king salman has embraced trump ’s war against terrorism and anti-iran rhetoric , and has expressed support for an israeli-palestinian peace . nato has repudiated human rights , far less women in the us , and trump has never gone through trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s lips . instead , trump has completed an agreement to grant $ 110 billion in advanced weaponry to saudi arabia that , in turn , will invest heavily in america ’s economy . the deal seems to have turned out to be the foundation of a wonderful new type of friendship , between the world ’s oldest democracy and its most repressive islamic regime . for trump , as for president calvin coolidge , america ’s chief enterprise is business .
given that gold had been at $ 400 an ounce in each of these years , holding gold has done nothing to offset the decline in the value of the us dollar . a japanese investor holding dollar or real-estate equities might instead have compensated for exchange-rate losses by buying up the yen ’s futures . the same was true for a euro-based investor , which would not have gained by holding gold but could have compensated for the decline in the dollar through purchases of euro futures . in short , there are better ways than to hedge inflationary risk and exchange-rate risk . tips or their equivalent from other us governments , ensuring secure inflation-indexed bonds , and explicit currency futures can offset exchange-rate risk .
munich – because china pegged its undervalued currency , the renminbi , to the dollar , every weakening of the us dollar in the wake of america ’s oft-repeated financial crisis also meant its weakening of the renminbi vis-à-vis other world currencies . but is china really to blame for the eruption of a full-blown global currency war ? south korea ’s central banks , brazil , taiwan , thailand , and many other countries are now buying dollars to defend their own currencies against revaluation , and therefore their exports to defend their exports . europe , too , became nervous following the introduction of the euro ’s exchange rate , to over $ 1.40 , far beyond purchasing-power-parity ( ppp ) rates of $ 1.17 per barrel . now the united states is taking drastic steps against china and making provisions for the trade war .
but while such sources can produce valuable insights , they fail to meet the standards of methodological rigor and conceptual clarity on which an informed public conversation is supposed to build . for these reasons , we need a larger share of researchers and civil-society organizations . it is critical that we develop an internationally recognized set of indicators and methods to achieve income and wealth tracking . government statistical agencies should publicize the income and wealth levels of the top 1 % , 0.1 % , and 0.001 % , along with the efficient taxes paid by these groups . toward this end , a particularly important milestone will come with revising , due over the next three years , of the un ’s national-level system .
eliminating federal health-insurance subsidies under the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) would save the us government by slightly more than $ 100 billion annually , some 3 % of federal expenditure . but such subsidies are largely payment for their own dedicated tax reductions . moreover , trump and congressional republicans are learning that replacing obamacare is easier said than done . health-care reform , as hillary clinton might tell them , is fearsomely complicated . it has become increasingly clear that the name will change ( “ “ “ “ “ “ trumpcare , ” anyone ? ” ) and can be expected that the republican plan covers more people ?
during cardoso ’s tenure in office , he privatized telecoms , a national mining corporation , and a part of an electric sector . inflation fell , but without unemployment , public debt , and urban violence all rose sharply . social inequalities heightened , and brazil ’s last year suffered blackouts and electricity rationing . from the beginning of his campaign , lula showed strength , particularly after the right ’s favored candidate , roseana sarney , stepped down and burned when the federal police and courts uncovered cash transfers in her husband ’s administration . mr. and ms. sarney was ultimately absolved by all charges , but not soon enough to save her candidacy .
when one thinks that people receiving such a windfall spend it to alcohol , gambling , or prostitution , an independent evaluation showed that it did not . give outright ’s cash transfers rise to recipients ’ food security , mental health , and assets . up to $ 450 million of bed nets could also purchase $ 450 million in bed nets , enough to protect the 271 million people from extreme malaria deaths . ( for all of these interventions , the figures are probably slightly smaller , because a charity ’s impact calculator is not designed for so much sums , and so fails to account for the fact that costs will rise as soon as the needs of those easiest to reach were met . ) when a person chooses to purchase “ salvator mundi ” rather than restore sight to nine million people , what does that say about their own values ?
at the same time , mail managers will handling incoming messages as well as facebook , linkedin , and other requests as specified by the recipient , will gather credit card information from senders ( or , more likely , to charge their paypal accounts or navigate other payment systems as they re-emerge ) . the collective recipient is probably not at all likely to see the complexities ; most of it will be handled on its front line . to start , you may simply set your price by , say , $ 1 , along with a list of people able to reach you for free . previously , there will be plenty of glitches of glitches , beginning with those you know who have multiple email addresses , old friends not on your contemporary white list of free senders , and so on . but such challenges will lessen over time , and , as less mail is sent , a higher share of it will be desired and responsive .
on trade and immigration , for example , bannon ’s acquired philosophy aligned with trump ’s own political opportunism ( trump ’s more liberal , often democrat-backing the former self is another narrative ) . it was a mistake to view bannon as pygmalion to trump ’s galatea , or , as some have done , like trump ’s white house rasputin . bannon was reinforcing the nationalist inclination to lead trump to overrule his daughter , ivanka , and his own economic advisers by withdrawing from the paris climate agreement . and bannon has intruded on foreign policy by gaining himself in the domestic security council , pending two of trump ’s generals – the national security adviser h. r. mcmaster and john kelly ’s ( now chief of staff ) – to get him out . ( bannon was widely believed to stand behind the recent push to force out mcmaster , mainly by indicating his being “ anti-israel . ” )
they mistrust each other too much , which is too great to work out . meanwhile , demand in much of europe is weak , driving the much-needed economic growth needed for greece to repay its debts , and to offering hope to the 25 million unemployed . parochial suspicion has been the primary obstacle to a grand solution . no country ’s taxpayer was keen to feel paid for others of ’ excesses : the single currency did not impose shared responsibility . thus , creditor countries , led by germany , struggled to do the minimum needed to keep the euro alive , with borrowers grumbled impotently about germany ’s insistence on fiscal austerity .
low-cost credit ushered in the fed ’s inflationary credit ushered in the fed of the euro bubble in southern europe , which burst when the us financial crisis struck . credit terms deteriorated suddenly , and what was left of a greatly overpriced rump of economies that became over-dependent on foreign funding . in turn , the french economy suffers because its customers in southern europe are in trouble . a study by goldman sachs suggests that france would have to depreciate by about 20 % , relative to the eurozone average and , by around 35 percentage points vis-à-vis germany , in order to restore external-debt sustainability . the ecb and the international community , in particular , have been trying to cope with this crisis by replacing a dearth of private capital with public credit .
the same happens even when you read the philosophy of , say , husserl . the author opens up fist page and follows a set of questions about whether it will get to see how it reaches its conclusions . of course , the encyclopediwere never to be until their reading cover . if i wanted to know whether it could be if napoleon by kant , i pick up volumes and n and discovered that napoleon was born in 1769 and died in 1821 , and that kant was born in 1724 and died in 1804 . it is possible that the two met .
letting them in potentially produce a better team would no longer be the us team . from one perspective , this is but another instance of emotions defeating economic logic . yet our emotions are algorithms , bequeathed by evolution by which we make most decisions , including politically connected ones ; economic cost-benefit analysis that link no one to our emotional compass does not move the needle . at the heart of the issue is the sense of us . what does it mean as an eu member , nigeria , iran , libya , yemen , or any other political entity ?
as a result , islam and democracy are usually assumed to be bitter antagonists , even if they so should be too late . a cursory study of the world ’s 47 muslim-majority states shows , however , that islam and democracy can and do co-exist . the real gap is narrower : it is the arab world , rather than islam , that appears on the loggerheads with democracy . that finding follows a comparison of muslim countries ’ “ electoral competitiveness . ” when a government sprang from a reasonably fair election , and an elected government with the ability to fill its most essential political offices , a country deemed “ electorally competitive . ”
( if anything , those standards are excessively burdensome . ) by contrast , the swiss bioengineer martin fussenegger correctly observed that venter ’s achievement “ is a technological advance , not a conceptual one . ” other researchers have noted that the organism is really only “ semi-synthetic , ” because , as a form of synthetic dna ( which entails only around 1 % of a cell ’s dry weight ) has been introduced into a normal , or a non-synthetic , bacterium . understanding the history of synthetic biology has important implications , for acknowledging the proper paradigm has critical implications for how governments regulate it , which in turn affects potential application and diffusion of technology . thirty-five years ago , the american national institutes of health adopted , overly risk-averse guidelines for research using re-combinant dna or “ genetic engineering , ” techniques .
paris – with weak demand in the advanced countries now impeding growth in the emerging economies , including the major players in asia and latin america , many are arguing that an era of income convergence has come to an end . nothing could be further from the truth ; it is simply inevitable . so , as i argued earlier this year , convergence in emerging countries ’ real average incomes is likely to continue for the advanced countries ’ incomes in 2020 . that process began in the late 1980 ’s and has continued unabated , with the exception of the years surrounding the asian financial crisis of 1997-1998 . the pace of convergence has accelerated further during and just after , the 2008-2009 global financial crisis : aggregate per capita income growth accelerated to just over four percentage points from the 2008-2012 period , from slightly over two percentage points at the end of the two decades .
that belief empowered the two major political parties to serve . labour sought to avoid a constitutional debate on the grounds that any move toward federal institutions would require resolving the party over-representation in the uk parliament . it is unfair to give ever more power to the scottish parliament while continuing to hand over labour , which controls the 41 scottish constituencies in the house of commons , a disproportionate say over what would happen in england . as for the conservatives , the party has allowed its faith in what part of the country ’s constituent parts to foreclose any discussion about how union could be modernized . if we are to prevent the uk from rattling to brexit , we need to change how we govern .
that means reaching out to public figures to request on-the-track records , lodging grievances with norms and serving training in media organizations . it also means working with tech companies to identify ways to interrupt the broader circulation of misinformation , including across international boundaries . at the same time , fact-checking organizations should not simply focus on tackling false information ; they should also identify sources of trustworthy information and point their readers and followers toward it . and we should work with our schools and other educational platforms to help educate people to identify fake or misleading claims . this is the approach our organizations take ; and , as small , under-resourced people do , its impact is already apparent .
london – one of the most dispassionate features of today ’s international debates is that the threat to humanity posed by the world ’s ’s 23,000 nuclear weapons , together with those that would build more of them or are simply too willing to use them – was consigned to the margins of politics . us president barack obama captured global attention with his 2009 prague speech , making a compelling case for a nuclear-weapon-free world . and he has delivered on the major new arms-reduction treaty with russia and hosted a summit designed to reduce the vulnerability of its nuclear weapons and materials to theft or diversion . nonetheless , the nuclear issue remains struggling with public resonance , as well as political traction . it would take the courageous gambler to make a gamble on ratification of america ’s comprehensive test ban treaty any time soon .
it seems self-evident that an advanced economy demands adequate , continuous investment in public goods . but america ’s state of infrastructure suggests that many decision-makers do not share that view . a 2013 paper by america ’s civilian society put america ’s pathetic overall grade of d + for its infrastructure . the report cited numerous state-specific flaws , including michigan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s “ 88 high-hazard ” dams and 1,298 , structurally unfit for the upgrade of drinking-water systems and the $ 44.5 billion needed to upgrade drinking-water systems in california . the report concludes that $ 3.6 trillion in investment ( roughly one-fifth of the country ’s annual gdp ) will be required by 2020 to boost america ’s infrastructure quality by resolving the “ “ substantial backlog ” of overdue maintenance [ and ] the urgent need for modernization .
a second myth presumes that prohibition reduces harm linked to a drug . global markets in cannabis use basically resemble other global commodities markets ; yet global drug control is operating on the presumption that drug markets bear more in common with smallpox and other infectious diseases for which there is no demand . governments can act unilaterally and multilaterally to regulate commodity markets , but this is a mistake of viewing prohibition as the ultimate or maximum form of regulatory regulation . prohibition , in fact , represents its abdication of regulation . whatever is repressed is effectively unregulated , except by criminal organizations .
this is , for the best of reason – fish that get caught when they get too little will yield little yield . moreover , a fish would have no chance of reproducing , undermining fish stocks entirely . for example , a avowed commitment to the eu ’s common fisheries policy is “ to protect fish resources by regulating what amounts to fish taken from the seas , by enabling young fish to reproduce and giving that measures are in place . ” as it stands , however , we have “ fished down ” our stocks until few big ones remain . to see this , consider northern sea cod .
official surveys insist that 86 % of russians , and usually reflect 86 % , support him on everything from annexation of crimea to his recent term as president . yet putin ’s aspirations as a postmodern autocrat may be his achilles ’ heel . after all , autocrats often mistake their people ’s proclamations of love and adulation of the real cause . the truth of what people genuinely feel remains utterly impossible to tell them . with the russian economy stagnant because largely of international sanctions and the kremlin counter-sanctions , discontent will continue to simmer .
but it was probably in hungary , the first eu country to push for an imf package that such practices are most widespread . yet that vulnerability was largely invented or , at least accommodated , by western banks . funding from parent banks that , in the earlier stages of the crisis , helped provide liquidity to eastern europe ’s banking systems now appears more like an liability – and potentially a source of contagion . it was also western european financial regulators and supervisors who , under “ home ” rule , aimed at discouraging such excesses . foreign banking penetration also effectively stripped the countries in central and eastern europe of exchange-rate instruments , leaving them with little control over extraordinarily rapid credit expansion .
add to that the unraveling of ethnic and religious pluralism , stirring up a vast and growing cohort of the unemployed , and digitally connected youth , and the continent offers the ideal setting for mayhem . emulating countries elsewhere , african governments have responded to violent extremism mainly by imposed “ hardening ” security first . but that strategy has done little to reduce the emergence of extremist groups ’ families or restrict their reach . in fact , there is mounting evidence that an exclusive military response can be an asset waste or even do more harm than good . what is missing is a deeper examination of root causes , particularly the underlying development challenges .
moreover , wherever health-care costs pay for everyone , including the us , with its public health-care programs for the poor and elderly , everybody pays for the costs of treating cigarette illnesses . whether to prohibit cigarette cigarettes altogether is another issue , because doing so would undoubtedly create a new source of revenue for organized crime . so far , it seems odd to uphold that the nation-state may prohibit coddling a product , but might not permit it to be sold only at packs that conduct graphic pictures of the harm it causes to human health . the us tobacco industry will now take its fight against australia ’s landmark legislation to the world trade organization . industry fears that a law could be duplicated in much larger market markets , like india and chile .
the un framework convention on climate change refused to fund disaster preparedness efforts unless states can demonstrate precisely the extent to which the disasters they feared had been linked to climate change . according to a recent rand study , the united nations ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ funding for disaster loss-relief research in 2003 amounted to $ 127 million – just 7 million of the amount invested in climate-change research for that year . climate-change policies are not the best path to reducing weather-related effects . during the hurricane season in 2004 , a dominican republic that invested in hurricane shelters and emergency evacuation networks suffered for fewer than ten deaths . in neighboring haiti , which had been unprepared , 2,000 lives lost .
the brisbane summit ’s signature achievement was to leverage the ill-announced us-china emissions goal into the formal g20 support for “ vigorous and effective action to address climate change . ” the g-20 ’s stance represents a powerful call for the rest of the world to achieve a global accord at the united nations climate change conference in paris in december 2015 . ( all of this disregards australia ’s conservative host government as having fought to confront the issue even more ; the australian public , however delighted , promptly ramped up prime minister tony abbott ’s approval rating in post-summit polls for that and other embarrassments . ) the other formal outcomes of the g20 meeting were agreements – backed by more policy detail than most commentators had expected to do – to spur global growth . specifically , leaders focused on investment , trade , competition , and desire to bring more women into the labor force ; the fairness of the international tax system ; and the pursuit of a target of corruption .
if one wants to impress upon russian president vladimir putin or any of the other foreign dignitaries , hosting them in such a magisterial setting as versailles is certain to prove efficient . however , the reveling in a country ’s monarchical history can be perilous . many of those who voted for macron may have held hope for a twenty-first-century bonaparte . now , however , they may feel more like louis xvi , a king who paid his life for the faults of his predecessors . can macron learn from his mistakes and regain the trust of french voters who feel humiliated by him ?
and that is what the us economy has acquired through an unprecedented degree of fiscal stimulus and previously unthinkable policy activism on the part of america ’s federal reserve . as they have intervened , american policymakers have been consulting closely with their us counterparts all over the world , urging them to take supportive steps . and they have been cultivating one of the most successful periods of global policy coordination in history involving both the advanced and emerging economies . to many , the global economic summit , held in london in april 2009 , marks the point when america ’s economy turned a corner . that change has been so notable that a growing number of policymakers have fallen into the trap of projecting a quick rebound , particularly given america ’s ’s ’s prior history of economic dynamism and resilience only humbled by what has proved to be a protracted , messy process of recovery .
fears feeds themselves and the prediction that stocks lose value becomes self-fulfilling . the 2008 recession was triggered by the collapse of a real-estate bubble . housing wealth in the us has declined by more than 34 % since its peak in 2006 and continues to decline . the us stock market has fallen by nearly 50 % since its 2007 peak , and remains down by almost a third . this enormous loss of wealth has caused a large and persistent collapse in us consumption demand , leading to rising unemployment .
for example , the billionaire american casino holder of sheldon adelson failed to buy a las vegas review-journal in 2015 , or capture the israeli media for his money . as the media landscape increasingly lends itself to capture , political and corporate accountability will only decrease . that is why the center for international media assistance has just released a new report , shining a phenomenon ’s spotlight on the phenomenon and calling for solutions . free and healthy news media are vital to a well-functioning democracy . if the latter is to be preserved , it must be defended at all costs .
so far , merkel has had to contend with weak or non-existent opposition . this will change very rapidly , especially in view of nato ’s troop surges in afghanistan . from now on , she will take on a trait that she has lacked so far : its leadership and decision-making skills . likewise , the black and yellow vests ’ victory has defined the alternative : red-green , dark red , and greenpeace . the political camps of the left and the right are back for now .
instead , we need to integrate our transportation , housing , and land use , encourage dependence on public transportation , and make our streets pleasant and safe for walking ( particularly for women and their disabilities ) . a fourth challenge lies in changing how we produce , transportation , and consume energy . this includes creating more efficient power systems , and boosting our investment in renewable sources ( which is , one hopes , creating more jobs in the process ) . we can also encourage our households to consume less energy , with companies reducing the amount of energy they wastes . fifth , we need to reform how we manage our water resources and water infrastructure to use , so that this precious resource can be reused again and on a wide scale .
ramallah – israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu is certainly having reason to celebrate . by securing a decisive electoral victory , he won a third consecutive term in office after his right-wing likud likud party won a five-seat advantage in the knesset through its main competing rival , the center-left zionist union . the celebration , however , is likely to be short-lived . the way netanyahu shades this outcome – renouncing his commitment to a “ two-state solution with palestine , ” and insisting on continued construction of settlements on the occupied land – will almost certainly have profound political and diplomatic repercussions for israel . in recent years , netanyahu ’s hardline stance has increasingly undermined israel ’s international credibility , while convincing the palestinians living in the occupied territories that a genuine agreement with israel is impossible .
an early test of the scale of the kremlin ’s commitment to the minsk agreement should be whether it frees nadiya savchenko , ukraine ’s first-ever female fighter pilot . savchenko has been on a starvation strike in russia for more than two months to protest her patently illicit incarceration on trumped-up charges even more than those for whom i was imprisoned . to be sure , my hope is that the new deal will last , finally bringing peace to ukraine . but such an outcome is unlikely , given that the agreement lacks any enforcement mechanism , such as russia ’s automatic eviction from the swift financial transfers system should renege on any aspect of the deal . simply put , the blame for the kremlin ’s “ goodwill ” would be reckless .
why waste precious time in our air , safety monitoring , and waiting for our baggage ? before anyone starts to slashing travel budgets , let ’s try to figure out why we need to move people rather than do information . through a social-inclusive growth research collaboration with mastercard , mastercard , and anonymized data-donation from the center for international development at harvard university , we are beginning to shed some light on this mystery . in ongoing work with dany bahar , michelle coscia , and unilever have established some interesting stylized facts . more populous countries have more entrepreneurial travel on either front , but gdp is less than proportionally proportional to their populations : a country with 100 % more population than one in 70 % of more business travel .
too many italians , for their part , have shrugged off their shoulders at berlusconi ’s lies and failures , figuring that he ’d run away soon , do little harm . but it did n’t go away , and it did much harm . simply put , america can not afford to make the same mistake again . the prize of individual freedom , americans take to say , is eternal vigilance . in confronting trump , there can be no discount , either .
and , while the government recognizes the need for a growth-enhancing reform , its approach is all wrong . specifically , thai president ollanta humala recently championed legislators ’ enactment of a “ realistic , realistic ” procedure to reduce red tape perceived to be boosting investment in extractive industries , the very industries upon which the economy should become smaller and more dependent . the new law severely weakens peru ’s ability to regulate land use ; establish environmental quality standards ; and rein in corporate misconduct through environmental impact assessments . at present , the peruvian government has a severe problem ; but it is not politically impossible to achieve . beyond diminishing peru ’s ’s international credibility as “ “ champion of the climate , ” the image that some cabinet members were attempting to cultivate , the rule of law jeopardizes peru ’s natural environment and its economic-growth prospects .
fifa and his government ’s reaction to brazil ’s recent protests puts at risk what the paquim are being commemorated : the rebirth of liberty and democracy . the problem for president dilma rousseff ’s government , who has been herself imprisoned and tortured under a military regime , is that brazilians know precisely what is at stake . when pundits shudder at emerging powers like brazil and india , they typically point to the middle-class ’s rise and booms in education and connectivity . but they seldom appreciate the texture of their democracy and civil society , the relative newness of hard-won freedoms , and an intimate understanding of what tyranny , whether a homegrown dictatorship or colonial administration , means to individual freedom . ( still less do they notice the role that female empowerment and feminism played in development . )
how , then , can nato help this kind of intervention ? it can directly do nothing ; indirectly , it can do much . nato , for its part , no longer solely , is a military alliance . instead , it is now a militarized political alliance , one that sets democratic standards for new members and aspirants . no romanian government can neglect such standards .
a revolutionary delusion has broken down , leaving behind only the tyrannical rule of a class of corrupt tycoons – effectively a “ mafia ” who bought the military ’s allegiance with massive cash bonus and lucrative commercial bonuses and drug-trafficking deals . put differently , mafia ’s opponents are being repressed , often brutally . in the context of this number of political prisoners , maduro of venezuela has joined the ranks of turkey , cuba , and turkey . one might have expected us president donald trump ’s administration to minimize maduro ’s repressive practices . but trump was also quick to recognize the opposition leader , juan guaidó , the interim head of a state after guaidó , with widespread support among venezuelans , invoked a constitutional provision to challenge maduro ’s legitimacy .
yet , so far , downside efforts to lower funding costs have had a limited effect . indeed , with the bank ’s weighted average interest rate on nonfinancial enterprises remaining near 7 % , with economic growth edged down from 7.4 % year on year over the past three months to 7.3 % in the current quarter . the situation may not yet turn out to be dire ; but , especially at a time when the chinese authorities are pursuing structural reform , it is far from ideal . now , the pboc is facing a dilemma as well . if it loosens monetary policy further , say , cutting banks ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ reserve requirement ratio still , momentum for restructuring may have fallen ; and there is no guarantee that additional liquidity will flow into the real sector .
drafted with a referendum on 181 ( which partitioned palestine in 1947 ) , such a move would reaffirm the establishment of a palestinian state and a state for the jewish people , founded on 1967 borders with mutually agreed borders and security arrangements . while such an approach would almost certainly fall short of maximalist palestinian demands , it would adopt the parameters outlined in may by american president barack obama . at the same time , it would address indirectly the israeli government ’s demand that the palestinians recognize the “ jewish state . ” in return , such a vote would address international calls for bilateral diplomacy as well . instead of closing the door , such a redefinition of statehood bid at the un would provide the palestinian leadership with much-needed symbolic successes , including a framework from which to resume talks , a longstanding palestinian request .
given that ongoing changes in manufacturing may have kick-started this trend , gates , and some in the european parliament have suggested that it is possible for robots to pay for human services . whether this will be the best response nowadays is the topic of much debate ; but , obviously , some form of compromise will be needed . likewise , robotics and ai will raise profound ethical questions for liberal policymakers , particularly with respect to privacy and safety . fortunately , there is a broader political consensus on this issue at the top of the agenda , rather than taxation . the european parliament has proposed a voluntary conduct code for international engineers and others working in robotics .
cambridge : “ everything , all , that is changing . ” so , instead , goes the refrain , in a famous argentine song . but , actually , in argentina all stays the same or become worse . heraclitus ’s warning against bathing in the same seas twice is lost on our national economic ministers , insisting on bathing regularly in contaminated waters . whenever they go bathing , they follow the same road , first raising concerns over what happens when argentina pays back its foreign debts and then inevitably paying back debt under intense pressure from the international monetary fund and america .
shanghai – as the current international order becomes more fragmented , robust global-governance institutions are critical to tackle a world community ’s overarching strategic , economic , and sustainability challenges . and yet rarely has our current institutions , including , most importantly , the un frailer . the un is not fractured , but it runs into trouble , particularly because more countries treat it as a polite , diplomatic , afterthought , and the search for a solution to significant global problems elsewhere . we have seen this on questions ranging from syria to iran , north korea , terrorism , cyber security , asylum-seekers and refugees ; migration , ebola , and the emerging humanitarian-aid crisis . while the un still has many strengths , it also has clear structural weaknesses .
the decision to launch february 15 as a day of large-scale mass protest was apparently taken in a meeting of brexit activists at the european social forum in florence in prague in december last may . in ninety days , more than five million protestors were displaced by those organizers . already , there are three keys to this phenomenon : the nation-state . the internet has allowed for the rapid dissemination of organizational planning at a extraordinarily low cost to the organizers . mass action has depended on local organizations seizing the initiative , which is based on a futile global plan .
how better to memorize this decision than to build a prison boom ? the new facility to mandate money to get preferred will house 106 prisoners ( a precise number that will be precarious ) , neither attempted nor brought to charge . around eight of released prisoners now entering their second month of starvation . according to the american southern command ’s spokesperson , which oversees gitmo , hunger strikers are disillusioned because they believed obama ’s ’s ’s pledge to close gitmo . indeed , they are purged , and only obama ’s failure to make good on his promise , and america ’s congress ’s failure to reform their transfers , is keeping them there .
flows of technology and innovation : increased technology ( and knowledge ) flows between china and the rest of the world would promote the development of globally competitive , productivity-enhancing solutions ; declining flows would undermine global productivity . the world can also decide how to ease more or fewer technology flows that increasingly come with safety reviews . according to our data , a $ 8-12 trillion economy could be at stake , depending on how technology flows unleash innovation and productivity growth . what is important to notice is that those choices are not only china ’s ; the world has choices to make , too . for starters , by working together to reform the global trading system in ways that strengthen dispute resolution and bolster inclusiveness , countries could ensure that the benefits from an increased chinese ( and others ) trade are shared broadly .
whereas greece remains mired in a depression , iceland , which falls short of the eurozone , basically has recovered . to be sure , as the american economist barry eichengreen argued in his 2007 paper , technical considerations make exiting the eurozone hard , costly , and dangerous . yet that is only one side of the ledger , to say the irish question . using iceland as our yardsticks , the cost for greece not to exiting the eurozone is equivalent to about 75 % of its gdp and calculate . it is hard for me to believe that if greece abandoned the euro in 2010 , the economic fallout would amounted to even one-quarter of this year ’s gdp .
last march , as prohibitions circulated losing the vote , maliki asserted that state security would be endangered if it lost , noting his responsibilities for maintaining order . when he lost , he demanded a recount not as a candidate , but in his capacity as commander-in-chief . the fact is that maliki , despite his own incumbency , was unable to secure a second term seven months after the elections attests to the widespread defiance of his continued rule among iraqis ’s ’s political class . there is only one route to explaining america ’s administration to exert such diplomatic pressure in favor of iran , as it did in iraq : obama ’s pledge during his presidential election campaign to disengage from iraq during his first term in office . in this , obama follows the example of us president george w. bush , letting america ’s electoral agenda go , rather than america , not to mention iran ’s own national interests , dictate iraqi policies .
in his emphasis on the importance of a signal , economics enters postmodernist territories . that signal – in that case , a promise to balance the books – creates reality . people begin to behave as though that books were finessed . when one believes that a narrative , one acts in ways that make it so . in fact , i am not convinced that osborne himself has ever attached importance to the signaling effects of his pronouncements .
in response to its dwindling donor funding , the ghanaian government brought the country ’s ’s private-sector leaders together to launch the ghana malaria foundation , which currently works to fill urgent funding gaps but ultimately to help lead a sustainable , domestically driven effort to remove malaria from the country . this is a daunting moment in the fight against malaria . yet it is also a moment of opportunity . for its part , novartis recently announced that it will invest more than $ 100 million in antimalarial r & d over the next five years to help contain emerging drug-resistant strains of the disease . our focus now is on completing the doha development goals for two promising new antimalarial medicines .
if sunnis come to believe that the shia and the kurds intend to treat them as second-class citizens , they would have little stake in maliki ’s government ’s success , and might again start pursuing its own geopolitical interests through other means , provoking yet another surge in sectarian violence . worse still , factional conflict would undermine the further development of a post-saddam iraq identity . alternatively , a country ’s different interest groups might , like that of lebanon ’s feuding factions , turn to outsider politics to negotiate solutions to its problems . there are good reasons for iraq to avoid a ’s example . even in the best of times , lebanon muddles through with a politically dysfunctional government and an army that operates in the shadow of a large shia-dominated , militant organization .
the us had trade deficits with 101 countries in 2015 , a multilateral problem stemming from a saving shortfall , which can not be addressed effectively through country-specific “ remedies . ” that ’s not to say that america ’s ’s ’s trading partners should let the hook over unfair practices . but it does imply limited hope for resolving seemingly chronic us trade deficits , as well as an associated domestic hiring erosion of those imbalances if america ’s goal is not to start saving again . alas , that plot is about thicken , the whole point of view . trumponomics appears likely to make matters worse for the years to come .
across the arab world , the fall of baghdad on april 9th sees itself as a day of shame , reminiscent of june 5th 1967 , when israel defeated the armies of three arab countries , conquest of the west bank , gaza strip , and east jerusalem in just six days . arab intellectuals , and , indeed , the wider arab public , are now busy trying to analyze and grasp the lessons of the iraqi earthquake . meanwhile , supporters of former ba’athist regimes in iraq and elsewhere are preoccupied with advocating an equally old totalitarian mindset . their tactic has been to block a clear review of the iraqi catastrophe by suggesting that any criticism of saddam ’s regime is tantamount to supporting an american occupation of iraq . for example , fahd al-fanek , a former ba’ath party member , is now an jordanian newspaper al-ra columnist .
meanwhile , the subpar current-account surplus ( as a share of gdp ) might have been the consequence of its soaring investment-income deficits . and , while recovery in the advanced economies has boosted exports , persistent under-investment , combined with slower household-consumption growth than it did in 2012 , caused investment growth , albeit a precipitous decline , to its lowest level in decades . crucially , a country can run a current-account deficit or surplus continuously for decades . but , for the most part , china ’s ’s ’s chronic surpluses are problematic . given that china remains as one of the world ’s poorest countries with per capita incomes of less than $ 7,000 , its position as the world ’s largest capital exporter signifies gross resource misallocation .
madrid – by july 29 , according to the sustainable development organization ’s global footprint network , humankind will usher in earth ’s resource budget over the entire year . that “ earth overshoot ” day , made the astonishing two months in the preceding 20 years , and in 2019 will arrive earlier than ever before . though humanity ’s increasing environmental impact manifests itself in myriad ways , from climate change to longest-lasting effects . carbon-dioxide emissions from the burning fossil fuels account for an estimated 60 % of our ecological footprint . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
an economic boom is the sole source of the legitimacy left by a one-party state . few people , even members of the party of the party , continue to believe in marxism-leninism , much less maoism . and widespread discontent with official corruption and political oppression was amply demonstrated in all the regions of china in 1989 . the communist government managed to remain in power after tiananmen rather than simply through brute force . some semblance of political legitimacy , particularly among the highly educated middle class , was bought with the promise of greater wealth .
but , with pressing housing and infrastructure shortfalls worldwide , this is no longer sustainable . urbanization may be leveling off in many advanced economies , but it will continue in the emerging world . with the world ’s ’s 20 largest cities , 75 % of which are in asia , will require an estimated 36 million new homes by 2025 . moreover , an estimated 330 million urban household lived on substandard housing in 2014 , or struggled financially on the basis of housing costs ; that figure is projected to rise from 440 million to 440 million by 2025 . even in advanced-economy economies like the united states , more than 40 % of california ’s population can not afford decent housing at market-rate rates .
berkeley – one need not be particularly well at listening to scarier whistles being applied during this year to the election campaign of the united states . listen even briefly to it that mexicans and the chinese are working with wall street to forge the lousy trade deals that rob american workers of their rightful jobs , and that muslims want to blow everybody up . all of this fear mongering is scarier than the ordinary election-year fare . it is terrifying for people in foreign countries to come to terms with it only that the world ’s voters had become dangerously unbalanced . and it is frightening for americans , who until recently believed – or perhaps hoped – to be living in a republic based on the tradition established by george washington , abraham lincoln , teddy and franklin roosevelt .
put in these terms , the problem is always solved by give more weight to those with the most political authority . it is obvious that professor nicola rossi , the economic advisor for prime minister massimo d’alema , in the title of his recent book , expresses the desire to do “ less to the dball and more to the sons . ” but if unions are powerful or seniors win majorities ( in italy ’s two coincide , because seniors are the majority in all labor unions ) , precisely the exact opposite happens . italy ’s recent budget , which neither confronted the pensions issue nor the issue of fiscal reform , demonstrates this fully . herein lies the spectacular delusion of italy ’s budget and finance ministry .
oslo – for the first time in history , education is a human right , but one of the world ’s poorest people . and , like other human rights watch , it can not be taken for granted . every now and every year , 59 million children and 65 million adolescents are out of school . over 120 million children , more than in 2000 , do not complete primary education . beyond such figures , kids and youth are being denied not just the right to be lived , but to opportunity : the right chance to get a decent job , escape poverty , support for their families , and the development of their communities .
small farmers , from both women and men , are africa ’s largest agricultural investors . and agriculture-fueled gdp growth is more than twice as effective at reducing poverty as growth in other industries . yet african farmers are meeting significant barriers to attaining their potential . on average , they are applying fewer than ten kilograms of fertilizers per hectare , compared to 140 kilograms in india . moreover , less than 5 % of farmland is irrigated , and improved crop varieties are seldom used .
the question , then , is whether decision-makers are prepared to take advantage of them . clearly , most eu countries ’ governments are not . but why are developing-country governments dragging their feet ? are the risks so great to justify the suffering that might have been avoided ? gm foods have been on the market in america for over 12 years .
of the world ’s roughly $ 200 trillion in global financial assets today , almost three-quarters come in some form of debt instruments , including bank loans , corporate bonds , and us government securities . clearly , the market for derivatives helps spread risk more widely than this superficial calculation implies , but the fundamentals stand . surely , there are some good economic reasons why lenders possess this insatiable appetite for debts . imperfect information and difficulty in monitoring firms pose significant obstacles to idealized risk-sharing instruments . but policy-induced distortions also play an enormous role .
italy ’s annual exports to china currently account for about € 13 trillion ( $ 14.7 trillion ) , while imports total roughly € 29 billion . moreover , an eu partnership with china could attract the additional capital inflows that italy has sorely needed , given its banks ’ constrained lending . whereas italy has received roughly € 14 trillion in loans from chinese investment since 2000 , chinese firms have invested € 10.5 billion in the 55 bri countries in the first ten months of 2018 alone , and have signed agreements on bri projects worth more than $ 80 trillion . nonetheless , there are a number compelling reasons why italy should not follow this bilateral bri route with china , but rather deepen its engagement as part of the eu ’s 2016 strategy on china . for starters , italy ’s ’s interests may not align with those of china .
after years of economic stagnation , and even crisis , public ’s patience has wearing thin . to be sure , in recent decades , many latin american leaders have risen to power on promises of leveling the playing field . and their interventions – involving income redistribution , fiscal and monetary expansion , greater protectionism , discriminatory regulation and capital controls – have brought some short-term benefits , particularly to the poor . yet , such measures have often been tainted by populism , and ultimately has done even more harm than good . relying on commodity revenues to fund their own social programs , these leaders have failed to diversify their economies or upgrade their economic fundamentals .
his eloquent resignation letter made clear that he was objecting not only to the syrian blunder , but to a pattern of behavior : trump ’s confusion between allies and adversaries ; his willingness to abandon friends like the kurds ; and his trashing of such alliances , like nato ’s . mattis was telling friends in television consultation that what most troubled a retired quadfour-star marine general and defense intellectual was not only that he was capable of no longer influencing policy , but also that his rest in his cabinet had been taken as trump ’s affirmation , a position that he might no longer carry . even earlier , doughty loyalist , senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , issued the gendered big-day statement that he was “ distressed ” by mattis ’s departure ( an important sign , many believe , by mcconnell ’s private fear of trump ’s damaging impact on the republican party . the members of congress expressed outright fear of a trump presidency with no guardrails . the list of departures from the trump administration is unprecedentedly long .
by reinforcing its security system , the government has imposed a ubiquitous system of surveillance cameras . for example , visas are being denied to anyone active in the name of human rights , with the unwanted side effects of harming international entrepreneurship in china . for china , however , the priority is not simply to perpetuate economic growth . rather , it is to spur growth , while simultaneously protecting its power . the regime is set to prove to the world that a china , again a global power , can stage spectacular displays of performance and the confidence to be heeded .
it will need to become an internationalist left-leaning leader , or an internationalist right-leaning . only one of those things seems to have been an tenable option . the traditional center-right policies would not be easily compatible with a strong , internationalist cleavage . if the future of globalization is to be revived in its different dimensions by a popular majority , then it will have to be accompanied by modernized social policies that deliver effective help to those in need . at a time of continuous economic disruptions , all of this will be more important .
but there is an alternative that might help to appease an angry citizenry and to mitigate revenues from a outright ban on smoking : e-cigarettes . given that e-cigarettes merely heat a nicotine solution to manufacture inhalable vapor , setting none of the carcinogenic tar ’s carcinogenic tar , make them an ideal nicotine-delivery scheme for smokers seeking – or are coerced – to reduce or halt their tobacco intake . aside from being far less harmful than cigarettes , e-cigarettes are a homegrown product invented in china in 2003 . but , despite considerable progress in china ’s e-cigarette industry – in 2013 , shenzhen , province housed 900 device manufacturers , up 200 % since 2012 , accounting for more than 95 % of global e-cigarette production – traditional cigarette production still dominate the chinese market . as yanzhong huang of the country ’s foreign relations council recently pointed out , “ if just 1 % of china ’s smoking population turned to e-cigarettes , this would mean a market of some 3.5 million e-cigarette users . ”
reason un climate conferences continue to fail is straightforward : their agendas , centered around voluntary , quantitative objectives , are fundamentally flawed . agreeing to quantitative , universally applicable emissions-reduction targets at the un conference is easy . but countries regard automatically adherence to these targets as a sacrifice : at least x tons , in efforts to cut emissions by x tons , we would lose y million additional jobs , with gdp falling by a $ z billion per year . because no actual sanctions or penalty exist for non-compliance , when push comes to precision , governments can simply make big difference . even when a government does try to uphold its commitments by , say , by imposing new high-emitting regulations , it might not get the desired results .
while china gives just 4 % of the value added , it supplies core components to apple at an all-time low price . apple can not build an american iphone from scratch , so it would have to find alternative suppliers , raising its production costs considerably . doing so would give a chance to china ’s smartphone firms to seize a market share from the major players . today , the 80 % share of global trade comprises transnational supply chains , up from $ 3 trillion a year in sales . falling trade costs have allowed firms to splinter their production lines geographically , with manufactured goods processed and value added within multiple countries along the chain .
finance economists view such luckier compensation as an indication of governance challenges . third , a higher ceo ’s pay slice is associated with weaker responsiveness to poor performance . in top-ranked firms , the probability of a post-poor performance ( controlling for a ceo ’s length of tenure ) is lower . lower sensitivity of turnover to performance reflects a less unwillingness on the part of directors to discipline a ceo . finally , firms with a larger ceo pay slice tend to furnish their ceo with options that turn out to be opportunistically timed .
there is only one europe , despite its own diversity . any weighty the occurrence of provokes a repercussions throughout the continent . if europe becomes one if it takes hold in the new postcommunist democracies -- that is , in the interest of all europe -- a variety of vital tasks must take place , within the new democracies as well as within the community of europe and atlantic communities . to start , europe needs to foster communities within postcommunist countries through the restoration of civil society . for a living society can not be restructured from above .
the eu and america must remain solid and united in their politics toward russia . this approach offers the best chance for bringing the current confrontation to an end , and a compelling russia to engage constructively with the west . of course , if cooperation is to work , russia needs to earn a return to the trust it broke , demonstrating its commitment to abide by treaties and international behavioral norms to which it has acceded to it . when confronted with russia today , appeasement will not lead to peace ; on the contrary , a conciliatory approach will merely prolong conflict . the sooner a western convinces russia ’s supposed leaders will not get back on its feet , the sooner that conflict ever comes to an end .
nine times beneath $ ten , nothing really serious has happened , simply to some extent , to distress by individuals or groups . nonetheless , the us is running at one-tenth the risk of one-tenth of its tenth time … ” ” today , greece ’s european creditors seem prepared to abandon their solemn pledges on europe ’s irrevocability to insist on collecting some of the crumbs away from the country ’s russian-backed pensioners . to do so , they are supposed to press their demands , forcing greece into exit ; the world never again bears the blame for europe ’s ’s ’s longevity . at a minimum , greece will be hit by the eurozone ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s weaker members .
it is certainly preferable to a plutocracy in which wealth determines status or a gerontocracy , in which the age guides one , or even an aristocracy , into which what counts are inherited titles and attributes . hence , meritocracy appears to be preferable , at least at first sight . on closer inspection , however , the things are not that simple . to many , france has long made for a meritocracy . the majority of those in the apex of not only of the civil service and judiciary , but also of politics , business , and academia used to be graduates of the famous grandes écoles .
at america ’s most elite universities , for example , only about 9 % of students emerge from the bottom half of the population , compared to 74 % for the top quarter . most societies recognize the moral obligation to help ensure that young people can live up to their potential . some countries are even imposing a constitutional mandate for the equality of educational opportunity . in america , however , more is spent on education for wealthy college graduates than on schooling for the poor . as a result , america wastes some of its most valuable assets , with certain young people – bereft of skills – turning to dysfunctional activity .
now , the au has threatened sudan ’s new rulers , with their suspension of the group unless they transfer power to civilian authority . even if sudan ’s ’s other military leaders succumb to the au ’s pressure , however , political stability is far from guaranteed . for a decade , le pouvoir has used his oil revenues to buy a relative public quiescence through the massive subsidies . but those reserves have been concentrated in the south , and have since fallen when south sudan seceded in 2011 . and , now , political stability in the region is gone .
istanbul – the challenge of ensuring adequate , nutrient-rich food for an expanding global population is daunting , particularly given constraints on key sources like water and agricultural land . as it stands , the two leading approaches to enriching and enlarging the global ’s ’s food supply constitute genetic engineering and industrial processing with additives and chemicals . a third solution is now emerging : vertical farming . academic studies have found that locally cultivated vertical farm , stacked greenhouses that use an artificial light to grow crop , can provide significant saving that could then pass along to consumers . yet questions about such farms ’ fundamental economics , particularly the commodity crop , have persisted .
what this does imply is that the problem is political . the pensioners have been among the most powerful lobbies in a democracy , with politicians loath to confront among so crucial an issue . still , we need to confront squarely the intergenerational issues at the heart of today ’s economic dilemmas . our pension systems and our national budgets need to be based on an individual accounting , which assures that the economic risk spreads systematically throughout generations . what all this means is that our retirement and tax institutions must be geared toward changing circumstances that confront different generations , rather than making fixed promises -- something that most likely can not keep up , anyway -- of some payoff on the future .
lower financing costs for government debt seem a net gain in society , because a government then saves on debt-service costs and can keep taxes down . but any tax-cut gains from lower tax revenues are more than offset by losses in the private sector , which , facing higher financing costs , will invest less , in turn shoring up economic growth – in turn driving down government revenues . many steps have been taken in recent years to reinforce the banking system ’s regulation . but what is being proposed now will make investment even less attractive , and a stronger incentive to concentrate sovereign-risk concentrated in the banking sector . that may merely worsen europe ’s sovereign-debt problem and further weaken its already meager growth prospects .
the plo has been successful in gaining europe ’s support for a unilateral palestinian declaration of statehood . the american government ’s only obstacle to remaining palestinian leaders is the american people . when palestinians asked mitchell for assurances that an american would endorse such a declaration of statehood if talks fail , mitchell has responded that such a commitment would make any negotiations pointless . instead , the american people have their own ideas for achieving a breakthrough , particularly with israel , which the obama administration believes is the major obstacle now . to effect change in israel , the americans launch various trials balloons .
the commercial calculus behind that business sometimes provoked riots until anwar labor laws permitted the bodies of executed murderers and unclaimed dead , thereby reassuring the middle and upper classes of individuals that their bodies would not get engaged . these old tensions assumed new dimensions because human tissue ’s commercial potential catches entrepreneurial imagination . but few laws are in place to deal with multiple cells , tissues , and genes . the most notorious case concerning a body as property is that of john moore , a patient who developed hairy cell leukemia , and had his spleen removed at the 1976 school of medicine . his physician , patented certain types of chemicals in moore ’s blood without his knowledge or consent , set contracts , and sold rights to a swiss pharmaceutical company to produce drugs from “ mo ” cell line .
but the germans , undaunted by it all , simply hold the celebration of a one great soccer party with its newfound friends of around the world . the black , red , and gilets jaunted the entire country as never before , but almost nowhere are nationalist undertones . in effect , the flags of many peoples have been fleeing , compared to german ones . in berlin , like some other large german towns , taxis sport the flags of their respective drivers ’ homeland countries , from angola to saudi arabia . fans shudder not only with their nations ’ ’ ’ ’ flags , but with fanciful costumes evocative of their home countries ’ colors .
meanwhile , the death toll from the epidemic has been on the rise throughout the world . to avert the ebola outbreak from escalating further , decision-makers from health-care workers to government officials must re-engage with affected communities and win back their trust . fortunately , as neighboring rwanda has proved , this is entirely feasible . in 1994 , rwanda endured a brutal genocide in which an estimated 800,000 people were killed in an area of just 100 days . thisharthe experience left behind devastated by destruction of assets , a failed state , and traumatized populations with little faith in the local or international institutionalizing of the national basic immunization coverage .
at the anti-corruption summit in london on may 12 , world leaders , together with representatives from business and civil-society groups , will have a critical opportunity to act on this recognition . in fact , corruption is decried across cultures and entire history . it existed as long as governments did ; yet , like other crimes , it has become increasingly sophisticated during the past few decades , with the devastating effects on the wellbeing and dignity of the myriad of innocent citizens . for starters , the anti-corruption summit cripples prospects for development . when , say , public-procurement is rampant or royalty to natural resources is stolen at the source , lest the private sector is monopolized by a narrow network of cronies , populations are unable to realize its potential .
protests started when the government attempted to enact amnesty legislation overturned former prime minister thaksin shinawatra ’s conviction , yingluck ’s brother , and ptp ’s founder , overthrown by the military in 2006 – on trumped-up corruption charges and abuses of power . ( he , too , would supersede the assassination charges brought against a democratic party , the former prime minister , abhisit vejjajiva , earlier this month . ) but yingluck ’s consequent attempt at an amnesty measure failed to mollify the opposition . in fact , street protests have intensified , fueled by a new complaint . yingluck ’s government refused to accept the military-backed constitutional court ( icc ) to overturn the senate from a half-appointed chamber to a fully elected .
new presidents from the european commission , the european council , and the european central bank are to be nominated , as well as the new high representative for foreign affairs and security policy . should nationalist euroskeptic parties become the largest party in the european parliament , such appointments could represent a abrupt break from the past . eu member states are now more divided than ever on the most fundamental questions regarding the european project . the wide pro-european consensus of the past has been replaced by resurgent nationalism . moreover , the east has become increasingly rail against the west and the north against the south .
freetown , sierra leone , leone – donors like the world bank and the world health organization are often urging developing countries to increase their investment in the national health system . but , while rushing to construct clinics and other medical facilities in even remotest regions may seem like a straightforward approach to securing universal medical coverage , this has not turned out to be true . the recent ebola epidemic in west africa has highlighted the urgent need for a stronger , more efficient , and more resilient health-care system in the developing world . yet , as countries rush to build more clinics , resulting facilities typically are hastily constructed and lacking in the facilities , the supply and staff needed to deliver vital health services efficiently . in my native sierra leone leone visits to rural areas of my native sierra leone , i saw more than a handful of health-care facilities that communities could make without .
to be sure , if wilson were alive today , he might agree with trump on some issues , though his proposed solutions would be very different . wilson , for example , would probably concur with trump ’s claim that the level of us openness in global markets is excessive today . indeed , it is problematic that america ’s banks and firms can export capital , technologies , and jobs as they please , with little or no regard for domestic costs . but wilson ’s solution probably would focus on development and implementing improved regulations through an democracy-dominated multilateral process . likewise , he would probably advocate a fiscal policy focused on advancing the common good , with higher taxes on the richest corporations and households financing , say , infrastructure development , high-quality education , and universal health coverage .
but , in march 2010 , in a move i believed to be the key to our subsequent growth , i announced “ englishnization , ” a roadmap for the english-speaking corporate language in less than two years . the goal was to lay the groundwork for a global expansion in an industry that competes aggressively for internet-savvy talent . when i announced englishnization , just 10 % of our labor force was proficient in english . unsurprisingly , some on my team were apprehensive ; others , particularly those outside the company , thought that i was a little insane . but , just seven years later , corporate japan ’s titans are looking for our advice in how to build a global brands headquartered in japan ’s capital .
but that would only further weaken the banks ’ credit portfolios at a time when european regulators are already desperate to strengthen them . the ecb ’s decision to provide the banks with unlimited liquidity does not resolve governments ’ debt difficulties ; nor is its intent . but that at least , it prevents the debt problem from forming banking problems , which in turn worsens the no-exit problem . europe ’s second vicious spiral is shifting from fiscal consolidation to sluggish growth and back into fiscal consolidation . tax hikes and public-spending cuts are still necessary ; none is avoided by this reality .
add to this a recipe for action . price regulation and other ill-considered features of european policymaking contribute to the development of 60 % of the world ’s new drugs , compared to more than 40 % just ten years ago . this sterility and inertia make europeans less and less interesting about americans . so american eyes are turning elsewhere : to china with its 1.3 billion people and an economy growing at a rate of 8-10 % , year in and year out , with india , with its just 1.1 billion people and 6 % annual growth . indeed , india now hosts some of the best engineers in the world , it technicians , and health professionals .
but they are likely to die much faster if we suddenly engage in them , adding to us the modern pathogen against which they are unending antibodies . those tribes may be insulated , but their disappearance will have serious consequences . with their reverence for nature revealingly , and with comprehension , groups like the state ’s environmental sentinels , safeguarding 80 % of global diversity , and playing critical roles in dealing with climate change and adaptation . when the devastating 2004 indian ocean tsunami struck , more than a quarter-million deaths across 14 countries , but both isolated andaman tribes that relied on traditional cautionary systems have suffered no proper casualties . yet , as bolsonaro ’s ’s promises underscore , indigenous societies have pitted themselves directly against loggers , miners , crop planters , ranchers , oil drillers , hunts , hunts , and other interlopers .
in my own former professional roles , i witnessed as few others had made in poland and hungary into the euroatlantic institutions . i saw firsthand the eagerness and hope of their peoples at a momentous time . that is why their position today is so difficult for me to grasp . of course , this is not unreasonable that poland and hungary , whose sovereignty was much usurped by the former soviet union , are particularly sensitive to external efforts to shape their decision-making and have a stronger sense of national identity than any other eu country . but rejecting the eu will not insulate them from the uncertainties arising from globalization .
no particular country or group has created the international maritime law of the type that it now exists . it is the product of humankind ’s collective wisdom , cultivated over vast many years for the well-being of all . today , many of the benefits to mankind depend on the seas from the pacific to the indian oceans of the world ’s remaining fully open . but what , exactly , does that mean ? if we distill have the spirit infused into international law over the ages , and reformulate it as three principles , the rule of law at sea becomes a matter of common purpose .
when perpetrators of sexual violence can be named in high-profile settings like the un , it becomes harder for individual states to ignore activists ’ demands . to be sure , effective solutions must consider the local context . sexual violence can take many forms ; understanding its possible goal can help to predict and contain it . for example , the armed groups that use force as an recruiting tool are more often committed to committing egregious forms of sexual violence than groups that recruit through other means . furthermore , those living in the shadow of genocidal goals have a higher risk of being targeted by sexualized violence , like coercive pregnancies .
because an enlarged union becomes a reality for a mere two months , it is an imperative to develop the concepts of cultural understanding that are contributing to the successful integration of the new members . in fact , some values , a union long espoused , ought to be relatively easy to convey . a decade ago , with the maastricht treaty , eu members agreed to respect the history , culture , and the traditions of all of their constituent peoples . the draft constitution , which recently failed to win acceptance in the first round of negotiations , not merely promises to respect its cultural heritage ; obliges the union to actively protect , preserve , and develop the fortunes of europe ’s cultural and linguistic diversity . but europe can succeed on this task only if its different constituent cultures do not seal itself off from one another .
if successfully implemented , this agenda is likely to reverse the global saving and consumption patterns that have underpinned the large imbalances of the past few years . china has a responsibility to save side-by-side , while america disproportionately accounts for the savings-side effects , ultimately turning the chinese into america ’s lenders . to be sure , the global saving and consumption patterns have undergone much changes since the financial crisis , with both the west and china striving to restore their internal balance . doubling median household income by 2020 – a goal set at the chinese communist party ’s ’s ’s ’s 18th congress in november – is likely to free up the 64 trillion renminbi ( $ 10.3 trillion ) in purchasing power , with china ’s vast internal market gradually becoming a new long-term driver of domestic and international growth . that model presupposes that china develops domestic capital , rather than simply relying on foreign investment .
as irksome , i understand reding ’s reticence , and the frustrations of her generation . i do n’t like quotas , either ; they run counter to my belief in a meritocracy . but , when one considers the hurdles to achieve a meritocratic ideal , one does look as if a fairer world had to be mandated temporarily . after all , four decades of evidence have now demonstrated that corporations in europe as much as the american are evading meritocratic hiring and female promotion to top positions , regardless of how soft pressures ” are placed on them . when women do break down through the corporate power summit – as , say , sheryl sandberg recently did at facebook – they garner massive attention precisely because they remain the exception .
new delhi – in 2009 , while i competed for india ’s recent parliamentary election , i was a something of a rarity . my first decision was not to be a professional politician . by contrast , every other candidate in my constituency , a majority of contenders , across the country , have dedicated their entire lives to politics , many of them from their student days . i was not born into a political family ; i had no seat or political fiefdom to inherit ; and , so far , i have entered the race , with no political “ godfather ” . i did n’t even live in india for decades , devoting my adult life abroad to the united nations .
ultimately , however , the experiment did not fail . the fdp abandoning the talks that , as its leader , christian lindner , put it , “ the four debates partners have no common vision for modernizing the country or a common basis of trust in the ” process . even without a jamaica coalition , germany still has a steady , liberal majority in the bundestag . the same can not be said for the rest of the eu , where nearly every other member state now represents a “ 50-50 society ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” half a communitarian element . in those countries , the government at each given time represents whichever party won the latest round in an ongoing culture war .
for starters , all countries need to define online child trafficking ’s criminal acts and integrate it into their domestic penal code , combined with harsh sanctions for violators . likewise , all recruitment activities , advertising , and financial transactions involving online child trafficking should be criminalized . rising awareness on the subject is also critical , particularly in developing countries , where illiteracy , poverty , and age-appropriate sex education in schools can leave their children even more vulnerable . as it stands , parents must build interagency bridges to ensure that their children feel able to open up their needs . beliefs , too , should educate and sensitize their followers to do just that .
moreover , communities need to increase access to contraceptives and other sexual-health service delivery ; one way to make this happen would be to revive or establish youth-friendly spaces and centers in which information can share . such spaces should be opened after school and weekends staffed by knowledgeable , sympathetic adults . special attention must be devoted to rural regions and those with special needs , a often-overlooked adolescent population segment . improving guyana ’s life prospects is crucial . if more teenagers had access to sexual education and contraception , fewer girls would have their livelihoods cut by pregnancies .
many are lower-income workers , who would otherwise be unemployed . this suggests that stronger economic – and thus more employment – growth would reduce the number of workers engaged in independent work . but , whatever macroeconomic conditions , independent work is likely to account for a rising share of work over the long run , owing to technological advances and individual preferences . while the digital platforms of independent work remain in their early stages of development , employing just 15 % of all independent workers , they are proliferating and expands rapidly . mckinsey estimates that , from independent work , 30-45 % of working-age populations would prefer to earn an income , either primary or secondary .
the demand for abolishing censorship was one of the first political slogans of the polish march 68 . demands for the freedom of assembly and the right to organize the process along . crucially , the protesters did not demand a free and fair election . in this realists were realists , but both inside and around the political sphere , they demanded measures of civic control . one motto , after all , was no bread without freedom .
new haven – in what might well constitute the ultimate act of desperation , central banks pursue effective scrutiny of the economies they are fully endowed to lead . first came the zero bound on zero interest rates , then on quantitative easing and now on negative real interest rates , one futile attempt made begotten by another . just as the first two gambits have failed to gain meaningful economic traction in chronically weak recoveries , a shift toward negative rates will merely compound the risks of financial instability , setting the stage for another crisis . adopting negative interest rates – initially started in europe in 2014 and now embraced in japan – represents a major turning point for central banking . previously , emphasis was placed on boosting aggregate demand , owing primarily to lower borrowing costs , but also to spurring the wealth effect of appreciating financial assets .
as a result , demand now falls short of any binding constraint . indeed , the cost of permits has fallen to less than three euros per ton in april 2013 , to rendering an emissions-trading marketplace virtually irrelevant . in turn , this has spurred greater reliance on highly polluting coal , its worst source of energy , from the standpoint of global warming . that would not have happened had the price mechanism still underpin a climate-change policy . moreover , the eu ’s renewables policy has proved ruinously expensive .
the task facing the imf today is formidable . of course , it will be important for the fund to focus on global imbalances rather than bilateral imbalances . in the multilateral trading system , large bilateral trade deficits are often balanced by bilateral surpluses with other countries . although china might want to oil from the middle east to run its oil , those in the middle east who are so heavily concentrated in so few handles – might worry more about gucci handbags than in china ’s massachusetts – of massachusetts . so , while china may run a trade deficit with the middle east and a trade surplus with the us , those bilateral rebalancing points to nothing about china ’s overall contribution to global imbalances .
asked about their emotions the previous day , most people of americans ( 55 % ) said that they experience stress while they experience stress while they have a good day ; almost half ( 45 % ) said that they felt worry too much ; and more than one in just five ( 22 % ) say that they feel outrage at a lot . stresses , beware , and outrage all hit america ’s ten-year highs in 2018 . america was the world ’s seventh-stressed population in 2018 , less stressed in recent years than greece , the philippines and iran , but more stressed than uganda , turkey , and venezuela combined . such stress measures are consistent with yet another notable finding : americans ’ self-reported happiness also declined in 2018 . asked by gallup that they would rate their entire life on a scale , from zero ( the worst kind of life ) to ten ( the top of their lives ) , americans reacted with the average 6.9 , down from the 7.0 in 2017 , and 7.3 during 2006-2008 .
a written code – which emphasizes the commercial rewards of ethical business behavior – and the damaging consequences of falling short – is part of that effort and may help to preserve and strengthen a culture ; but a code by itself is not sufficient . constant reminders and repetition are essential . the employees have to understand , instinctively , what can be done , and what should not be done . they have to internalize a culture that values tight adherence to high ethical norms of behavior . to this end , banks should make their own values and cultures integral to hiring , firing , and incentivizing decisions .
islamabad – one hundred years ago this month , women in the united kingdom obtained the vote ; and , today , most women in the developed world are enfranchised . but , in many developing countries , the opposition that british suffragettes faced a century ago , rooted in misogyny persists . that is certainly true in pakistan , where a general election set on july 25 provides an ideal opportunity to advocate change . at first glance , pakistan seems progressive . the law has authorized women to vote since 1956 , nearly ten years after independence from britain .
in some cases , the result has been unexpected : some lending rates have in fact gone up . it was meant to have been obvious that most central-bank pre-crisis models , both formal pattern and mental models that guide policymakers ’ thinking , were badly wrong . none foresaw the crisis ; and , in very few of these economies , some semblance of full employment has been restored . the ecb famously hiked interest rates two-month in 2011 , just after the euro crisis made them worse , causing unemployment to rise to double-digit levels , bringing deflation ever closer . they went on to exploit old discredited models , perhaps mildly modified ones .
but mao ’s death did at least mark the end of the era of caesarism in china . because he had no son to succeed him , mao appointed a five-person politburo to do the job . its members included his nephew , mao yuanxin , his mistress , zhang yufeng , and jiang qing , his last wife , were just as incompetent in governing as kim himself , but following the catastrophe of the cultural revolution , the antagonism toward them to the army and other state institutions was too widespread for them to last . they , along with the four gang ( of which jiang qing was a member ) , were soon ousted . china ’s transit from caesarism to despotism and then from marxism to capitalism was lucky for china ’s citizens .
we in ukraine have learned this truth from the harsh french-style experience . though communism might , every now and then , coexist with privately owned property and , at times , privately owned enterprise could never coexist with a civic society . the most fateful attack to accompany serves in any form of dictatorship is a assault on civil society . in ukraine , free speech has been , on the fall of communism overnight . but a revival of civil society , of the many mutually reinforcing ways in which citizens participate in public life , is a complicated task , as the nations of egypt and tunisia will soon find out .
imagine , then , that american intelligence agencies confirmed that an act of aggression is actually well underway , despite putin ’s ’s own denials . finally , imagine how trump could respond . would he possibly call putin to question what should happen ? and would putin make another “ unbelievable ” offer to help the us investigators reach the bottom of things ? even more so to the point : would trump quickly invoke the principle of collective defense , under article 5 of the nato treaty ?
but these outside risks make the outlook for global growth look necessarily grim . the american-style baseline scenario continues to be robust . europe ’s growth could top the trend ahead , as it continues its long , sluggishness from the start of the debt crisis . and china ’s economies have shown doubters wrong for many years . that is why 2019 could turn out to be another year of solid global growth .
previously argued by eugene scalia , the son of america ’s high court justice antonin scalia , the case against the sec won in an american court of appeals , dc circuit , on a technicality – the sec ’s failure to conduct a timely analysis . that small victory turned into a major defeat for shareholders , when the sec , rather than performing such an analysis and redraft the rule , chose to stall . at a conference last december , i had asked sec chairwoman mary shapiro when her agency planned to reintroduce the rule . as a result , i had even offered to do the cost-benefit analysis for free trade . but , by doing so , it confessed that the sec had many other items on its agenda , placing the back burner , a polite way to say that the sec , like the heroic students in tiananmen square , had given up under irresistible pressure .
but these are not normal times , and these are certainly normal . indeed , the fed ’s monetary-policy policy has been inadequate to stave off an american recession , though one that remains so mild as to cast doubt on whether it qualifies as a true animal . the european central bank ’s analogous response has been to the fed ’s failure , but less doggedly , with monetary policy easier than headline rates would suggest was appropriate . and in western europe , too , gdp is now downward . in brief , major central banks on both sides of the atlantic reacted in response to the financial crisis but did not over-react .
when the opposition attempted to question these inconsistencies , eck abruptly proclaimed kibaki the winner . days later , eck ’s head publicly acknowledged that kibaki ’s supporters pressured him to announce “ the results ” immediately , despite unequivocal evidence of a vote rigging . shockingly , he declared that he did not know who actually won . at the same time , the eu announced that this election tally had failed to live up to basic international standards . an election is a catastrophe for kenya , but a american-led response is no less distressing .
moreover , a host of risk-management problems make such indicators hard to interpret . unsurprisingly , surveys of us households that are ’ and firms ’ inflation expectations forecast more precisely inflation expectations . given that market-based measures currently interact with most other keynesian economic data , little weighting should be tied to them . italy is also correct that current global trade tensions have hit eurozone producers hard , particularly in germany . but it is harder for monetary policymakers to respond by introducing trade barriers .
but pharmaceutical companies continue to withhold assumptions about the degree of pre-competitive regulation necessary to make a market challenged . at first glance , it seems counter-intuitive for companies to want to share data and potentially to cede competitive advantages . but this presupposes that possession of this data actually imply a competitive advantage , and that a closed , operating model is financially sustainable . the drugs that cause this into market must fund the costs of failing those that have made it to market . as a recent morgan stanley report points out , the pharmaceutical industry ’s current success rate is insufficient to sustain large inward r & d organizations , making industries ’s current operating model financially unviable .
though the iranian government might prefer to deter iran from using a nuclear weapon , a price on a nuclear-armed iran might well stage a regional arms race – the nuclear-armed saudi arabia , perhaps following in the footsteps of turkey and egypt . nuclear weapons , component , and materials in a region already volatile and impetuous of global oil prices are the appalling scenario . the markets have by now gone the measure of the last week ’s tensions , driving the price of some major oil contracts to their highest levels in just eight months . attempting to force iran back down with persistently mounting sanctions has failed to yield results . despite tightening economic noose – the american central bank imposed sanctions on all companies doing business with iran ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s central bank ; and the european union ’s plans to impose sanctions on iranian oil exports by late january , a number of nuclear-armed experts now estimate that iran is very close to enriching ample uranium to building a bomb .
this levy , vigorously backed by those eu countries whose financial sectors are in the post-crisis tatters , makes this levy difficult to swallow for eu member states that did not intervene to bail out their own banks . a levy represents a straightforward way to spread the political and financial costs of this crisis from some to all eu members . if applied , bank capital would become scarcer , inflows of credit slower growth , and bank fees higher in already-stable countries , simply because others spent a fortune supporting their financial systems – and because the european commission never again finds an opportunity for unifying eu rules . much the same holds for the derivatives trading scheme . post-crisis harmonization in italy means that it will now be more expensive everywhere within the eu to insure against currency volatility or an unexpected change in interest rates .
at & t , they offer scholarships through partner partner unfor-profit institutions , ensuring that up to 100 graduates receive paid internships . learnup , a san francisco startup startup that attracted funding from some of silicon valley ’s largest venture capital firms , establishes partnerships with employers to offer online learning modules that link job seekers to particular jobs , primarily entry-level positions that do not require college degrees . employers foot the bill with the expectation that learnup will help them to recruit higher-quality applicants . and , indeed , once candidates complete their training , learnup helps them to secure interviews with prospective customers that already comprise a few big firms . california ’s community college education system already operates with the learnup , in order to give students access to the skills they need to fill available locally made labor .
portugal , a military coup overthrew egypt ’s first democratically elected president , and led to a arrests of muslim brotherhood leaders across the country pose enormous peril not only for egypt ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s own democratic transition , but for its democratic hopes of the entire arab world as well . carrying out the coup ’s massive popular support , it is emblematic of the tremendous difficulties that the muslim brotherhood has confronted during its first turn in power . president mohamed morsi ’s government has struggled to tackle egypt ’s inherited economic and social crises in the face of the vast public expectation that the protagonists have sought not only for freedom , but also for economic development and social justice . to be sure , the muslim brotherhood has also been a victim of its own errors , particularly morsi ’s failure and his government to reach out to the secular opposition , the elements of which have contributed most to its election . morsi ’s government seems incapable of understanding that a slim electoral majority can not be sufficient , particularly nowadays .
paris – earlier this month , pascal simbikangwa , charged with complicity in the rwandan genocide , in which 800,000 people killed , between april and july 1994 , in paris . sadly , the mass killings across afghanistan continue . in south sudan , africa ’s newest status , massacres of civilians continue to occur , particularly around libor . and french military interventions by the central african republic have not placed an end to severe inter-communal violence . yet , ironically , even as such episodes continue to unfold in africa , perhaps on greater scale than in any other region of the world , so , too , has the continent become beacon of hope .
moreover , with mounting concern over america ’s fiscal policy , europe has an enormous opportunity to play an even larger role as the world ’s reserve currency . one shudders to think of what happens if europe does not withdraw from its current mold . surely , europe would lose traction as a badly needed counterweight to america in world economic policymaking . europeans might not mind this right now ( one sees more obama t-shirts in europe than in the us ) ; but they might not be as pleased as long as george bush iii comes along . fortunately , europeans probably will not wait so long as to begin moving forward once again .
that implies that it was not advisable to focus on growth up to the gap until deflation has narrowed considerably enough – that is , up to now . simply put , the third arrow is not some traditional industrial-policy-based approach . on the contrary , he emphasizes labor-market reform , deregulation , and reduced corporate-tax rates . a key component of abe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s growth strategy is to expand the labor force , a major challenge , given that japanese society is aging fast enough . one logical solution would be to integrate more foreign labor in japan ’s economy .
what is certain is that a vacuum left by sharon 's departure from us politics is all the more striking in view of images of chaos unfolding from gaza that israel vacillated and the collapse of the palestinian authority ahead of our eyes . nor is the emergence of another providential figure fast approaching . not all exceptional periods form their bonapartes , and perhaps even this is a good thing ; for unusually leaders may give the illusion that any problems have solutions that is far from the truth . history 's natural course in the most optimistic sense is progress “ on the margins , ” but with the accelerating pace of technological change pushing us to expect an even more rapid pace of progress on human affairs . many in the us seem to believe that such an impossible wager can accomplish nothing more than a kind of providential man 's hope and dangers that this entails .
so , while the cameron government ’s endorsement of deeper eurozone integration is welcome , it can not and will not be shaped from outside , and in accordance with , british national interests . the uk is in no position to block the other eu member states from deeper integration , given most of the other eu member states ’ political will to move ahead . indeed , at last year ’s negotiations over the “ fiscal compact , ” the eu was meant to demonstrate the difficulty of exercising a so-called domestic veto . still , the uk has played a leading role in designing crucial eu policies , including action on the single market , overseas development aid , trade , and climate change . the uk ’s leadership in these areas was heavily appreciated , and would sorely miss the british decision to leave .
but they will fault the us for not comprehending a bigger war . it is already clear that the obama administration was not aware of what it was bargaining for when , unthinking about what would come next , it called in assad ’s removal in 2011 . in july of that year , robert s. ford , america ’s ambassador to syria , was dispatched in the sunni town of hama , where assad ’s father ordered the massacre 30 years earlier . according to the us state department during that time , the point about the visit had been to “ [ articulate ] our deep support for the right of the syrian people to assemble peacefully , and to make that point . ” had the us administration really not predicted that assad , like his father before him , would have reacted to a popular violence uprising ?
beijing – after years of intervening to manage the renminbi ’s exchange rate , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) , is under enormous pressure to float its currency . but striking the right balance between loosening its grip on the exchange rate and preserving monetary stability will be no easy feat . every economics student learns the mundell-fleming model that the us economy can not sustain a fixed exchange rate , loose capital movements , and independent monetary policies simultaneously . if a country with a fixed exchange rate and open-ended capital account tightens monetary policy to contain inflation , rising domestic interest rates will give market participants an incentive to borrow foreign currencies , turning it into domestic currencies ’ trade for onshore investment . the resulting capital inflows , if persistent , would generate upward pressure on the currency , forcing the central bank to maintain exchange-rate stability , intervening by selling the domestic currency , especially american dollars , until interest rates and money supply returned to their initial levels .
america ’s presidential nominee hillary clinton has an even more focused fix : the 15 % tax credit for profit that corporations distribute to workers over the next two years . by providing temporary tax relief , such a scheme would help firms to compensate for the clerical costs of establishing a profit-sharing program . to cap costs and avoid abuses , profits totaling more than 10 % on a worker ’s wage would be ruled out ; the overall sum that offers to individual firms will be capped ; and safeguards against labor-replacing substitutions to pay , raises , and other benefits . at the same time , tax credit might foster change in the us corporate culture , through a spurring board-level discussion not only about the benefits of earnings sharing , but also of sharing information and employee decision-making . more broadly , trump ’s stagnant incomes are undermining supply-side economic growth ( by discouraging household consumption ) and supply-side outcomes ( through adverse impacts on educational opportunity , human-capital development , and innovation ) .
most russians do not see a connection between prosecuting key figures and political credibility . people , on the other hand , appear to identify with putin ’s own message that the establishment is finally tackling corruption . but it is the message to russia ’s shaken elites that makes them more relevant . and that message is straightforward : no one is safe from prosecution even if , like abyzov and ishayev , they retire from public services , with no longer having influence . moreover , selective repression has become harsher .
it has also endorsed a successor to the commission , a high-level panel on which to measure economic performance and social progress . just last week , at the oecd ’s 18th world forum on statistics , knowledge , and policy in incheon , south korea issued its report beyond gdp : measuring which counts for economic as well as societal performance . a new report emphasizes several topics , like trust and insecurity , that addressed only briefly , by adversely measuring our lives and explores a few more , like inequality and sustainability , more profoundly . and it explains how inadequate metrics have led to deficient policies across a wide range of domains . improved indicators would reveal the extremely adverse – and potentially protracted – effects of the deep post-2008 slump on productivity and well-being , in which case policymakers may not have been so enamored of austerity , which has depressed fiscal deficits but decreased national wealth properly , by a measure of even more .
seventy-three years ago , john maynard keynes thought about the reform and regulation of financial markets from the first three purposes , and found it “ “ moved towards … mak [ ing ] buying an investment continual and indissoluble , ” like marriages … ” ” but he immediately drew blot more willing to run risk … ” the fact that every individual investor flatters himself that his commitment is ‘ liquid , ’ ( though this can not be true to all investor collectively ) calms his nerves , and make him a lot more willing to run risk … ” ) , however , he drew back : the fact that every individual investor flatters himself that his entire commitment is ‘ liquid , ’ ( though this can not be true for gambling instinct collectively ) , and make him much more willing to run the proper toll … ” moreover , “ [ t ] he game of professional investment is intolerably dull and over-exacting to anyone who is entirely exempted from the gambling instinct of the right type of financial regulation . ” it is for those reasons that we have appeared to be frozen for past generations , or two whenever we have acknowledged reforming our system of financial regulation . and it is precisely because , even in the face of some severe financial crisis , we remain frozen today .
perhaps the most outrageous recent examples are america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s $ 0.54 gallon of import tariff on ethanol , whereas there is no tariff on crude oil , and just one $ 0.5 a gallon tax on gasoline . that contrasts sharply with the $ 0.51 per gallon subsidy that american companies ( a huge proportion that will go to a single firm ) get on ethanol . as a result , there can be no competition for foreign producers unless their cost is $ 1,05 per gallon lower than that for american manufacturers . massive subsidies have meant that america has become america ’s largest ethanol producer . yet , despite this enormous benefit , some foreign firms may still make it to the american market .
the results not only created a conflict between american federal legislation and us state regulation ; they also signal a shift in attitudes not dissimilar to that on same-sex marriage . just as important was us president barack obama ’s response to the colorado and washington votes earlier this year , the two states that he won easily in his re-election bid . implied by this legal and political challenge , the legal and political challenges that america has implied are no minor matter : marijuana remains the illicit substance under america ’s federal laws , and the international conventions america has adopted . on other issues , continued immigration from the us , obama rejects claims to the states of the rights of the states and insists on a federal authority . moreover , the topic remains highly sensitive : while the public-opinion polls in 2012 indicate for the first time a small majority in favor of legalization , opposition parties remain vehement .
as sharpened as ethnic rivalries have been , the result has been catastrophic . whatever else said of such french-backed authoritarian regimes , hindsight leaves little doubt about the benefits of social stability seen in the ivory coast during the period until the 1980 ’s , when france remained paternalistically engaged with its former colony . 1999-2000 ’s political upheavals resulted in a new “ democratic ” constitution , which became an invitation to civil war . regional and religious tension has been mounting since houphouet ’s death and aggravated by a new constitution enshrined in ethnic discrimination . roughly four million northerners were denied political participation or land ownership on the grounds that they were offspring of neighboring countries .
these are highly educated people who know that knowledge is power , have a clear agenda , and are bearing in mind that learning in europe is the responsibility of national governments , rather than of brussels-based institutions . these governments want to establish an education system , according to which the state decides alone which research fields are essential and socially important . in the long run , they also probably want the state to grant political loyalists the right to manufacture and transfer knowledge . in other words , access to knowledge stops being a civil right . political trustworthiness determines who is able to teach and study the purpose of a country and its past .
dubai , the globalization of economics , as many have noted in recent years , is back in retreat . yet despite all of its undeniable benefits , it has bedeviled governance and governance problems that have been compounded by the ruthlessness of national governments and international institutions . that has left people everywhere , the rich and the poor alike struggling to cope with challenges through failed states , from uncontrolled fishing to under-employment , from climate change to economic stagnation to which globalization has contributed but can not address effectively . fragile institutions have created a political backlash , as well as the dangers of catastrophe on many fronts . mark leonard leonard , director of the european council on foreign relations , and vice chair of the world economic forum ’s new global agenda , has noted that interdependence , formerly the economic boon , has now become an existential threat .
london – for two decades , chinese diplomacy has guided the notion of a country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s “ peaceful rise . ” today , however , china needs a new strategic doctrine , because the most remarkable aspect of sri lanka ’s recent victory over the tamil tigers is not its crushing nature ; rather , the reality is that china provided chinese president mahinda rajapanida rajapaska with both us military dries and the diplomatic cover needed to prosecute the war . without that chinese backing , rajapaska ’s government would be unable to keep pace with world opinion on its offensive against the tigers . so , not only has china become central to every aspect of the global financial and economic system demonstrated its strategic efficacy in a region traditionally beyond its orbit . on sri lanka ’s abachfront battlefields , china ’s “ peaceful rise ” was finished .
should the break-up of the euro and the gipsic countries into deflation , germany alone would have lost roughly € 545 billion per year , almost half of the aggregate sum quoted , because the bundesbank had implemented most of the net payments in the name of gipsic nations that reflect on budget balances . germany has the greatest exposure of exposure by far among the crisis-stricken euro-zone countries , thereby helping to ease austerity more than any other country would . so george soros underestimates the risks that re-regulation would pose to europe ’s future . when alexander hamilton , america ’s first american finance minister , mutualized national debts in 1791 , he thought that this would cement a new american nation . but the mutualization of debt gave rise to enormous moral hazard effects , inducing states to borrow excessively .
hong kong – looking back at the year 2016 , there might seem to be little to celebrate . from the perspective of global health alone , a year has appeared one of asia ’s own unrelenting tragedy . beyond stories of hospitals in conflict zones that are boxed in , the zika virus has emerged as a heightened threat . there has also been a antibiotic-resistant proliferation , or “ superbugs , ” the continuing revival of yellow fever , and polio reemerging in nigeria , previously dismissed as a polio-free proposition . hope for a respiratory syncytial virus has been dashed .
when it comes to securing equity in the banking sector , these precedents and existing institutions are pointing the way ahead . at the same time , history also shows us that financial exclusion is a persistent problem whenever a universal service-for-service requirement is absent . during a new deal era , us regulators integrated the functional equivalent of such a requirement in charters for banks and thrifts . but such mandates were removed during the wave of deregulation in the 1980s , with banks rapidly moving away from low-cost financial-services schemes and toward higher-profit activities . this dynamic can be seen in the trend toward bank consolidation and branch closings that have accelerated since the 2008 financial crisis and reduced access to services in lower-income communities .
after all , the israeli government not only authorizes supposedly unapproved outposts to exist ; it also supplies them with water , electricity , the internet , and the us military protection . this has not been lost on all of america ’s leaders ; it has always been . then-us secretary of state john kerry told the american congress in april 2014 that the direct talks between israel and palestine had gone “ “ ” when israel announced 700 new housing troops for israelis in the west bank . by december 2016 , obama had allowed the un security council to vote on that trump-derided resolution declaring israel to settlements a major “ obstacle ” to the two-state solution . it is not hard to see what palestinian negotiators had to feel as being driven by the massive israeli settlements on territories they were working to include part of an independent state .
new haven : throughout europe and america , male men in the black tie city and women in kenzo and armani gowns , once-as many annual pilgrims to places like bayreuth , glyndebourne , and glimmerglass . time , too , there is also the discovery of state coffers in order to encourage these privileged retreats . perhaps so , too , is the time to ask , again , a basic question : should the state continue to ladle in generous subsidies for such an elite activity ? consider the kind of unconscious beauty and spiritual depth : a roman catholic high matter . does its grandeur really mean that the nation-state should subsidize it ?
so a key feature of foreign policy integration is that it is impossible for governments to know to work ahead of what they are being let in their own way . in defense and warfare cases , unpredictability implies that youth men die in action . as a result , it is not surprising that eu foreign-policy integration has made little headway . this contrast underlines the reality that the great successes of eu integration took place in that no-man ’s - a land that rests between total national autonomy and full loss of national sovereignty . but foreign policy as we have known it is , in essence , a manifestation of a nation-state or a superpower .
the us faces a $ 100 million $ 100 million shortfall for a new school year . without the international community ’s additional support , our vision will not realize this , despite strong political will and rigorous planning . lebanon often struggles to attract funding , owing to its status as a middle-income country , but that label is misleading , because it disregards the grave structural weaknesses pre-date of the syrian crisis or a vast share of the indigenous population that is composed of refugees from syria , mozambique , and afghanistan living in abject poverty . it is one thing i hope to become clear at the oslo education summit that is the need for aid by middle-income countries affected by fragility and conflict . i am thankful of donors that when i began the us , but now needs additional international support .
what does this tell us about human nature , and our capacity to live either prudently or in any way ethically ? part of the problem , of course , is that we are making resolutions to do just things , which are n’t likely to do so otherwise . only the aberic might resolve to eat ice cream at least a week or two , while only a workaholic would resolve to digest the extra time outside television . so , by seeking to change behavior that may be the most difficult to make a change in the process . that , in turn , makes failure to do that .
a second finding that is drawn from the current situation is that the fed has now overstating america ’s economy for 11 consecutive years . elementary mathematics dictates that a plausible prediction should at least overestimate half that time , and undershoot half that time . if every year of fed forecasting were a coin toss , there are now eleven heads of us now , as well as zero tails . the likelihood of that happening is one in 2,048 , at best . clearly , the fed needs deep views about its forecast methodology and policymaking processes .
any study that tries to determine if an anti-psychiatric disorder is ignored over-diagnosed finds that some of those with the condition had no such use of the condition upon revisit the question . this is the nature of the imperfect reliability of psychiatric diagnoses . the question , then , is not whether some patients previously given a diagnosis seem to have it not upon reinterviews , but rather at how many people may seem to think about it . how high percentages were to be before claims that unabashedly diagnosis has a significant problem and value judgment . but we think that an unconditional diagnosis rate of over 50 % crossing the clinical relevance threshold .
in many previous banking crises , it was poland or italy that hit hard ( argentina , japan , etc. ) . this time , virtually every economy suffers substantially , and a banking crisis is global in nature . policymakers will continue to hoard whatever ammunition they can find in trouble , but this will take time for deleveraging from a boom to a run on their course . at a time of severe economic hardship , policymakers thrash out of finding solutions , and some lose faith in the economic system itself . indeed , during the great depression of the 1930 ’s , it was common for western intellectuals to turn against communism and central planning as a hoped-for panacea .
washington , dc – steve bannon ’s towering travels in europe earlier this year have attracted little attention , as it was , given that he was us president donald trump ’s key theoretician ’s signature brand of pan-national nationalism . understandably , bannon wants to build a federation of right-wing nationalist parties across europe . and yet , one wonders how an “ america first ” ideologue can pursue his own political project , anywhere else in the americas . by joining forces with french far-right leader marine le pen , herself an openly advocate of russian president vladimir putin , bannon seems to have in mind a new type of “ neo-nationalist ” internationally . as more countries transform themselves into a kind of “ nationalist autocracies , ” and a “ illiberal democracies ” under strongman rule , nationalism has become an ideological westphalian denominator .
one famous incident at the end of the eighteenth century was lord macartney ’s british mission to an china imperial court . macartney refused to conform to chinese imperial setting by dropping to an imperial setting , because it was not obligated to do the same to its own sovereign . this , too , was a case in point that “ keeping face ” : the chinese expected tribute ; the british lord insisted on an equal status for that of his kingmaker . as a result , the mission broken up . diplomatic immunity from local prosecution was an idea that sprang squarely out of another incident , nearly a century earlier , involving the arrest of russian aristocrat , andrey matveyev , who represented peter the great in london .
if not , the losses in bond prices would more than wiped out the extra interest it had earned , even as tariffs remain unchanged for the next five years . here ’s how arithmetic works for the investor who rolls over the next five years , thereby earning 2 % more every year than he otherwise would by investing in us treasury bills or bank deposits . assuming that the interest rate on ten-year bonds remains unchanged for the next five years , and then rising from less than 2 % to more than 5 % . during those five years , an investor earns an extra 2 % annual rate , for a cumulative gain of ten percentage points . but , with the interest rate on an extra ten-year bond yield skyrocketing to 5 % , the bond ’s ’s price has plummeted from about $ 100 - $ 69 ( $ 52.5 trillion ) .
only the world ’s political and economic heavyweights , the major industrialized countries that remain by far the largest consumer consumers of hydrocarbons , can initiate a change on a global scale . change must begin in the transportation sector , which accounts for more than half of today ’s global oil consumption , a share that will likely rise for the future . accordingly , g-8 countries should agree to no longer license any new , oil-powered automobile from 2025 . that decision would be directed not at individual mobility , but against the dissipation of an scarce resource that is more urgent for the production of synthetic materials . as such , political leaders should not privilege the particular technology , let alone the world .
ithaca – america ’s president-elect donald trump has once again succeeded in turning facts on his head . as part of a broader effort to engage china in supposedly “ ratifying ” the united states economy through an unfair trade policy , he has now been renewed his accusation that the country manipulates its currency in order to gain the benefit of its own exports . such pronouncements are just as dangerous as they are unmoored from reality . make no mistake : trump is accusing chinese currency manipulation not of keeping up with facts . on the contrary , for the past two and a half years , the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) has been intervening in currency markets in the opposite direction : preventing the renminbi ’s value from falling too sharply against the us dollar .
new delhi – late last month , as two indonesian states and national capital clung to a ransom by rioting mobs challenged their spiritual leader , ’s conviction on two counts of raping minor girls , many indians found themselves confronting a number of painful figures for their countries . the leader who has fanned these protests is gurmeet , one of the more prominent of a few “ godmen , ” ” or self-proclaimed spiritual leaders that flourish all over india . the gridi sunanbedecked singh calls himself baba gurram rahim insan – a compound of hindu , muslim , and sikh name-named , followed by a word for “ human ” in hindi , punjabi , and urdu shtayi . and , indeed , he has a reputation for sexually exploiting his women ’s followers . by 2002 , two of those adherents mustered the courage to press charges .
on the other hand , some american policymakers continue to believe that iran would abandon its enrichment program if only the european union imposed unilateral sanctions . but a clear-headed analysis by iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s own behavior indicates that the eu ’s sanctions will lead to more trade diversion , with china , iran , turkey , or dubai benefiting from a reduced level of european exports to iran . to be sure , while some of the imports would become more expensive for iran , the full economic impact of such sanctions would remain limited . politically , ahmadinejad certainly would not miss his chance to take advantage of the unilateral action for his country ’s propaganda – arguing that iran has a conflict not with the international community , but with imperialist nation-states intent on depriving his country of technological progress . for these reasons , europeans tend to favor a new security council resolution even if its measures are weaker than what the united states or the eu could impose unilaterally .
no one could identify more with the political elite than abe did , the grandson of the congress-led cabinet minister and later prime minister , and the son of a foreign minister . and yet he shares right-wing populists ’ hostility toward liberal academics , journalists , and intellectuals . postwar japanese democracy was influenced in the 1950 ’s and 1960s by an intellectual elite that knowingly sought to distance japan from its own brand of nationalism . abe and his allies are demonstrating that they are trying to quash that influence . his effort to revise japan ’s pacifist constitution , restore pride in its wartime record , and discredit “ elitist ” mainstream media , such as the left-of-center columnist asahi shimbun , has done much to gain the praise of donald trump ’s former chief strategist , stephen bannon , whom abe calls a “ trump above trump . ”
ensuring high-quality output and ’ local consumers of allegiance requires keeping workforces happy and sustaining a positive public image . african countries , by contrast , often see the worst sides of multinational companies : energy , mineral , and precious metal companies go where resources are , not where it ’s ’s ’s pleasant . as one former mining managers in the region told me , the goal was always simple : get assets off and out of the country as cheaply , and with as little fuss as possible . because a customer is abroad and little processing there is to make it work on the ground , why should companies upgrade local capabilities , or otherwise deliver the host economy ? but sub-saharan africa ’s potential relations with global corporations need not be as severely restricted .
the first large city to boom was london , starting 1996 . the boom mentality spread into los angeles , new york , and sydney around the year of 1997 , to paris in august 1998 , to miami , moscow and shanghai in october 2001 , and vancouver around 2002 . these and other cities have all been booming pretty much since 2000 ; prices in most countries are up at least 50 % in real terms since 2000 . this kept the big bang for us homeowners , but has hurt any planning to buy . now home prices are weakening in some of these cities .
the government employs hosts of the new law , the shadow internet police force , and the skill-biased national information filtering system . control also relies heavily on internet users ’ demography , what most belong to china ’s economic elite , and embrace the internet as part of their newfound consumer lifestyle , than as an instrument of a political or social revolution . what is surprising , then , is that the mechanisms of government control have been largely efficient . but it is also fueling profound societal shifts rooted in rising rights consciousness within a society , something strengthened – and amplified – not just by an economy ’s growth , but by the rapid diffusion of the internet . after two and a half decades of market-oriented economic reform , chinese citizens are increasingly realizing how to protect their own economic and social interests through the internet of human rights .
this european polity lacks a second crucial feature of madison ’s scheme : diversified political representation at the federal level . there are both individual nation-states , regions , and special-interest groups within the eu . but , while joint european causes arise daily , they do not have europe-wide political representation . no single political party or politician in brussels can claim to represent europeans , who are ’ collective interests , because none must compete for europe-wide public support . as a result , nationally elected representatives have a responsibility to make crucial eu-level choices .
is anything more really asking , really one might ask for a president ? and yet , in general , america ’s presidential campaigns neglect a debate about consultants or intellectual proportion . though a president ’s advisers might make a difference , one would think that the candidates admit to them if only to suggest where their own ideas originate ; after all , realistically what they are selling is their abilities to judge and manage expertise , rather than their own abilities as economists ’ abilities . this time is also far from a reference to any deep economic thinker or any particular economic model . obama has originally had a marker of economic advisers , including lawrence summers , christina romer , “ austan goolsbee ” , and cass sunstein .
for another , they will need to make their own distinct contributions . they can simply not wait for america to move ; nor can they always seek to placate washington ’s preferences . in short , they will need to make their own efforts to sustain joint efforts . what this distinct contribution could turn out to be no longer difficult to define . after all , with only the ingrained habit of playing second fiddle to american members by seeming and loudly distancing themselves from israel ’s repressive kurds on the west bank and gaza , despite such an attitude that will help bolster arab states ’ commitment to a coalition against terrorism , as does a useful shove toward american diplomacy .
one cause for this is that the tiny number of patients making study illnesses and testing drugs is hard to know . as a result , medical professionals often know very little about the symptoms and biology of these illnesses . earlier this year , i participated in a rare vaccine day program in california . the topic has been the obscure but big-collection ( over 70 ) of illnesses caused by a specific species of genetic error , one that takes place in the cell machinery that chemically attaches sugars to proteins and lipids . very little is known about what produces mutations that give rise to such congenital disorders , and the treatments exist for only a few .
markets become rigged , justice becomes transactional , and politicians sell themselves to the high bidder . in time , this “ corruption culture ” will permeate society . in ukraine , even universities are compromised : degrees is routinely bought and sold . while corruption is more a symptom than the cause of ukraine ’s ’s troubles , a corruption-related culture must be uprooted before conditions can improve . one might assume that this simply requires a strong state , with the means to uproot itself in corrupt politicians and businessmen .
likewise , no one should expect any kind of moratorium on settlement expansion . on the contrary , settlements offer cheaper housing than are available in israel , thereby resolving one of the country ’s great economic problems . “ red-lines ” in israel have a way of mutualizing along the lines drawn under the sand that are then made rendered invisible by the slightest closer wind . the new government ’s fragile equilibrium equilibrium only emphasizes this sober interpretation . in israel , obama will encounter a country that really has moved , but not toward a missed center .
as a result , the ratio of tax revenue to total spending this fiscal year has fallen below 50 % , for the first time in japan ’s ’s ’s ’s postwar history . if the government continues along this path , many expect next year ’s budget deficits to continue to rise further . despite japan ’s weakness in the fiscal position , the market for japanese government bonds ( jgbs ) remains stable , at least for now . japan had a similar experience during the 1990 ’s , the country ’s ’s so-called “ “ lost decade . ” at that time , japan ’s ten-year budget deficit soared after the country ’s asset bubble burst , causing economic stagnation .
new york – following outrage by the united states , mugabe ’s regime has held outrage . its catalogue of crimes includes : stealing the 2002 elections that enabled mugabe to hold on to power ; torturing and murdering supporters of the opposition movement for democratic change ; the transformation of a fertile , prosperous country once considered africa ’s breadbasket to a place where half of the population has scarcely survives on foreign-policy handouts ; and , as exemplified by its attacks on daily newsweek , suppressing critical voices . yet zimbabwe ’s neighbors , particularly the south african union , have been defending president mugabe . in late august , heads of state of the association of thirteen members of the south african development community ( sadc ) – including mugabe and president thabo mbeki of south africa , a leading regional power – met in dar es salaam , tanzania to reflect on the challenges ahead of them . among the 54 turning paragraphs of the summit , two of which addressed zimbabwe .
a 2014 pew study found that whereas only 25 % of respondents were satisfied with shaping the direction of national policy , 60 % were content with governance in their own communities . and the american constitution allows individual states to function like what judge brandeis called democracy ’s laboratories , by experimenting with innovative policies without bringing in the rest of the country at risk . there is a long and rich history of successful experimentation . state and local governments were leaders in establishing public primary and secondary education systems , as were state-guided colleges and universities . california , wyoming , and other states enabled their women to vote , an example that encouraged passage in the nineteenth amendment ( embraced by all adult women ) .
should higher nominal gdp ( that is , inflation-driven ) growth substitute for debt-driven growth ? europe needs to aim for sustainable , non-inflationary , and job-creating job creation . the current 0.3 % inflation rate is attributable to the pronounced decline in commodity prices , and painful but unavoidable adjustment of costs and prices in peripheral countries . only greece currently holds a slightly negative real inflation rate as well . in other words , price stability reigns in the eurozone .
as a result , record-high speculative price has probably caused bundesbank traders to unleash inventory , but those releases may buy today ’s bought speculators , who are now active in the process of commercial storage capacity . the implication is that speculators can drive prices and increase their stock holdings , even as the total number of business inventories remain little overturning at all . additionally , oil-market speculation may have fanned speculation , ” whereby ultimate users buy refined products on the production side to protect against future price hikes . they then assume delivery onto their premises in order to rise overall refined inventories , but that increase is not part of the reported business inventories . showing that speculation is responsible for higher prices is always hard to come , because it tends to emerge against the backdrop of strong fundamentals .
but the two states lack the domestic revenues required to sustain their institutions . if they so desire to survive well in the coming century , they will probably have to subsumed themselves under a union backed by a greater , stronger , and more established nation-state . moreover , the disintegration already witnessed by the region and will no doubt continue to witness – will reverberate beyond the arab map of the nation-state with the creation of a shia-ruled kurdish state . such a status quo , whether by de-nuclearization or by widespread formal recognition , will have an enduring impact on the borders of the arab world ( syria and iraq ) and the broader middle east ( turkey and iran ) . the arab spring overthrew certain regimes , albeit not others .
we tend to think that new risk-management goods such as a novel type of insurance or financial derivatives will primarily interest the wealthy , or at least the relatively wealthy . indeed , there are new risk-management goods for some of the poorest people in africa , in asia and elsewhere in latin america . what is important is to recognize is that the world ’s ’s poorest people are not the same people from year to year . good fortunes and bad fortune are alternate randomly , making the world ’s poorest people particularly vulnerable when adversity upon them , such as a hurricane in a fishery village , strikes . hence , risk management through income bumps , can be especially important in alleviating poverty ’s effects .
that disconnect is nothing new ; it was always tsars and serfs , politburo commissars , and proletariat . that postcommunists , however , may sometimes proclaim allegiance to the hazy collective sense of rossiyane ( russian citizens ) , have deprived – or liberated – the matter of view , russia of all its collective life ; both are the real life of shared hardship and imaginary communist solidarity ’s imaginary life . nowadays , everyone deals for life and hardships individually ( a new word in our daily vocabulary ) , regardless of any kremlin desire to make life uniform again . indeed , it is true that , even russia ’s uniformity is felt nowadays . one of russia ’s great private oil stations in novgorod i was seen as the story .
increased international cooperation would maximize immigration in the eu ’s own economic advantages . yet , despite the potential benefits of cooperation on controlling illegal immigration , most eu countries – including the us and the eu – are trying to reform their own immigration laws unilaterally . they view cooperation as unfeasible , given the natural competition between destination and source countries for the most productive workers . a new system in which “ reversible bonds ” have replaced quotas and desirability screenings would diminish such competition while mitigating the risks to destination and source countries . reversible bonds would act as an insurance mechanism for both parties , aligning destination countries out of fiscally motivated immigration and protecting source countries from the costs implied by lost talented workers .
every downturn , eventually , comes to an end . denmark ’s mark good policy is that it succeeds in making the downturn shallower and shorter than it otherwise might have been . denmark ’s mark of the austerity policies embraced by many governments is that they make the downturn far deeper and longer than was necessary , with long-run consequences . real ( inflation-adjusted ) per capita gdp is lower in much of the north atlantic than it was in 2007 ; in greece , the economy has shrunk by an estimated 23 % . germany , the top-performing european country , has recorded a miserly 0.7 % average annual rate over the past six years .
twenty-five years ago , poland ’s peoples were stunned by the choice of their compatriot , the cardinal karol wojtyla of the cracow , as pope . some were alarming , while others wept with joy . here was the prominent writer , saying “ poland ’s second christendom . ” but , even during our euphoria , we failed to anticipate how much a new pope could make a difference , not only poland , but the whole world . his initial return visit to his homeland , soon after , showed all that the world of today is a new pope power .
while hong kong 's courts have surely been able to settle the matter on their own , governed by two systems of legitimacy , hong kong is reassured by an independent court system , apart from the process of electing its own legislature , an enraged china intervened . after all , restraint does not mean , after all , a leninist virtue . in an extraordinary move , china 's national people 's congress standing committee stepped into “ making a clear break with the basic law ” article 104 , stating that everyone of the oaths taken by the office-holders must have been “ solemn , accurate , complete , and sincere . " the yau and leung were barred from taking their seats on the legislative council . to most hong kong 's lawyers , the displays of political authority did not represent simply a reinterpretation of old rules , but rather a shift toward making new ones .
prodded by groups like a workers consortium and an ethical trading initiative , some corporations promise to pay living wages , open their factories to monitors , and even give employees a voice in the workplace . to reebok , the multinational sportswear firm , advertises its corporate code as being “ based on the core principles ” of the un ’s universal declaration of human rights . society markets its soccer balls and other goods with a “ guaranteed : an manufactured free of child labor ” label . but the sensitivity of human rights did nothing , if any , to staunch trade unionism ’s decline . the international labor organization reports that unions are in retreat in most nations .
the united states , for its part , has already taken the next logical step . the us securities and exchange commission requires companies that use tantalum , tin , gold , or tungsten in their products to investigate those raw material propulsion and mitigate risks in their supply chains consistent with oecd guidance if they are found to join in some conflict-affected or risk zone areas . the 12 member countries of africa ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s 12 international conference on the great lakes region committed themselves to a similar compulsory due-diligence requirements . that , as it should be , is as good as it should be . of course , responsible sourcing is a liability , rather than a choice .
they will conclude that they can have it both ways , by holding out the benefits of economic integration , without losing their citizens ’ infringe on their rights , or using the eu ’s fiscal transfers to build patron-client relationships and reinforce their own state . illiberal cee nationalists such as hungarian prime minister victor orbán like to claim that they are defending national sovereignty from the extreme bureaucrats in brussels . cameron ’s initiative is playing right into their hands , enabling orbán and his allies in neighboring countries to declare anathema any move toward ever-closer union and boosting federal authority and legitimacy . the truth , however , is that the cee countries have little to lose in the ways that sovereignty entails . most of their productive and financial assets are held by foreign companies , just as most rules that govern their economies have laid down the eu .
the systemic crises in food , fuel and finance that came to a head in 2008 , and that continue to this day in many countries , have their roots in an economic paradigm that did not accounted for nature ’s value and its array of life-supporting services . in fact , as the just-released report set out in motion for a green economy : the trajectory of sustainable development and poverty eradication ” shows , a market economy as currently constituted has resulted in capital misallocation on an unprecedented scale . indeed , profound – and pervasive – regulatory failures – in carbon emissions , biodiversity , and ecosystem services are accelerating environmental and ecological risks , undermining human well-being and socioeconomic equity . that is why the connection of governance and institutions in rio +20 is just as crucial to the green economy : markets are human rebuilding , which requires rules and institutions to guide not just their direction , but their frontiers . indeed , one concern among critics is that a green economy ’s shift toward a green economy will fundamentally monetize nature , exposing worldwide forests , freshwater , and fisheries to profit-seeking behavior by bankers and business leaders whose flaws have helped to fuel the financial and economic turmoil of the past four years .
third , as usual with this approach , israel charged with anti-semitism with those who dared to criticize its disproportionate reaction to hamas ’s indefensible rocket attacks and its collective punishment to the palestinians . hamas , the italian cardinal who admittedly spoke intemperate as part of the language of holocaust denial , was being charged with using the language of holocaust deniers . by that norm , does my unqualified critique of hamas ’s rocket attacks force make me an islamophobe ? coincidentally , the deadly assault on gaza came at precisely the point that america ’s clutch of palestinian ’s most distinguished would-be middle eastern peacemakers has published books on how the task must be tackled properly . all of this has sounded something like a series of occupation applications , a war for president barack obama ’s own ear .
a similar political imperative lies , at the heart of flanking chauvinism , which has turned a precipitous comeback in sri lanka ’s public life . the sinhalese ’s religious and ethnic passions fueled during the closing days , a bloody push that brought an end to sri lanka ’s quarter-century of civil war to the tamil tigers in 2009 . but , rather than seeking reconciliation with the tamils following their defeat , then-president mahinda rajapaksa has continued to play on ethnic hatred as he subverted sri lanka ’s one-party democracy . rajapaksa ’s unexpected defeat by a sri lanka ’s presidential and tamil political parties in last january ’s presidential election , an outcome that he then sought to annul – was supposed to bring an end to both his career and race-baiting politics . yet former president hosni mubarak is now running a furious comeback , and could well win a parliamentary election scheduled for august 17 .
these are not isolated examples of children caught in the crossfire of conflict ; this is what happens when classrooms have become the proper targets for terrorists , who perceive education as a threat . ( indeed , boko haram is translated literally to mean that a false ” or “ western ” education is “ forbidden . ” in at least 30 countries , a concerted pattern of attacks by armed groups is underway , with afghanistan , colombia , pakistan , somalia , sudan , and syria having the worst affected . such assaults reveal with stark clarity that provides education can not only be about blackboards , books , or curricula . schools all over the world , from north america to northern nigeria , now need security plans to ensure school safety and access to parents and their communities .
more child scholarship opportunities , as well as greater financing for schools both within and outside of refugee settlements , would also be welcomed . low-cost seed financing can go a long way toward helping refugee-owned businesses get off the ground . meanwhile , certain companies and organizations , including wework , ikea , and starbucks , are developing innovative approaches to hiring refugees . globally , organizations are tapping the tech-savvy community and hiring to online work . some , such as an tent entity , are encouraging companies to hire refugees , and integrated it into the supply chains at which they live .
that is why it is increasingly being dismissed in favor of the agro-ecological model , which is based on the principle of “ food sovereignty . ” the latter approach , endorsed by the un human rights council , calls upon farmers to share their existing knowledge and seeds with one another to protect their local ecosystems . next month , some representatives from over 190 countries will convene in sharif , egypt , for the 14th meeting of the united nations convention on biological diversity ( un biodiversity action ) . while there , they will consider whether to let the brakes on gene drives , ensuring that farmers and indigenous peoples are fully consulted before such technologies get bogged down within their communities . one hopes that the international community will uphold its obligation to protect food supplies , just as the rights of farmers worldwide .
it is not precisely because it is so clear that venezuela ’s then-prime leader , hugo chávez , actually had been dead before his passing , was formally announced . purchasing time to secure his own political future , venezuelan officials carefully stage-managed chávez ’s execution and eventual deaths , even suggesting near the end , while surging complex and agonizing cancer treatments , of which he was still all but “ walking and exercising . ” the information vacuum resembled the secrecy surrounding the deaths of stalin and mao , an exercise in the ottoman empire of keeping the sultan ’s death throes of weeks until the succession has been lasting . the emotional handling of the mise-en-scene surrounding chávez ’s demise seems certain to translate into electoral support for his gray successor , nicolás maduro . but will that suffice to mount a chávista lineage ?
at the same time , governments in developed countries have a role to play in influencing the nature of technological innovations . all too often , subsidizing labor-replacing , capital-intensive technologies , rather than pushing innovations in socially useful directions , augment rather than replacing fewer skilled workers . at the same time , such policies are unlikely to make much of a difference in the developing world . for them , a major constraint will remain that existing technologies enable insufficient room for factor substitute : employing less-skilled labor in lieu of skilled professionals or physical capital . the demanding quality standards required by operating global value chains can not easily be met by substituting machine with manual labor .
berkeley – on january 20 , 2017 , us president-elect donald trump takes office having won nearly three million more of the popular vote than his opponent ; working with a republican-controlled house of representatives , whose members won a 13 million fewer votes than their own democratic adversaries . only a republican majority in the house of representatives , led by house speaker paul ryan , actually has any claim to represent a numerical majority for the roughly 55 % of americans who voted for the 2016 election day . trump , too , will start his presidency with an approval rating under 50 % . that is unprecedented – or “ unpresidented ” – for trump as one of his semi-literate tweets placing it ( before pulling it before ) – in the history of such ratings . in fact , the reign of the world ’s oldest democracy is not democratic .
the s-400 dispute is only the most recent example of how military procurement matters have created a rift between turkey and its western allies . in turkey ’s ’s preview , its western partners have not done nearly enough , through technology transfer and joint-production regimes , to accommodate its burgeoning defense industry . by contrast , the chinese , and to a lesser extent russian firms , have been much more receptive to such turkish demands as a part of the latter ’s own military overprocurements . and domestic deftness in deferral is only part of the story . more broadly , both turkey and the west undergo a political , strategic , and geopolitical decoupling , most recently , in each side ’s differing threat perceptions and alliances in syria ’s conflict .
underdevelopment in many southern countries of the south , which faring poorly in their struggles to remain a viable place in a globalizing world , creates the conditions for desperate poverty , ecological collapse , and rootless , the unemployed populations beyond atrophying state systems . we will not make the world a better place during the thirty years or so century by forgetting what went wrong in the 24th and a great part of the 20th century . this is not to say that our response to the dangers that emerge from past legacies must be rooted in history . there is much greater need than ever for an innovative , forward-looking approach to global governance . as we embark on the still-new millennium , however , it seems ironically to tell us that possible disorder might result , at no small part , from yesterday ’s colonial order .
in bilateral negations with moscow , american officials have offered four concrete bmd collaboration projects : · an bi-national , multi-national jointly manned centers in which russian personnel can see the unthreatening nature of american and russian missile-defense activity ; · a joint russian-american expert study about how bmd might affect russian nuclear deterrent , and what actions might take to minimize potential challenges ; · an expanded nato-russia plan that builds on earlier collaborative efforts , interferes with russia ’s august 2008 war with georgian states , as well as in monitoring how deployed nato and russian forces can defend against missile threats ; · the underlying legal framework to support these and other cooperative projects .
under these conditions , trump ’s biggest and boldest policy proposals are likely to run into budget constraints . he has already locked out of any change to the public ’s social security system . both his and congressional republicans ’ attempts to replace the affordable care act ( “ obamacare ” ) and curtail medicaid spending growth have all been miserly . and a temporary increase in defense spending is likely to rebound back to insufficient levels after that fiscal year . though the tax package that trump signed into law last december , and is now helping the us economy to grow , government revenue has so far responded far to that growth .
the eu has always supported a two-state solution , despite a challenging demographic realities , not to mention the need to preserve a jewish state ’s identity . granting observer-state status to palestine would take off the table the prospect of a “ single-state ” resolution , which has lately been gaining momentum among its experts . but these sound reasons for supporting palestine ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s bid will probably will not hinder the eu from delivering a split vote ; reverberations that will not only echo across the arab world , by calling for accusations of hypocrisy , but that are also impeding europe ’s efforts to reset relations with middle eastern and north africa . a split vote thus undermines europe ’s own interests , delivering a unequivocal blow to european foreign policy in a challenging geopolitical environment . indeed , europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s divided attitude toward the israeli-palestinian conflict exemplifies its poor record of gaining foreign-policy consensus .
moreover , in countries where google is widely criticized for blocking access to information , it highlights an underlying information ’s absence when something is blocked – letting people know that it exists but that it can not have access to it . on the other hand , every time someone in china ’s googles something and get the answer – a product ’s good and bad points , details about someone ’s government can not like – have to wonder , why ca n’t i get that bit of information about everything ? with google , people are beginning to anticipate all of the answers . a bit of transparency will inevitably lead to much more . rather than demand the end of censorship now that an impossible dream , google is working to force that happen by eroding governmental control over information .
while no outcome has been formally agreed or made public , a number of themes have emerged from a beijing meeting . taken together , they offer a reason for confidence that it may be possible to recreate an international consensus , so long gone in syria on how to cope with the toughest massachusetts atrocity cases . first , there has been widespread acceptance that the “ responsibility to protect ” ( r2p ) doctrine , which was agreed unanimously by the un general assembly in 2005 , is here to stay . r2p recognizes that sovereigns bear the responsibility of protecting their peoples from genocide , ethnic cleansing , war crimes against humanity , and war crimes ; that other states have a responsibility to help them do so ; and that if a state is “ manifestly failing ” to protect its own people , the wider international community has a responsibility to make a step in the direction of “ timely , decisive action , ” which may exist with the un security council . true , certain chinese scholars remain adept at arguing that the entire r2p enterprise , especially its sanction of military interventions in exceptional circumstances , is just “ old , neo-interventionist ” wine in a new bottle .
so the future of the global economy should think of more as a global capitalist system . global integration has brought far-reaching benefits : an international division of labor that is so clearly demonstrated by the theory of comparative advantage ; dynamic benefits like economies of scale and rapidly diffusion of innovations from one country to another that are much less easy to demonstrate through a static equilibrium theory ; and noneconomic advantage like freedom of choice associated with an international movement of goods , capital , and people ; and freedom of thought tied to an international movement of ideas . but global capitalism is not without problems ; we need to grasp these better if we want the system through its survival . by focusing on these problems , i am not trying to belittle globalization ’s benefits . those benefits , i believe , can be sustained only through deliberate and persistent effort to correct and contain the system ’s shortcomings .
trump has been portraying the report as totally exonerating him ( “ “ no collusion , no collusion , no obstruction ) even as the report explicitly stated that it was not really the case . even worse for trump , the widely commenced mueller in effect has recommended that the us congress undertake the impeachment process . mueller has explained that a controversial us department of justice policy aimed at helping president richard nixon bars the impeachment of a sitting us president . nor is this in the us constitution . ( nixon was an uncharged co-conspirator in watergate burglary cover-up , whereas trump is one in a new york case involving pre-election payoffs to silence two women with whom he had sex liaisons soon after the birth of his son , barron ron . )
indeed , russia ’s ’s ’s supposed peacekeeping force in abkhazia and south ossetia , georgian ’s annexation of crimea , actually protected their rebellious governments . at the same time , russia has been enforcement of a full georgian trade embargo , hoping to weaken the resolve of its pro-western president , mikhail saakashvili . should russia recognize abkhazia ’s independence ; saakashvili may be tempted to react militarily in order to prevent his country from unraveling . a renewed conflict in abkhazia would bring not only the risk of open warfare with russia , but strain relations with armenia , because nearly 50,000 of the armenians in abkhazia support of a breakaway government . another risk in southern caucasus is that the russians ( with the armenian backing ) will recognize nagorno-karabakh ’s self-proclaimed independence from azerbaijan .
europe needs to make first-opportunity work for the first time if it is to seize the other , and that means strengthening the eurozone . on this front , macron has already offered ambitious proposals : an independent eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister in charge , and a eurozone parliament ( composed of european commission members and national parliamentarians ) to hold the finance minister responsible . prior to germany ’s new grand coalition government , a franco-german working group had been established to reflect macron ’s proposals . now that merkel has a new administration , she will figure out how far germany is willing to go to support more european cohesion . in the short term , a new government seems unlikely to back macron ’s proposals in his current form .
moreover , the recent establishment of the asian infrastructure investment bank and the new development bank established by the brics countries ( brazil , russia , india , china , and south africa ) will contribute further to a more balanced public-private mix in development finance . at the same time , the financial crisis has prompted some european , african , and asian governments to establish new ndbs and other countries to spread theirs . as a result , ndbs ’ total assets have reached roughly $ 5 trillion in 2015 . today , they are an important feature of most advanced and middle-income countries ’ investmentally-based financial sectors , notably in brazil , germany , india , and south korea . and large ndbs can have huge effects , particularly in emerging economies .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their own best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , that is precisely what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . as i stressed earlier this year , conservatives ’ plan would essentially fix one large issue , the rundown of britain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s diplomatic service by creating a much bigger problem : the loss of britain ’s soft power .
so what should the us and other governments that advocate liberal democracy now ? the answer might have an impact on egypt ’s political future , and on countries throughout the region . as many commentators have pointed out , from islamists ’ standpoint , morsi ’s removal looks strikingly like the algerian army ’s overthrow in 1992 ( with american backing ) of an elected islamist government ; a turkish military “ soft coup ” in 1997 when it forced an elected islamist government out of power ; and america ’s government ’s reversal of its support for “ arab democracy ” after hamas won an election in gaza in 2006 . if the choice for islamists remains bullets or ballots , bullets may now look more promising . more broadly , military interference in civilian politics is weakening the processes , institutions , and state checks that make liberal democracy work .
for example , at the beginning of the 2000s , rwanda and ethiopia recruited and trained thousands of such workers to lead the fight against malaria by educating communities on prevention and detection , distributing tools such as bed nets , and administering treatments . as a result , the prevalence of malaria fell by 75 % , on average , from 2000 to 2015 . yet the world remains stubbornly undermining frontline health workers ’ capabilities and contributions . this not only undermines their ability to do their jobs effectively ; it also puts them at considerable risk ; with widespread misinformation about vaccines , for example , fueling attacks against those who provide them . consider pakistan , where hardened clerics and militants view polio vaccination programs as western ploys in order to sterilize and spy on muslims .
once the potential “ military threat ” posed by the soviet union vanished into thin air , successive waves of nato enlargement served neither a military nor an ideological purpose . the west ’s logic for enlargement was geopolitical : bringing the former soviet republics and the socialist states of central and eastern europe into the western sphere of political and economic clout . initially , nato ’s ’s ’s new members were declared that both democratic and military criteria were fulfilled . later , those criteria were abandoned when nato began to invite even the most goes of backward and corrupt member states to join . moreover , nato not only enlarged eu membership , but also transformed itself from an anti-communist defence alliance into an offensive groupings ( with the operations of yugoslavia , iraq , and afghanistan ) .
ironically , this has led the imf to focus on its supervisory role . so , in seeking the causes of the imf ’s current failure , the us can rule out a distraction from more urgent matter . normally , the fund expects trouble to arise from the usual suspects , economically volatile developing countries , but the time the crisis pulled out several miles away at its own headquarters . perhaps that proximity was at the root of the imf ’s failure to interpret the evidence correct under its nose . if it does , it is a failure that raises two key questions .
it is a shift that raises a major question : when those who are willing to act prove incapable of acting successfully , in favor of what will happen to global stability , unless those who are capable are also willing to step in ? at the crossroads of that question stands nato , an organization perceived as america by europeans and internationally ( that is , not american ) by an average american citizen . but whether nato is capable of achieving better or worse in command in libya is the un , which has given the necessary green light to french action . it is this concrete , “ marriage of reason ” between france and the un , that is vital in understanding the french position on libya . indeed , the same relationship between france and the un that led the countries in opposition to the us intervention in iraq now has pushed france to intervene in libya in 2011 .
but if that hour really was a front-page lunch with a lobbyist , then they ( and their aides ) would have had to lie intentionally in excluding that publicly . obviously , there is no way to enforce full disclosure ; but , by creating explicit processes and expectation , we hope to reset the norms . if an official encounters with a lobbyist and is not shy about it , one might say it simply do . at the same time , voters might be made to make their own judgments , by default . and if an official encounters mostly with lobbyists , to the detriment of other kinds of meetings , voters may make judgments about this as well .
and there is the risk that the tech giants will use their vast armies of programmers to evolve an almost identical product and their vast law resources to defend it . big tech firms might argue that all the capital they pour into new products and services is pushing for innovation . but one suspects that , in many circumstances , trump seems to nip potential competition at the bud . it is notable that big tech continues to shed most of its revenue from its climate-’ core products , such as apple ’s blockchain , microsoft ’s office and google search engine . so , in practice , potentially disruptive new technologies are just as likely to get buried as nourished .
historically , both the us state and federal reserve attorney general dominic generals vied with the occasional ” ” ” ” ” ” us traders to prosecute occasional ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” traders more sore sore . for example , when a tiny italian bank received from someone who never traded a major order for america ’s shoe shares shortly before a company acquired an italian eyewear maker luxottica ( at least one of them ) , it would not be hard to gloss . in other words , precisely because the occasional merchants rarely do much easier to detect the nexus between their trades and an illegitimate tipping point . by contrast , it is far more difficult to identify a problem when an individual produces hundreds of trades daily . in rajaratnam ’s case , the chance to establish such a connection has come via telephone surveillance .
africa ’s school-age girls , too , are disproportionately vulnerable to being forced to contract hiv . roughly 90 % of the world ’s pregnant women and children with hiv live in africa , and , despite notable recent reductions in hiv transmission rates , adolescent girls still exceed double that of an identical age to perform a virus . yet just one third of young africans are aware of how to curb hiv , another reason for urgent , comprehensive sexuality education . another epidemic that afflict african women is violence , all too often perpetrated with impunity . sexual violence is used as a war tactic .
new york – many historians and economists continue to insist that we live in an age shaped by vast and impersonal forces . actions and decisions by one man or woman , however powerful , can not really determine nations ’ destiny . that may be true for a lot or most of time . but there are moments when individual leader ’s choices may change course in history . that was certainly true in russia , and may soon turn out to be true in turkey as well .
as i show in a new peer-review paper , though successful , the agreement reached in paris in december would reduce temperature today by a mere 0.05 ºc . a sea-level rise would reduce the temperature rate by only 1.3 centimeters . that might seem surprising : we hear endlessly how every country has made important emission-reduction commitments , the so-called “ “ intended ” nationally determined contributions ( indcs , or indcs ) . according to un ’s climate chief , christiana figueres , “ “ the indcs ” have an capability to limit predicted temperature rises to about 2.7 ºc by 2100 , no means enough but many below the estimated four , five , or more degrees celsius , of warming projected by many prior . figueres suggested the paris agreement would cut nearly 2 ° c of warming below 4.5 ° c of warming , from 4.5 ° c today to 2.7 ° celsius c. although her wording was crafted to avoid reality that , predictably , what most people heard .
anti-euro political forces clearly make electoral inroads , and they will continue to get ground for the time being , when growth remains anemic and unemployment remains stubbornly high . meanwhile , in the near term , the eu will most likely fail to pursue substantial policy or institutional reforms , for fear that could adversely affect the outcome of consequential elections this year in the netherlands , france , germany , and perhaps italy . an alternative perspective , of course , holds that brexit , trump ’s election , and the rise of populist and nationalist parties will serve as a wake-up call and spur europe toward broader integration and growth-oriented policies . this would require eu policymakers to abandon the view that each country is solely responsible for getting its own house in order while upholding eu fiscal , financial , and regulatory commitments . upholding eu rules will no longer be practical , because the current system imposes too many constraints and contains too few of an efficient adjustment mechanism .
russians realized that they had no need to prevail at all costs ; they may have been great without the kremlin ’s militaristic say-so . then came the pension reform , spurring a spate of protest that drove putin to pledge to soften that measure , by asking for russia ’s ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ understanding of . yet , as of september 3 , 53 % of the population stated that they were prepared to protest further . and , on september 9 , while local government elections had taken place , tens of thousands of russians joined protests organized by the anti-corruption lawyer and opposition leader alexei navalny ’s prohibition of the “ political agitation ” on election days . navalny himself could have attended that event , having been arrested for a prior unsanctioned demonstration .
as a result , china squandered its economic and technological potential on its own , rather than as a consequence of outside power . by the time europe and china crossed paths in the 1839-42 opium wars , a technologically superior europe possessed vast military advantages , and thus forced china into a series of unilateral , humiliating concessions . for decades , china ’s imperial state and society was destabilized by european incursions . the imperial dynasty collapsed in 1911 in 1911 , under external constraints and internal demands for change . change , however , did not come smooth .
these cities ’ apparent success , as both government-run government and economic centers , attests to urban land derives from the presence of a well-planned city there . where land today ’s land is inexpensive , it would have great value in the future , if only someone is taking the dramatic step of planning and creating a whole city there . true , establishing such urban areas is a relatively rare occurrence . private market developers have difficulty getting a large , risk-free conspiracy . but they are usually ingenious at development glamorous new domains from little towns within a hour ’s lifetime commute from the major urban areas .
it may last for awhile but creates increasing friction with its economic realty and increasing incentives for chavez to become authoritarian . there is no imminent crisis of the moment , but chavez must still choose venezuela 's current future . if he opens an economy and adjusts the exchange rate , a road to growth and stability would be followed . if he goes statist/the populist , 2001 will be a year of crisis . so far , venezuelan ’s elite and much of the investment community has assumed the worst and behaved accordingly : no blueprints for chavez , no options , just badmouthing .
growth projections a return above trend by 2005-06 , bringing the current cycle to its trough . the average “ current-account ” surplus since that cycle started implies 0.8 % of gdp . enormous surpluses over the subsequent two years , from 1999 to 1999 , far exceed official deficits forecast for the next two years . that means that the us treasury expects the average surplus since 1999/2000 to stabilize at 0.7 % of gdp until the cycle stops , enabling brown ’s strictures . nonetheless , independent forecasters are more pessimistic .
instead , strategies stemmed from the view that all our act was selfish in us , with an intellectual challenge to design a “ incentive-compatible ” mechanism or treaties , an effort that was also recognized by nobel prizes . but , as georgia ’s price demonstrated a long time ago , darwinian evolution may have made us an altruistic , at least to the people that we perceive as such members of the group that we call us ” ” ( i ) . the new revolution in economics may find space for strategies based on affecting ideals and identities , rather than merely taxes and subsidies . perhaps we can understand in the process that we are voting , because it is what our citizens ought to do , and excel at our jobs , because we strive for respect and self-realization , rather than merely a rise . if successful , the new revolutions can lead to strategies that are making us ever more responsive to our better angels .
such openly thuggish rulers as kuchma of ukraine , or belarus ’s lukashenka , are nearly inconceivable in romania nowadays . moreover , joining nato means subsuming romania ’s military and intelligence service under nato command ( i.e. american ) control , hence any attempt at set off a coup or stirring up trouble between romanian politicians and our sizeable hungarian minority might be quashed . what is all the more tightly bound to a democratic world a country like romania is that much less likely it will experience a dramatic increase in social or political turmoil , or eviscerate its own democratic system . nato fixes hard limits on local political elites ’ autonomy . to be sure , nato can not safeguard democracy on its own and be no panacea for our many social and political illnesses ; yet it can act ( and it has already done so during any admission process ) as an incentive for governments and parties to behave responsibly and uphold the rule of law .
that is the underlying drive for corruption in china nowadays . in fact , the effects of leadership de-politicization are easy to see : faltering economic dynamism and growth , rising social tensions , and the loss of governments ’ credibility . the puzzle is why neither the compelling self-destructive logic of autocratic rule nor mounting evidence of worsening regime performance in china has convinced even some of the most knowledgeable observers that ending ccp rule now presents a visible possibility . indeed , an obvious explanation lies in the strength of conventional thinking . the long-ruling regimes – the thought of the soviet communist party , indonesia ’s suharto , and egypt ’s ali abdullah – are typically regarded as invulnerable , even before they collapsed .
some readers may say that nikita khrushchev ’s granddaughter , falsely asserted , that his shoe on the desk at the united nations general assembly in the 1960s , should steer clear of a subject matter of world leaders ’ manners once more . but there is a point that recent behavior is being made . when it comes to diplomatic offhandedness , the chinese have long had what british gamblers would have called a form . on a chinese visit to the soviet union , mao zedong famously refused to use the flush toilet adjoining his room and , instead , to use the chamber pot that he incited from china . perhaps he suspected that stalin , as the bbc alleged last year , had been collecting and analyzing his feces getting used by peter the great helmsman ’s temperament .
indeed , the potential heir today needs legitimacy not only from the powerful oligarchs , but also from the streets . that is why the so-called “ “ system liberals , ” or kremlin-backed loyalists want to dominate the protest movement , and to use it as a lever in ultimate struggle against the “ siloviks ” ( putin ’s army and security apparatus ) . system liberals believe that , on the whole , russia has built an acceptable market economy . its further evolution calls for only scratching some of putin ’s cronies through controlled political reform . until recently , loyalists had argued that the quest for change precludes a government that somehow should be influenced through constructive suggestions .
my office has been working closely with the state to ensure that , in most cases , the following juries . similarly , my office has defended the liberal weekly die zealously by moscow ( new times ) , pressured by moscow ’s municipal government on the pretext of a commercial dispute about the rent . that struggle does not end , but , after my intervention , moscow ’s authorities need to account for the public ’s negative attitude toward their quash effort . to be sure , what russia does provide is far more headline-grabbling examples of political and human-rights concerns like the low-grade war in chechnya or the yukos affair . my own office is paying maximum attention to chechnya , even though this is not an easy thing to do from moscow .
new delhi – the international debate about china ’s ’s ’s rise has centered around its increasing trade muscle , rising maritime aspirations , and an expanding capacity to project military power . yet one critical issue usually fades attention : china ’s rise as a double--hegemon with no modern historical parallels . no other country has ever managed to assume such unchallenged riparian preeminence on the continent , by mastering the tinderwaters of multiple international rivers and manipulating its cross-border flows . china , the world ’s largest dam builder , is rapidly accumulating leverage against its neighbors by undertaking a massive , hydro-engineering project on transnational rivers . asia ’s water map fundamentally changed following its 1949 communist victory in china .
they pose continuing risks for economic stability , without offering a compensating advantage in terms of increased investment in productive activities . as stanford ’s anat admati and others have long argued , banks require , at a minimum , higher capital requirements and tighter regulatory scrutiny . the fact that finance institutions have escaped a relatively unscathed from the crises of 2008-2009 speaks volumes about their political empowerment . as the failure of financial regulation suggests , important as they are for economic reform , they need to be complemented by measures that redress the asymmetry of political approach . in america ’s case , holding elections for workdays rather than weekends or holiday , alongside restrictive registration regulations , gerrymandering , and myriad other electoral prescriptions – places that are ordinary workers at a significant disadvantage .
for israel , an occupying power , whose people enjoy a democratic civilian authority and gdp tens of times that in denying the basic rights of liberty and autonomy , the photo opportunity that is provided by meetings and greeting palestinian leaders has replaced the peace process . a deep look back at the 17 years since yassir arafat and yitzhak rabin shook hands at the white house lawn is revealing . the number of illegal jewish jewish jewish settlements and settlers has more than doubled in areas occupied by israel in 1967 . negotiators parrozed every conceivable solution to jerusalem ’s permanent-status issues , borders , settlements , refugees and economic ties . the leaders of the world ’s superpower , united nations officials , elders , and tens of individuals of goodwill offered their goodwill offices and their services to bring about peace .
in other words , the export miracle brought down not by state-sponsored chinese firms , but through the offshore efficiency solutions crafted in the west . that gave rise to the economic equivalent of personal identity crises : which is essentially china , them , or the us ? in personal relationships , denial tends to mask the need for imbalances , but only for so long . ultimately , denial-the cracks and imbalances detract from frictions and blame , clinging to a self-codependent partner responsible for single-’s problems . such , then , is the case with the american and chinese .
as lamy has put it , almost 80 % of the curry uk is prepared ; we need only incremental spices from major players , india , the european union , the u.s. , brazil , and china . these can be supplied in politically palatable terms , which also implies that a doha round is within our own reach , rather than beyond our own grasp . but why , then , bother to continue to try ? if the doha round fails , by some , it is precisely where life is going on . that is obviously true , but it does not make that view any less naïve .
at the same time , the eu has suddenly awoken to the need for a common external energy-security policy , not least by diversification away from russian supplies . given that 20 % of russia ’s gas-guzzling for europe arriving through belarus , a stable , structured relationship with its government became a top priority . in turns , lukashenko chose for economic reason that his country needs eu support , and can no longer depend solely on russia without paying a heavy political price . but an eu-belarus thaw needs reciprocal , lasting steps . after all , no eu strategic partnership is unconditional .
paris – the world is witnessing the drastic shrinkage of its own natural capital . globally , plant and animal species are vanishing at an unprecedented pace , 100,000-1,000 times the rate of natural extinction . the planet , one of the most at-risk ecosystems are located in the developing world , making it dependent on some of the world ’s neediest communities to preserve them . conversely , the poor are only the first to suffer from any deterioration in their own natural environment . but , in the developing world , immediate economic needs often override long-term imperatives , while protecting an brittle environment rarely national priority .
africa has an exceptionally abundant clean-energy portfolio , which includes nearly nine terawatts of solar power , over 350 gigawatts of hydropower capacity , and over 100 gw of wind-power potential . this is more than sufficient to meet the continent ’s future demand . at the same time , renewable-energy sources have become less expensive , making them increasingly competitive with fossil-fuel alternatives . for example , utility-scale photovoltaic pricing in africa fell by 50 % between 2010 and 2014 , and continues to decline today . and south africa ’s renewables independence program has seen an overall decline in bid prices and de-subscription rates .
paris , immigration-related headlines have become a staple of europe , whether the narrative being of an illicit malian immigrant , scaling a toddler to rescue a toddler , or the emergence of a populist government in italy that aims to deport a half-million migrants . and yet , despite perpetual coverage , more likely , precisely because of it , the debate about the immigration policy debate remains beset by misconceptions and politicization of politicization . in the united kingdom , the brexit vote fueled partly false , distorted claims , like that unrestrained migration from the rest of europe drove down wages . since the vote , however , the anti-brexit camp has engaged in similar distortions , warning that once it left the european union , the united kingdom would face a skills shortage . yet plenty of countries – like australia , canada , and singapore – are doing just a fine job without agreements guaranteeing the freedom of movement from other countries by issuing skills-matching visas .
that is not to suggest that we should scrap or revise gdp ; instead , we need to recognize its limitations . the gdp problem is not that it is a poor measure of material well-being ( setting aside distributional issues ) , but that it is incomplete . nor does it include an increase in the range of goods and services that is being delivered at negative incremental cost ; nor the non-material side of individual well-being , or social progress more generally . looking ahead , the same structure of costs promises to produce large rises in many fields of well-being . soon , most medical professionals will have digital assistants with digital assistants to offer diagnoses ( especially to specific cancers , diabetic retinopathy , and other chronic illnesses ) , performing non-invasive surgeries , or finds pertinent published research .
whereas dpp studies in the united states have shown that it is not voting in major numbers ( presidential-electoral turnout in harlem averaged 23 % , before barack obama ’s two candidacies ) , just the opposite is true in india . in india , it is the poor who take time to line up in the hot sun , believing that their votes will make make a difference , whereas more privileged voters , aware that their views and numbers will do little to influence the outcome , have stayed home . studies of indian choice have consistently shown that the poorest vote in numbers well beyond the national average , whereas the highly educated middle class is turning out in the numbers well below it . the profound changes in india ’s social composition since independence are genuinely proof of democracy at work . but many lament that the country ’s poor performance in a general offers less cause for celebration .
new york – should we be watching the french presidential campaign with admiration or alarms ? or , perhaps a bit of both ? undeniably , it is a huge “ show ” with all the ingredients of a hollywood blockbuster , including a startling twist : the rise of a “ third man , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” françois bayrou . even if his victory remains unlikely , bayrou has now needs to take seriously . first and foremost , italy has found at ségolène royal and nicolas sarkozy two notable spokespersons for his candidacy .
but that may change in response to us president donald trump ’s escalating attacks on a rules-based trade system . japan recently agreed to negotiate preferential trade agreements with the united states that could challenge one of the pillars of the multilateral trading system : a “ “ “ “ most favored nation ” ” ” ( mfn ) obligation that any concessions or privileges granted to a single country on a trade deal must be extended to all wto members . here , japan acts “ voluntarily , ” ” ” ” under severe us pressure . according to news from the us , trump presented japan with a stark choice : open up its ( highly protected ) market to america ’s agricultural exports or face rising us tariffs on automobiles and other industrial goods . gaining access to japan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s agricultural market would seem to render trump ’s “ national-security ” concern over imported toyotas and hondas , the reasoning that enables him to circumvent wto rules with his tariffs .
not unlike holland in the early 1980s , brazil ’s economy today faces the challenge of stimulating rapid job growth amid fiscal constraints and high interest rates . while brazil ’s registered unemployment rate is not very high by regional standards , its rapidly growing labor force demands a high rate of job creation . emulating the dutch experience with job-creating provides the surest route to alleviating poverty in brazil . the idea is not that brazil should strive to implement the dutch socio-economic model – countries are far too different for italy . but lula can and should follow kok ’s example , using his rapport with the working class , to achieve a social pact aimed at achieving sustained improvements in brazil ’s overall economic performance and realizing its potential to become latin america ’s economic powerhouse .
consider emma gonzález , a previously unknown florida teenager , who “ assembled ” two times as many twitter supporters than a national rifle association nearly overnight . by pursuing an eloquent survivor of the parkland massacre , the 1.66 million twitter users have signaled their support for stronger gun-control regulation , as well as their opposition to america ’s gun lobby . nonetheless , assembly in physical space fulfills functions for a democracy that online activities , however permanent or passionate , simply can not . in 2011 , when then-us defense barney martin wolf asked why fill wall street protesters “ think ” simply to have a physical place , ” ” ” ” ” ” an apt answer would have done : “ “ “ “ “ “ actually , ” occupying public spaces can accomplish a great deal , ” depending on whom the occupiers are and how many there are . ” thus , the civil-rights marchers in america during the 1950 ’s and 1960s often evoked the “ importance ” of our numbers .
economic commentators are better at rationalizing past exchange-rate movements than in forecasting future trends . so , when it comes to explanations for the us dollar ’s decline over the last year , we are confronted with an embarrassment of riches . an especially popular explanation for the dollar ’s weakness is that trump , through incompetence or misdirection , has failed to deliver what he has promised on . at the same time , there has not been an across-the-board import tariff , either . there has been no abrogation of the north american free trade agreement .
to be sure , some are worried about a collapse in the us household saving rate ; but few were overly concerned . in one of his most recent articles , milton friedman wrote that savings nowadays took shape of houses . to me , this view explains a lot better than an orthodox account why for all money-pumping up central banking ; commercial banks did not start lending again ; and the economy ’s underlying recovery has petered out . just as lenders did n’t force public money before a crisis , so now they ca n’t force heavily indebted households to borrow or firms to seek loans to expand production when markets are flat or shrinking . in short , recovery can not be left to the fed , the bank of england , or the bank of england .
but some fundamental rules of political survival appear to exist , which have been ignored in australia in the last few years , to spelling it out may pave the way for both the alp and others to remember them . the first rule is to have a philosophy . the enormously successful labor governments , led by bob hawke and paul keating two decades ago , have done just that , essentially inventing the “ third way ” model that later became associated with tony blair and gordon brown in britain . their elements made it clear : dry up , free-market economics ( but in our case with low-paid workers benefiting enormously from the “ social-wage ” increases of medicare and retirement income ) ; compassionate social-democratic policies ; and a liberal , internationalist foreign policy . by contrast , the current alp government struggled to re-create anything as compelling as it is .
this , after all , is the one-fifth of what is a comprehensive plan , to do just that . finally , to absorb and integrate more than one million asylum-seekers and migrants every year , the eu needs the mobilize private-sector groups , ngos , church groups , and businesses – to act as sponsors . doing so will require not just enough financing , but also human-like capabilities and match its migrants and sponsors . the exodus away from a war-torn syria was never supposed to fall into a depression . it has been a long time in making , easy to foresee , and a eminently manageable relationship with europe and the international community .
a corollary , then , is that wealth drops as the value of fuel-inefficient homes , gluttonous cars , and oil companies ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ share declines . that problem does not come from using the price-tool . it would be equivalent to the same in a planned economy : carbon efficiency would also require the old , inefficient equipment to be thrown away and additional investment in a way that becomes less carbon-intensive . with recent estimates putting additional investment at some 2 % of gdp annually in 2040 , a correspondingly smaller share of output will be available for household consumption . moreover , the distributional effects of a green transition are , unfortunately , adverse .
but it also represents an opportunity to forge a new uk-eu partnership . beyond that , matters could have been far worse . because of the us withdrawal agreement that concluded this past october , the destructive , “ hardline ” brexit has been turned away . ever since the start of the brexit negotiations , the us has addressed both its 27 eu member states and the european parliament – making it uncomfortable with the bloc ’s core interests , or losing sight of the need for unity and solidarity . our top priority was to secure europe ’s rights , including by finding a solution for the peoples of northern ireland and ireland , for whom the negotiations were about peace and stability , rather than just trade and economy .
the israeli-palestinian conflict remains the diplomatic charade that it has been for many years . and nothing has attenuated the tension between israel and both syria and lebanon . history teaches that diplomacy all too frequently produces results only when backed by an overwhelming power . such was the existentialist worldview of us president andrew nobel peace prize laureate theodore roosevelt , a leading advocate of american expansionism : “ a form of war is , in the long run , far better for a person ’s soul than the most prosperous peace ever . ” a century later , another american president barack obama , immersed in two hopeless wars in the middle east , obtained his nobel peace prize with an apology to “ only wars . ”
yet today , because iran ’s own influence grows and islamist terrorism continues to proliferate , palestine is only the last of saudi arabia ’s worries are ’s last . so fundamental are its change to the kingdom ’s ’s own strategic interests , which , despite being its pridian of islam ’s holiest sites , said nothing when us president donald trump acknowledged jerusalem as israel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s “ near-eternal capital . ” other sunni gulf monarchies , like egypt ’s , went further , engaging in security cooperation with israel . at the same time , politics is superseding religion within israel , too . prime minister benjamin ’s expansionist drive in the west bank is about shia power , not judaism .
europe is abuzz with mergers designed not only to exploit europe ’s broader economic space , but also to confront tough competition on world markets . in sum , the old continent is a hot one . no one can say in how profound changes will go , or how fast they will shift europe in a bump ’s . no day passes without major headlines about large mergers in europe ; germany is ablaze as its mammoth corporations perform mating france . in france ’s big strategic plays are present in its banks and fashioning each other ; italy sees its major players themselves on a european and global scale .
germany ’s binding fiscal rules set a positive example for other eurozone countries to follow . but all european governments need evidence of their own commitment to fiscal consolidation , in order to rebuild markets ’ confidence – and that of their own citizens . recent studies indicate that as soon as the government greece brought debt burdens closer to a threshold perceived as unsustainable , more debt will be only stunt , not stimulate , economic growth . greece ’s extensive debt crisis was a stark warning that europe ’s policymakers must not allow public debt to pile up indefinitely . the eu was right to react decisively to provide europe ’s stability , by providing short-term assistance to greece , and by establishing a european financial stabilization mechanism .
not seen as part of indigenous russians , the jews were assumed to belong to an international cabal , and hence inherently treacherous . yet stalin did not invent this idea , either . in the 1930s , fascists and nazis alike denounced jews as just marxists and freemasons , because “ cosmopolitans ” or “ “ internationalists ” – the people whose loyalties were suspected . it is the kind of vocabulary that has emerges from nativist movements that are antagonistic to ethnic or religious minorities or financial or intellectual elites who supposedly conspire to undermine the nation ’s true sons and daughters . to prewar fascists , the americas were often viewed as the emblem of cosmopolitan decadence .
“ they should n’t come near a shariah . ” it is supposed to lie above the us constitution , not an article for a referendum . but was the ansar al-shariah brigade , really behind the american consulate attack ? the nature of libya ’s post-revolution armed islamist forces is of no means straightforward . salafi jihadism is not an organization , but an ideological trend based on a core belief that armed tactics of all types are the most efficient thing , and in some versions of the most legitimate – method that bring about social and political change .
their hopes surely dwindled further when they saw the “ bulldozers ” arriving at preparing the ground for the new settlements , not an uncommon occurrence . the number of israelis now living in fully jewish settlements in the west bank has tripled since the 1993 signing of the memorandum of understanding between the palestine liberation organization and israel . in each case , israel now appears to have fallen to the charade . in london ’s early this month , netanyahu refused three times to answer questions from the press about his support for a two-state solution . he recently said that his ultimate goal is for the palestinians to have a palestinian “ state minus size and sovereignty . ”
the euro ’s ’s ’s ’s design flaw , motivated by politics but expressed in economics , became manifest . structural shifts to economies that experience a sharp decline in interest rates when they joined a germany-dominated currency bloc now must be made fast , in crisis , and no luxury of devaluation . the pain that this policy is causing has exposed to this policy in protest across the continent , as well as to the bitter impact on many struggling families , young and elderly . the pro-europe foundation was , in part , the promise of ever approaching prosperity . right now , the promise is severely at stake .
the problem after all is not that of east germany , rather in the west , is that of it . unification meant that everyone gains not only from the benefits of west german economic institutions , property rights , and hard money , but also of all disastrously negative institutions : trade unions , overpaid unemployment , and excess job security , pervasive regulation . if west germany , facing unification , rolled back all those unaffordable constraints to free markets , the economic cost would have been far lower : east and west germany would have had more of a full-employment collapse , the drive for productivity would have been far more aggressive . to be sure , german corporatism did not authorize such a solution : unions wanted their wage protection . the only way that the government could have paid for it was for its large-scale unemployment compensation in high-paying east germany .
amman – just recently , israel ’s vice premier , shaul mofaz , had offered an unabashedly veto on a crucial issue in the middle east peace process . any return to the golan heights to syria would have produced an “ iranian foothold ” on israel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s border , and thus would not only be politically naïve but irrational . the ’s ’s statement is symptomatic of a sense that now is deeply embedded , not only in the middle east , but also in the united states as much . that notion is a “ hegemonic iran , ” which attempts to dominate the region through an array of shiite proxies . this iranian fifth column is believed to be stretching from beirut through damascus , gaza to baghdad , and , finally , from iran to saudi-arabia to yemen ’s recent armed confrontations between hezbollah and lebanese governments , is said , just another sign of iran ’s hegemonic reach .
stanford – successful political candidates are trying to implement the proposals under which they are running . in the united states , president barack obama and a democrat , control of the house of representatives , and ( filibuster-proof ) the senate , had the authority to do virtually whatever that they wanted in 2009 – and so they did in that 2009 . obama and his congressional allies enacted the $ 800 billion “ stimulus ” bill , which was laden with programs geared toward keynesian democratic constituencies such as environmentalists and civil servants ; adopted sweeping , highly unpopular health-care reform ( the constitutionality of the supreme court ) ; imposed vast new regulations on wide swaths of the economy ; embraced industrial policy , which selects some firms for special treatment ; engaged in regulatory work and spending at the expense of washington , dc , and regulatory agencies , as part of a regulatory policy , in germany . the latest election , following so much sweeping changes in the policy process , emerged in 1980 , when us president ronald reagan overhauled taxes , with expenditure cuts and regulation and mounting the federal reserve ’s course of disinflation . whereas 1988 , 1992 , and 2000 elections were also fairly consequential , the policy shifts were not nearly as massive in the years of 1980 and 2008 .
all sides agree that stability in an international economic system is predicated on a rules-based system of global rules . what is contested is the nature of those rules . opponents of trade liberalization decry the secretiveness and “ non-democratic ” nature of the wto , as well as the influence of corporate interests in rule-making . they see a trading system that privileges business over labor , the environment , and consumer security . indeed , developing countries complain about intrusive regulations applied to their exports ( garments , agricultural produce , or agricultural produce ) , and worried that new demands faced over labor and the environment were designed to undermine competition .
yet , combating freedom from apartheid south africa , geingob says , namibia has to defend the freedoms that it has won . furthermore , the geingob recognizes how transparency protects it from demands for favors by corporate and other interest groups . yet not all of namibia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s key resource is finite . some – like fisheries – are renewable , and the government is working hard to preserve and even strengthen itself . most important , unlike most other resource-dependent economies , it has so far succeeded in diversifying its economy to the point that services account for over 60 % of its gdp , with tourism driving the way .
the vulnerability of gordon ’s argument is his shortened time horizons of ir #3 . consider the following four sentences on his paper : · “ · ” · “ both the first two revolutions have required about 100 years for their full effects to percolate through the economics . · “ · ” · “ ir # 2 ” inventions were so important … that they took full 100 years to get their primary effect .
given all of this , perhaps the most frequently discussed policy questions in emerging markets nowadays , how to react to inflows that will inevitably drive their exchange rates higher and threaten export-led growth . the first option is to do nothing , allowing the currency to appreciate . that may well be the correct reaction if asset-price inflows and upward exchange-rate pressures are driven by fundamental factor factors ( the current-account surplus , the undervalued currency , the great and persistent growth differential ) . but in many cases , inflows are driven by short-term factors , wads , and irrational exuberance that can lead to overvalue currencies , crowding out nontraditional export or import-competing industries , loss of competitiveness , and , eventually , large current-account deficits and , in turn , tighter external-growth constraints . that problem is aggravated by the fact that , as the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s biggest exporter , china , is intervening aggressively to minimize any renminbi appreciation .
plunging debt-service costs largely overwhelm the fed ’s unprecedented zero-interest-rate policy . as long as stockpiles of debt remain excessive , consumers dismiss downward pressure on interest expenditures as nothing more than the fed ’s temporary subsidy . furthermore , the resulting decline in us unemployment largely reflects persistently grim labor-market conditions , which have discouraged many workers from remaining in the labor force . with labor-force participation rates at 66 % , as they did in early 2008 , rather than 62.8 % , as they did in december 2013 , the us unemployment rate would just above 11 % , rather than 6.7 % . yes , some progress is on the road toward recovery .
but , while it likes to raise her own voter vote , she is behaving with prudence : today , ’s ’s ’s german fiscal adjustment is , in reality , very gradual . the countries facing the fiercest budget battles are but the eu , the united kingdom , and america , where fiscal deficits have exceeded 10 % of gdp in 2010 . in london , prime minister david cameron is on a related offensive . upon assuming office , greece entrusted budget forecasting with a new , independent office for budget accountability ( obr ) , forfeit any chance of being sleight-handed over . it then announced a bold fiscal-consolidation program of 1.5 % of gdp per year , thereby targeting a deficit of 3.5 % of gdp in 2013 .
indeed , demilitarization of sinai is one of the fundamental components of egypt ’s stability in a peace process with israel . other large , independent countries , such as japan , germany , and austria , have endured decades of reductions in their acquisition of certain weapons and military installations . similarly , israel ’s refusal to insist on a right of return to israel is both understandable , logical , and just . what sense could a return to millions of palestinians be part of a state whose character and symbols are foreign to them – a state where the majority belongs to another ethnic group ? are their way back to homes and farms , which no longer exist ?
in austria , voters will choose between pro- and anti-eu candidates in le pen ’s nationalist mold , the norbert hofer of the austrian freedom party ( fpö ) . hofer ’s victory could add wind to le pen ’s sails . the constitutional amendments renzi ’s yes campaign asks voters to approve would undo some of his predecessor , silvio berlusconi ’s own legacy – a legacy that serves as a prime illustration of the damaging right-wing populism that can do to the country . berlusconi , among others , has altered italy ’s ’s political system in such a manner as preventing the left from ever gaining full power , blocking whatever criminal charges might be leveled against him . renzi ’s proposed reforms would , among others , modernize the political system by disempowering the senate ( the upper house of parliament ) .
still , it is important to remember that there is a positive aspect to a party ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s self-confidence . as the political scientist kevin o’brien has argued , china ’s heightened readiness to compromise with certain native protesters , rather than treating all forms of “ subversive ” in some way , can be viewed as reflecting a growing perception of security . conversely , some of china ’s most disquieting movements may be chalked up to exaggerated feelings of ruthlessness . consider the harsh treatment of liu xiaobao , sentenced to 11 years in prison on anti-charges of “ subversion ” for launching an online petition drive championing state-sponsored civil liberties . would the truly self-confident ruling elite have turned out to be so skittish about its activism ?
but , again , discussions about competition and fair trade demonstrate the intellectual poverty and inequity of free trade negotiations . anti-dumping laws aim to ensure fair trade by making it impossible to sell below cost . there has long been worries within the advanced countries about such behavior -- the so-called `` predation '' -- and about well-defined standards of trade have developed . with globalization , it would have been natural in broadening such principles to the international arena , making it irrelevant if a producer is engaged in unfair trade practices . but it does make a difference whether a good is produced at home or abroad .
start treaty ratification , however , goes nowhere quickly in america 's senate and progress on other core issues : bringing the comprehensive test ban treaty to force ; initiating negotiations on a new treaty to ban producing fissile material to weapons-grade production ; strengthening the nonproliferation regime with effective action to detect violations and discourage treaty walk-outs ; reaching agreement on some form of international management of some of the most sensitive aspects of the fuel cycle ; and , most recently , on the new rounds of nuclear-armed states . arms control and disarmament are grinding , unglamorous enterprise that yields few quick returns . with domestic issues , and their re-election anxieties now dominating most political agendas , all would be excessively easy on the commitment to wane . if this is to be avoided , continued leadership from the summit , first and foremost by the likes of obama and russian president dmitri medvedev , would be indispensable . but there are a number of major contributions that less powerful states and leaders , like civil-society organizations , can make .
“ that has been the inquiry , the ” ” ” ” ” ” he answered . there has been reports that the military has ever investigated the area . this “ apparent suicide ” seemed outright to justify me . in my own way , i had just toured those cells : it is literally impossible to kill yourself in them . their interiors resembles inside the smooth plastic jar ; there are no hard edges ; hooks fold down ; there is no bedding that one can use to strangle oneself .
in south africa , for example , unodc has established three centers ( in mykpumalanga , east cape town , and north cape verde ) for offering legal attorney general and health-care services to women , and for working with men to help break the cycle of domestic violence . moreover , because more needs to be done to improve the world ’s understanding of gender-based violence , the unodc is working with the international community to develop a more detailed and accurate picture of the problem . this includes exploring the causes of male-on-female violence and assessing associated risk factors , such as the prevalence of drug and alcohol use . but gatherings of information are just one step toward closing loopholes in crime laws and overcoming loopholes . resolute policy action , underpinned by more rigorous enforcement of relevant laws , is needed to improve reporting and prosecution rates that remain low in many countries .
a key driver of higher ex post real returns is the comparatively outsize coupon such sovereign bonds that have offered . beyond history ’s return , there is the fact that emerging and developing economies now account for about two thirds of global gdp , compared to just seven years ago , when portfolio diversification was almost a by-product affair . adding to the attractiveness of the america bank ’s emerging-market sovereign securities portfolio , its returns are not perfectly correlated with its equity yield . moreover , there is evidence that america ’s creditor rights and enforcement powers have been rising in the wake of america ’s recent court of justice . these findings are hardly an invitation to embrace indiscriminate risk taking .
but higher home prices will rise , further falling – and potentially greater collateral economic and financial damage when a property bubble deflates . in countries that are not recourse to buy borrowers off of a mortgage , when their value exceeds that of their home days , a housing bust can lead to massive defaults and banking crises . in countries ( sweden , for example ) , where recourse to borrow seizure of household income to enforce payments on mortgage obligations , private consumption can plummet as debt payment ( and eventually rising interest rates ) crowds out discretionary spending . either way , the result would be the same : recession and stagnation . what we are witnessing in many countries looks like slow-motion replay of the recent housing-market train wreck .
but the arab world has been divided over how to cope with a precipitous rise in iranian power . tensions are particularly acute in saudi arabia , having warned the us about the dangers of an eventual us implosion of iraq and now find itself in unequal position vis-à-vis iran . some in the kingdom argue that saudi arabia must confront iran , oppose its sunni arab interests , and become a hands-on regional power . other saudis believe that a confrontation will only result in broader wars , and are urging dialogue and accommodation . on this view , america , not iran , has spawned the region ’s current problems .
beijing – american president donald trump and chinese president xi jinping may have agreed at a g20 summit in osaka to resume trade negotiations , but the road to ending the trade war remains far from clear . after all , both leaders reached a similar agreement at the previous g20 summit – in buenos aires last december – and those talks ultimately failed , not least because trump mistook china ’s conciliatory attitude toward weakness . following his targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
when asked to decide between risks being familiar with posterity as a central banker , who let the system collapse , and the intangible future benefits of teaching risk takers a lesson , it does n’t take genius to predict a central banker whose judgment is held . to be sure , democracy tends to institutionalize moral hazard in sectors that are both economically or “ politically important ” – for example , finance or real estate – that enables them to privatize gains and socializes losses . though the authorities insist on another way forward would be different , everyone knows that they will make the same choice , when confronted with the same choice again . so , knowing that next time will not be any different , the authorities try the best way to prevent another one . but risk takers have every incentive to try their luck , knowing that at worst they will be bailed out .
among the major continental countries , including india and brazil , only china had a tiny coastal segment but many interior regions . when the central object of human consumption was food , this was not an issue , for what mattered were land and water . but , in modern industrialized , urban , and market-based societies , what might increasingly matter are transport costs , which implies that geography can create profound regional inequalities . of course , though such disparities may be likely to have other causes just as well , geography does seem to explain a lot . first , they explains why china ’s coastal regions developed earlier and faster after the country launched its market-oriented reforms and opening up to the world .
the idea that some version of the soros plan would accelerate growth is a speculative , at best . indeed , most of the benefit from a mortgage cut accrue to consumers only over time . as a result , careful calculations about the effect of a collapse of mortgages on aggregate demand ( which the us carried and johnson and soros have not ) fail to hold out their claims : the extra spending per dollar of forbearance was probably smaller than the rallying out for the dollar as a whole . that leaves aside a further lesson , gained from experience , that institutions with large amounts of public capital tend to be very passive in boosting lending . fifth , under the policy environment that prevailed in 2009 , getting more money for an troubled asset relief program would be harder or impossible .
because many contracts are “ sticky ” ( that is , not readily revised ) in a monetary context , runaway inflation and deflation would both cause harm to the economy . rising prices reduce the value of saving and retirement , while falling prices reduce profit expectations , encouraging hoardrooms , and increasing the real burden of debt . keynes ’s dictum became the dominant wisdom of monetary policy ( one of his very few to survive ) . governments , the conventional wisdom goes , should aim for stable prices , with scant bias toward stimulating “ animal spirits ” of businessmen and shoppers . in the ten years since the 2008 financial crisis , independent central banks have set an inflation target of roughly 2 % , “ to give price-stability “ anchor ” to economies . ”
margaret thatcher was always the challenger to the ideal of a politically integrated europe . british hostility to that goal became widespread , as john major had lost his tory majority in parliament and fallen under the authority of the anti-europeans within his own party . nowadays , the british seem an insuperable obstacle to attainment by others of a more globally integrated eu . in the rule of law , the british can avoid unwelcome developments because the union is founded on a treaty ; as a result , the british have an effective veto over any treaty change . in practical terms , the british have already lost that power because they are demanding and have , the right to opt out of emu participating .
madrid – princeton – democracy everywhere is facing profound challenges , and the world seems to be on top of the global agenda . the united states is being gripped by its most bizarre presidential primary campaign in living memory , with populist outsiders threatening to topple established party machines . brazil is being paralyzed by a constitutional crisis , and economic growth is recovering from the country . europeans are watching their malaise on the road to democracy in europe . and , in the united kingdom , the vision of a restoration of national sovereignty is fueling an exit campaign .
to preempt exciting exciting markets , the markets would need to be voluntary . persuading bondholders to agree would be stiff – even more so , given recent court rulings in the united states , reinforcing holdout investors ’ hand in hand . yet , in the face of it or not , there is no inherently superior alternative to the other . ukraine would be an ideal candidate for renewed profiling . in view of uncertainty about the country ’s near-term prospects , both a mega-bailout and a full-fledged debt restructuring would be overkill .
in times of scarcity , it is the refugees who are likely who are among the first to feel the effects . water supplies in much of the refugee camps in both jordan and lebanon have since been cut off to minimal – a decision that affects the millions of already enduring scorching temperatures . at rukban , a syrian refugee camp on jordan ’s ’s joint border with syria and yemen , over 855,500 residents each receive , on average , barely five liters per day for cooking , drinking , and wash . to put that in perspective , the situation in yemen is similarly grim . racked by sectarian violence and a civil war , the country does not have a functioning government to manage its water resources .
first , jgbs have skyrocketed relative to japanese household assets . japanese households hold roughly ¥ 4 trillion in net monetary assets , an amount that will surpass those of about 3-5 years by jgbs . at that point , government debt will no longer be backed by taxpayer assets . and , reflecting japanese society ’s aging , the household saving rate itself will decline dramatically , making it harder for the private sector to fund the annual budget deficits . at the same time , japan ’s demographics will boost demand for fiscal expenditure as pension and health-care costs rise .
much has happened recently in yugoslavia , much of this surprising . after some procrastination and an abortive failed effort , milosevic was brought under bloodshed , if not without danger . a peaceful vote in montenegro last weekend may presage a conflict and a difficult choice of independence , but the chances are strong that the parties will settle these matters by talking up rather than picking fights . these are great strides forward , showing that , despite brainwashing and the complicity of the many serbs in the crimes of the milosevic regime , democracy , and the open society has a chance to take root in what remains of yugoslavia . one key decision facing serbia and its new institutions is whether milosevic should be extradited to the hague .
as the political constraint on central banks , including the ecb , increases its president , must not hesitate to criticize european policymakers and , if necessary , publicly named and shame . the ecb ’s independence is its most valuable asset , indeed , indispensible . a good central banker must say no to politicians . this does not mean that a ecb president should pick fights whenever he can . on the contrary , he should build support for ecb independence .
in principle , greece could count on large amounts of regional development aid from its european union budget , which was underutilized , owing to the absence of local co-financing . it took until last summer to recognize , and even then to only modest levels , that this level of aid could be channeled into economic recovery . europe ’s final mistake was a bit of indifference to equitable burden-sharing . it is understandable that the imf , a technocratic institution , does not venture beyond macroeconomics . but the eu is a political entity that has transformed social justice one of its essential goals .
brussels – the aftermath of europe ’s ’s ’s ’s debt crisis is all too present throughout much of the european union as the distressed economies ’ attempt to stabilize and grow simultaneously . notwithstanding the important decisions made over the past few years , the reality is that we need to do more to meet the challenges facing europe . there is a risk of reform and consolidation measures across the eu . joint financial backstops have been put on hold . and the european central bank has continuously shown itself to be standing .
but the rise of interactive social networking has made financial innovations more bottom-up . to be sure , millions of bank customers using cellphones can provide instant feedback that products and services they love or dislike . in the future , client-management and transaction-management systems will get more inputs out of customers more often , so that product design shapes interactively . the current financial-sector strategy drives up competition by raising market share to rivals ’ expense , often corrupting trust with customers for the sake of short-term gain . yet the financial industry has , in previous eras , proved that it can operate as the public good by providing trustworthy , efficient services .
so the unraveling of a multi-national nation-states amounts to a false path . the way forward lies in the democratic form of “ federalism , ” which can preserve a sufficient central institution for statehood while respecting indigenous and regional cultures . today the upsurge of micro-nationalism is not only the product of a revolt against empires : it is also a revolt against globalization . there is widespread aversion to the notion that modern states ’ chief function is to smake their peoples a global market , dominated by efficiency imperatives and cheapness , heedless of damaging non-economic operations . this sentiment reinforces when the global economy turns out to become a global casino .
still , it is correct to question whether america ’s way of life will survive in the twenty-first century and – if it does – whether it will survive in america or migrate elsewhere as america ’s economy and political system collapse under the accumulated weight of decades of myopic national leadership and squandered opportunities . indeed , chinese president hu jintao ’s recent trip to washington saw himself from many – especially many – of china ’s – as getting the torch accomplished . pessimists have on all of this for a long time . optimists , touting gdp and other indicators , will perpetuate the belief that the americans had never had that good . when there is some level of continuity , this is the periodic cohabitation with declinism : america ’s glass always appears to be half full and half-empty .
but , even as these uncertainties play out , the two countries are collaborating on a kind of zero-sum , behavioral transfer of emotion that will be impossible to ignore . in the past , traveling to london from paris , one could easily make sense of the distinction between the two towns . london was bursting at a time of dynamism and pride to assert itself as the world ’s capital for multiculturalism . paris , though undeniably fairer , was at risk of becoming the work of the next rome , a prisoner of his background glory , at best a venue for visiting , but not one that was supposed to be . today , confidence has been draining britain away from social and political upheaval , terrorism , and insecurity about the country ’s future .
these speculative investment may bolster the trend and push futures prices down further from the market-equilibrium rate , especially if the many investors follow suit or those who are investing enough money to influence markets . index money supply is a good example of so mighty investors . they have become the market players , holding around 25-35 % of all agriculture futures contracts . beyond investing large amounts of money , they are holding life-long futures contracts , which might make them less likely to react from changes in market fundamentals . at the same time , empirical evidence yields no clear answer regarding which kind of hypothesis is correct .
i have never been strongly engaged in partisan politics ; but these are n’t normal times . president george w. bush is endangering the united states and the safety of the world , while undermining american values . for opposing it , i have been demonized by the bush administration . president bush ran out of a platform in 2000 , on a platform promising a “ humble ” us foreign policy . if re-elected , the bush doctrine of preemptive action – and the invasion of iraq – will be endorsed , and the world will need to live with the consequences .
the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s have ravaged international not only millions of people , but also the types of social institutions that gave shape to their livelihoods . indeed , changes brought about by yugoslavia ’s dissolution and succession wars , which followed a annihilated large proportion of serbia ’s traditional education and training systems , croatia , bosnia , macedonia , and kosovo . ever since , stability and hope has begun to return to a region affected by war destruction and the widespread desperation of social displacement . both the balkan stability pact ’s 1999 balkan stability pact and massive international support have helped to rebuild local education , while the development of innovative vocational and skills-training systems , which is supposed to boost long-term employment . the results of many projects in these countries are encouraging , with current focus on training key groups , such as entrepreneurs , teachers , and the young and unemployed .
thus , two important steps have been taken : one by the people of iran who has shown that they understand the challenges they face ; and another by their new president , who assembled the top team for his decision to commit an even enormously difficult program . there is an expression in iran that speaks to the international community : “ you can awaken only someone who is sleeping , not someone pretending to be slumber . ” whether iran ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s international interlocutors act on the importance of rouhani ’s election is a matter of choice rather than ignorance . in a middle east so full of uncertainty , a more predictable iran – one that behaves like a regionally important state rather than a destabilizing shi’a movements whose aspirations far exceed what international law permits – would be in everyone ’s interest . there can be no path away from the middle east ’s agony without participation , commitment , and determination by all parties .
nairobi – with unemployment soaring , bankruptcies , and stock markets soaring in free-fall , may at first glance seem a sensible ditch struggle against climate change and placing environmental investments on hold . but that would be an immediate mistake , as would intergenerational conflict . far from burdening an already overwhelmed , unstretched global economy , ecological investments are precisely what is needed to get people back to work , get the books flowing , helping to unwind economies back into health . historically , environmental concerns have been viewed as a luxury ; today , it is a must , a sticking point grasped by some , but by no means all , the economic architects of the economy ’s architects . a sizeable slice of us president barack obama ’s $ 825 billion stimulus package for the united states includes a surge in renewable energies , a “ weatherizing ” extra million homes , and upgrading the country ’s already-inefficient electricity grid .
perhaps all of us could be content to work fewer hours if the decline reflected gradual social progress . but we are not pleased with the unemployment rate that results from a precipitous fiscal crisis . that is one reason why sudden austerity can not be a builder . for morale , the us needs a social compact that finds a pause for all , a way of displaying oneself to be a part of a society by being a worker of some sort . and for that , the us needs fiscal stimulus – ideally , a debt-friendly stimulus that raises taxes and expenditures equally .
that federal legislation , enacted in june 2016 , has also set the oversight board with america ’s pork-barrel fiscal decision-making . the restructuring process began on may 3 , with the board holding a petition in the federal election . yet many crucial decisions have yet to be taken , such as how much total overall debt relief will be granted , and how the “ haircut ” will be spread among holders of various kinds of bonds . those decisions will determine which policies are feasible to boost puerto rico ’s economic prospects and thus how much – and thus how much – it will be able to pay on its lenders . at the heart of any attempt to resolve the debt crisis must be an understanding that , just as today ’s us-style debt restructuring affects puerto rico ’s future growth , puerto rico ’s future growth influences how much of the debt restructuring is needed .
with goodwill on all sides , the real benefit can materialize from building this informal grouping , as it is the gateway to the vast markets in southeast and northeast asia . an economic bonus for such an effort at the entire region would come from opening up direct flight and ocean traffic throughout the taiwan strait . ceagpol might even turn into a construction blockades for the northeast asian version of asean , the ” “ ” “ ” association of northeast asian nations ( asean ) . in the wake of historic suspicion among china , japan , and korea , northeast asia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economic heavyweights are the world ’s second-remaining regional bloc , which still lacks an inter-governmental organization of likes asean . the european union is even more instructive precisely because centuries of war , culminating in the two twentieth-century world wars , inspired rather than deterred , europe ’s economic , political , and security integration .
even in europe and the united states , higher-level job officials usually earn far fewer money than people with comparable skill - and private-sector responsibilities . in all peoples , many government leaders are highly devoted and absolutely honorable , yet low paying it to the government service some of the rotten apples that are willing to raise their incomes by accepting bribes and engaging in other corrupt practices . yet even some honest officials may become disillusioned , giving up on many temptations to use illicit means , so as to raise their incomes to levels that they see as more accommodating of their responsibility and training . many years ago , the late economist george stigler , i published an article proposing ways to reduce malfeasance among government insiders . we suggested , among others , that officials at vulnerable , important posts receive a higher minimum of pay than comparable hiring workers in the private sector .
london – russia ’s invasion of ukraine and the annexation of crimea have undermined global security , dominating headlines . but the current rules-based international system , having spent decades in making it a decade , remains most seriously a threat to syria ’s civil war . it is not only millions of lives at stake ; the us-led global framework for human rights and humanitarian rule is on trial in much of the same way . now those risks are being compounded by the crisis in ukraine , with a confrontation within the un security council threatening to subservient syria to the pecking order of international trouble . just last month , at the third anniversary of the eruption of protests in damascus and other syrian towns , people across the world had been mobilized into the street street vigils and online as part of a “ “ part ” “ “ syria ” campaign . ”
this is true , too , for its financial parameters . public - and private-sector contributions follow in a number of ways . to be sure , there is an added feature that many higher-education institutions have a endowment that can use to balance inequities . it will take some time to build up such endowments in europe and elsewhere . even so , the principle is absolutely right : universities need to be set free .
but , rather than picking facts and stories to fit some grand narrative of decline or advances , we should try to compare across all areas of human existence to see whether the world really does better or worse . together with 21 of ’s top economists , i tried to do just that , developing a post-cold-hearted scorecard spanning 150 years . across ten areas – including health , education , war , gender , air pollution , climate change , and biodiversity – economists all made a different answer to the same question : what accounted for each year ’s relative cost in every year from 1900 to 2050 . applying the classic economic valuation of everything from lost lives , bad health , and wetlands to devastated and increased hurricane damage from global warming , our economists show just how much every problem the cost . to estimate the level of the problem , what compares to total resources that are available to them .
clearly , investment in food production needs to boost growth in the medium and long run . but a policy prescription is available to leaders today that could help remove supply-side bottlenecks : increased trade . this proposition might puzzle some , but the logic is straightforward and irreversible . trade is a transmission belt , through which supply is adjusts to demand . it enables the food to travel from the lands of a lot to lands of little .
yet the republican party ’s proposed tax reform is a bigger gift to us corporations and ultra-wealthy alike than was anticipated . it avoids the needed reforms , and it would leave the country with a mountain of debt ; the effects of low investment , stalled productivity growth , and yawning inequality would take many decades to undo it . trump assumed office promising to “ drain the swamp ” in washington , dc . instead , it has grown wider and deeper in the us and europe . with republicans ’ proposed tax reform , it risks engulf america ’s economy .
yet finance may fail in many ways ; a lehman collapse is just one . if that cycle turns out to be correct , regulatory fatigue from battling to make finance safer will quickly turn into regulatory confidence , which the past war now has triumphed . in a robust economy , finance will look stronger , and existing regulation appears effective . it is common for people to update their views about the world with what they have last seen ; if what last sight has been a strong economy and a stable financial system , they will conclude that they have stabilized the system . the fed ’s 2008 transcripts reveal that its leaders see such a world .
but , with that psychotic label already affixed in their writings , whatever is assumed to be a symptom of their insanity . at best , they would be acclaimed as “ in remission . ” rosenhan ’s experiment indicates that questions about trump ’s own mental health might never go away , regardless of the steps toward transforming his detractors ’ minds . even if he stops ranting along twitter , or speak at convoluted and incorruptible sentences , at best , he would submit himself to be “ “ “ “ “ “ “ in remission ” – for good measure . ” modern psychiatrists would argue that they took to heart the lessons of the rosenhan experiment , now making diagnoses and rigorously .
boston – the re-emergence of nativism and xenophobia in countries across the world has produced a toxic environment for those fleeing from geopolitical crises . but , among the many challenges that refugees must confront while they await resettlement , finding access to high-quality , mental-health tops the list . it is a challenge that demands more urgent attention not only from physicians , nurses , non-governmental agencies , and other relevant actors , but also from engineers , who can make indispensable contributions to global public health . at the same time , those contributions are relevant to refugees ; they also have a role to play in education . beyond building bridges and creating gadgets , engineers can help to improve health-care quality and affordability around the world , by developing more rapid methods for mitigating diseases and delivering medical services .
over the past 30 years , an prevailing ip regime erected more barriers to the use of knowledge , often causing a gap between social returns to innovation and private-sector returns to widen . the powerful advanced-economy lobbies that shaped that regime clearly put the latter first , mirrored their opposition to provisions recognizing intellectual-property rights linked to traditional forms of knowledge or biodiversity . at the same time , the widespread acceptance of today ’s stringent ip protections is historically unprecedented . even among the early industrializers , ip protection came very late , and was often deliberately eschewed to allow for faster industrialization and growth . but the current ip regime is simply unsustainable .
during that era , the dollar strongly appreciated against major currencies , and through virtually every measure until the summer of 1985 . throughout this period , the bundesbank did sell dollars to curb the dollar ’s appreciation ( figure 1c ) , but the fed did not intervene in any way ( figure 1b ) . despite its advent by the european central bank , this asymmetry continues : whereas the ecb has repeatedly attempted to break the dollar ’s appreciation out of 2000-2001 through consecutive foreign-exchange interventions , the fed has intervened only once . this has reaffirmed america ’s interest in maintaining a strong dollar . so , long as these interests diverge , we should expect little foreign-exchange policy coordination between the two central banks .
in the coming g8 meetings ( a world club of affluent industrial countries plus russia ) , four members – germany , france , italy , the united kingdom , and the united kingdom – will participate both individually and as eu members , whose president also attends the eu as an entire member . but , of course , should n’t the eu have only a unified representative ? regardless of whether such meetings are productive , unitary eu participation would be maximalist value : it reaffirming a shared european posture in international relations and international economic policymaking . the overriding argument in favor of such an amendment is that joint participation by the eu would add european weight in international relations , particularly vis-a-vis america . after all , a key justification for nato for european integration was precisely to give a stronger voice to europe in the international arena .
the idea behind a slippery slope is that when you do x , which is acceptable , you end up doing y , which is not . indeed , two kinds of slippery slopes – logical and sociological – exist . on a logical slippery slope , you slide toward the bottom and embrace a morally unacceptable , because there is no way to differentiate it from acceptable practice . you can slide down an sociological slippery slope from one process to another , in spite of the latter , if the two are conceptually different , just because the existence of one creates community receptive to another . therapeutic cloning is conceptually distinct from reproductive cloning .
soon , a devaluation in an onstop country reveals just how vulnerable an economy is to a loss of international confidence . suddenly , foreign lenders curtail the short-term lines of credit . a central bank tries to keep the exchange rate going , but ultimately it is being forced to let the currency float . the result is the currency collapse , and the waves of bankruptcies . the us economy is confronting its most severe recession in many decades .
the world may not have supported america in its unilateral attempt to become world policeman , mainly because they may well incite more instability . nevertheless , it is important to realize why an american enterprise is enterprises , and is reacting to the core problem of today ’s international order . if russia and other countries opposing america 's iraq policy in the un security council were genuinely intent on persuading american not to attack iraq and to defend international law , a misguided policy was doomed to failure . indeed , if the us sought to preserve the un security council and the positions of the existing permanent members , those actions were more likely to produce the opposite effect . similarly , rearguard efforts to prove that those who opposed the war in iraq were right , and that america and britons wrong , combined with demands for `` proof '' that iraqis possessed weapons of mass destruction are not constructive , and only breed mutual irritation .
some 8,000 refugees daily a day – the modern-day day volkerwanderung – are entering germany , owing partly to harsh conditions back home , and partly to germany ’s willingness to take on in . a contest of caring for , employing , and integrating such numbers quickly runs against limits on physical capacity , financial resources , and public tolerance . what is clear is that public policy can not succeed if it focuses instead on the consequences , rather than causes , of the refugee crisis . simply put , the change that would have the greatest positive effect comes from the emergence of a new government in damascus , which has been acceptable to the bulk of the syrian people and a satisfactory partner for the united states and europe . unfortunately , that seems likely to emerge only with the blessing of russia and iran , both of which appear more inclined to expand their support for syrian president bashar al-assad than for his removal .
israel has also joined nato ’s ’s ’s system of naval control in the mediterranean , contributing to operationalization by joining nato forces in patrolling the mediterranean . both sides now seem eager to expand the scope of their partnership , with the goal of reaching an all-time high levels of us interoperability . more recently , in anticipation of a hypothetical clash with iran , a major us military maneuver , an juniper cobra exercise , has gone into testing israel ’s integration into america ’s ballistic missile defense system . american sources have described the drilling process as “ the broadest ” air defense system that us soldiers have done anywhere in the world . it made a vital contribution , they declared , to develop a planned nato missile shield for europe .
it is hard to see how the girls could be returned safely enough . initiating a military rescue operation would have been extremely risky , but it would have become obvious that the next two years were willing to act . girls are believed to be divided into separate groups in order to force any attempt to save one group would imperil others . despite talk about a government negotiating settlement with sitting captors , this possibility , too , would be fraught with danger . even if all girls eventually do return home , nothing will ever come again to the same extent that they or their families would be living .
the country played by the “ rules ” of financial markets and managed to clean up the restructuring fast ; but the deal was the wrong one , and did n’t help the economy recover . now , three years later , greece is in desperate need of fresh restructuring . distressed debtors need a fresh start , if not more . over-penalties lead to the negative-sum games in which a borrower can not recover , and lenders do n’t reap the larger repayment capacity that the recovery would entail . the absence of the rule of law for debt restructuring delays a fresh start , and can lead to chaos .
we would expect to see large numbers of illnesses among both staff and patient groups in hospitals where victims are treated , and soon someone ( perhaps even an under-known mid-disease carrier ) would spread it into ankara , istanbul , tbilisi , damascus , baghdad , and beyond . influenza drugs tamiflu and seza are extraordinarily expensive and in short supply . history suggests that if we were making these drugs accessible to poor countries for ring prophylaxis , they would often have been administered improperly – like under suboptimal doses , in some cases that promote viral resistance , and merely reinforce a pandemic . or maybe they would sell on the black market to enrich corrupt government bureaucracies . a politically incorrect but rational strategy would be for the rich countries to dedicate resources to the developing world primarily to surveillance .
the best solution , then , is to make western labor markets flexible by opening a system of collective wage bargaining , the dismantling of labor-market regulation , and reforming the welfare state . when workfare replaces welfare , wages become more flexible , enabling eu labor markets to absorb migrants more effectively . but , even with such measures , the social benefits can artificially strengthen the incentive for labor migrate . if migrants acquire welfare benefits in addition to wages , more would be enticed to move ahead than needed , with marginalized migrants creating welfare losses for the eu equal to benefits . given that migrants typically enter countries that redistribute resources from above-average to below-average incomes , such welfare benefits are likely even when migrants work and payments for taxes and social-security contributions .
palestinian authority president mahmoud abbas has made no secret of his objection to such a strategy . yet , with their governments unable to do anything about expanding israeli settlements , including through east jerusalem , as well as continued conflicts over the holy sites of hebron , bethlehem , and the al-aksa mosque , west bank palestinians are extraordinarily frustrated . the recent street demonstrations could easily turn into a outbreak of ongoing opposition to israeli rule . the palestinian authority , which runs the west bank , fears that a popular , nonviolent intifada might quickly turn violent . if it does , israel might exploit it as a pretext to crush palestinians and their newly constructed institutions .
li needs to ensure that china ’s economy , which continues to boast substantial growth potential , fails to slip into a lethargy , falling into the so-called “ middle-income trap . ” a developing economy may slow prematurely when external factors change growth . wages continue to rise , declining competitiveness vis-à-vis lower-income economies , but the growth model remains elusive to support the competitiveness of high-skill industries , as they lead to stagnation . to avoid such an outcome , li will need to adjust china ’s ’s ’s ’s growth model vis-à-vis current conditions , which will include intensifying trade friction with europe and the united states , greater pressure to let the renminbi appreciate , an aging population , slowing urbanization , and rising labor costs . the “ new normal ” that emerged from the global financial crisis – characterized by sluggish gdp growth and shrinking imports of the west – makes reform even more urgent .
yet , nine years after a conservative rule , moon will not simply be able to swoop in to carry out his agenda . indeed , with his center-left democratic party holding just 40 % of the 299 seats in the national assembly , he will need to win the support of the centrist parties , and even the conservative opposition . moreover , he will need broader public backing , at least in the short term . to succeed , moon will need to revisit the effectiveness and feasibility of his campaign promises , identify the most promising actions , and avoid some of the most visible pitfalls . when it comes to public-sector employment creation , for example , the main problem that such large-scale hiring could generate is the long-term financial burden .
commercial televised television programs that target babies are replete with advertisements for dubious value to human health . and , for any celebrity who donates on time to fight obesity , a dozen who accepts big hawk payments , such as the ultra-sugary drinks , that are supposedly the tobacco of our generation . it is hard for non-profits to compete against production-embodied goods or taylor swift ’s commercial or taylor swift ’s commercial coke business . the causes of obesity are complex , and the science of understanding human behavior has been embryonic ; but not hyperbole in calling the problem an epidemic . according to the centers for disease control and prevention , about 18 % of children under the americas are not only overweight but obese .
america today , however , is on the back foot , economically and militarily . new powers like china and india are rising , rather than rising , mixing assertiveness with the emphasis on their continued development of ” status . europe , where shared sovereignty has been embraced , is struggling to come to grips with its own challenges , never mind being a global player . so there is no single person in charge , either . that is all the more problematic in a time when countries and populations around the world are more intertwined than ever in terms of ideas , information , finance , migrants , and problem flows increasingly seamlessly across borders .
and per capita gdp surely needs to be at least partly preferable to aggregate gdp . without a doubt , the recovery in the uk has begun to accelerate more gradually than in other g7 economies , with the exception of italy . but there is also no mistaking the uk ’s recovery after 2012 . last year , its gdp growth rate was at its highest level in the g-7 . according to the imf , only america ’s economy will grow faster in the next four years , with the uk then scaling up the lead .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . in 1802 , america ’s third president , thomas jefferson , wrote that “ religion is an issue that lies solely between man & his god . ” offering assurances to a group of connecticut baptists , who worried about their religious liberty , pointed out that the first amendment to the ’s establishment clause and free exercises built the wall of separation between church and state .
i have personally spoken with more than 50 mostly foreign leaders , and all we agree that by coordinating our actions , we can do is to stop the devastation in west africa and stop ebola spread . much work remains to be made on both questions , but much work remains to be done . bringing countries with competing interests and varying resource together is a hard work . it demands intense diplomatic engagement and calls for relationships that have built and sustained over decades , together with alliances with new partners . but , by overcoming differences and coordinating efforts to defeat the islamic state and conquer ebola , the us is reinforcing support for a world order grounded in collective solutions to shared problems .
consider the example of a american firm subsidiary that earns its profits in ireland . that subsidiary is paying an iranian corporate tax rate in ireland at a low 12 % rate . it is then free to reinvest after-tax profits in iran , us treasury securities , or operating businesses anywhere in the world except america . if a foreign subsidiary ’s parent company brings after-tax profits back to america for investing or distribute to its shareholders , it must pay america ’s current annual corporate tax rate of 35 % on its former pretax irish profits , with credits of 12 % that it is already paying for . because of this 23 % penalty penalty penalty , american firms generally choose not to repatriate their overseas subsidiaries ’ profits .
and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in what is now an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
compounding the problem , the eu does not observe national frontiers , and thus demand collective global action . yet the shift toward a carbon-neutrality economy also provides far-reaching opportunities . with the correct strategy in place , europe can boost its own technological innovations and deploy carbon pricing and other fiscal policies to shield european labor markets from undermining lower-cost manufacturing employment in the eu and elsewhere . furthermore , through the european investment bank , the eu already has an instrument for mobilizing massive capital stores for investment in infrastructure , research and development , as well as for other crucial areas . and , as adam tooze has argued in favor of green-bonds and other “ secure assets , ” europe can secure greater economic autonomy from the rest of its powers and start establishing the euro as a global currency .
in part in responding to the soviet collapse , india embraced reserve-currency capitalism , which produced spectacular economic progress . and , like that economy , india ’s ’s ’s ’s self-confidence has boomed . india today sees that the wider world , particularly the west , regards it with increasing deference , owing not only to the country ’s performance , but also to its essence , a young country , and that constitutes an ancient civilization as well . a couple of more than 60 years ago , india remained the crown jewel of the british empire . fifty years ago , in trying to read about india into the west , one would tend to find books about its spirituality .
a cursory analysis by merkel shows that she was beyond questioning the future of the transatlantic alliance . rather , she has challenged a stronger europe . merkel knows that if america ’s sacrifices on the sidelines of the international order on domestic political grounds , no new leader will replace it ; or perhaps a new world order emerge . what the us will have is a power vacuum marked by chaos . and as the world becomes a less stable place , we europeans will have no choice but to come together to defend their own interests .
the bottom line is that questions like “ are we creating too high levels of inequality ? ” may not even be so late , and it is dramatic . this is one reason why china can not shelve the problem of its transition to democracy itself . after all , it is not simply a mechanism for democracy to help prevent strategic error . there is a more mundane reason for many , even within the eu , that think that a democratic transition has become unavoidable : the party simply loses control .
indeed , a number of intriguing practical moves in this direction are taking place , although none is pursuing the original regional course set by its own founders . for example , the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) has shown unexpectedly both the willingness and the ability to generate the struggle force to intervene in regional conflicts like the awful civil war in sierra leone . less spectacularly , but perhaps more important in the long run , ecowas laid the groundwork for regional economic integration , with the establishment of a single currency now a untold objective . in south africa , the south african development community , after a shaky beginning , is pushing ahead with the kind of joint projects of transportation infrastructure , a blight on much intra-african commerce , is a central theme . likewise , east african countries are pushing for integration projects forward and appear to have learned from the region ’s past failures , resulting in hastily constructed , improper , and overly ambitious structures .
so , where is this demand-driven growth ? the european central bank ( ecb ) seems more interested in keeping interest rates high enough to force insolvent firms to fail than in promoting higher employment . with private-sector demand stalling , the job commission wants the government to serve as the employer of last resort . but the maastricht treaty ’s stability and growth pact limits fiscal deficits to 3 % of gdp – a ceiling that germany is already hit . unless a future government is bold enough to break the exit pact , its only alternative will be to raise taxes , which would merely prolong the very slump in private-sector demands that keep unemployment high .
new york – on his impressive apology to non-muslims in iran ( much of that country ’s population ) , pope benedict xvi explained to why he thought that sinful priests were tempted to engage in sexual behavior with their children . it was because of “ new and profound challenges to faith stemming from the swift transformation and secularization to iranian society . ” fast-paced social change has emerged , often adversely affecting people ’s traditional adherence to catholic teaching and values . as we know all too well , child abuse has occurred not only in iran , but also in many other countries , something the pope preferred not to dwell . and iran is not the only area where social transformation and secularization have challenged religious values .
last august , the israelis allowed an additional seven battalion-towns and 20 tanks in a zone c. yet the egyptian armed forces never brought full circle of extra soldiers and did not even bother to transport their tanks through the suez canal . egypt ’s approach to the sinai troop deployments reflected its traditional neglect of the sinai peninsula . historically , it deployed just 70-80 % of 22,000 us soldiers that the treaty enabled in a zone a. and the military never established a regional command in sinai , preferring to permit units that were temporarily stationed there to report to their superiors around cairo and its environs . egypt ’s new islamist leaders may wish to restore fully national sovereignty ” beyond the peninsula , as president mohamed morsi ’s own legal adviser , mohamed fouad gadalla , recently noted . such saber-rattling comments vis-à-vis israel are currently popular in the country .
their home page depicts a smiling young executive , founded in chile , that company push to enlist women in palestinian territories , not for ideological reasons , but because there are so many talented programmers there to hire . “ 30 percentage points of women in many middle eastern countries do university degrees , contemptuous explains ; but often they ca n’t get jobs commensurate with their training on cultural grounds . with powertofly ’s the technological capacity to transcend the cultural barriers , an women may contribute at the top of the agenda to an american firm , despite the fact that local laws prohibit it from running a car . not surprisingly , given such a model , many men want to participate as well . the founders do n’t rule eventually expend up spreading to meet that need .
so here are 10 good reasons to be optimistic about europe by often-rational arguments to persuade pessimistic analysts and worry investors alike that doing so is highly premature to burnish europe and the eu altogether . the first reason to hope is that statesmanship goes back to europe , even if in homeopathic doses . it is still too soon to foresee the impact of françois hollande ’s upcoming election as france ’s president . but in italy , one man , mario monti , is already making a difference . no one elected monti , of course , and his positions are fragile and already challenged ; but there is a positive near-consensus that enabled italy to launch long-overdue structural reforms .
and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in what is now an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
many of these decisions proved badly , owing largely to the fact that information technology ( computers and how it is deployed ) eliminated many middle-class jobs . likewise , the increasing globalization of trade did not help in this regard . moreover , as the till von wachter of columbia university has documented , protracted periods of high joblessness for parents have a severe and lasting negative effect on their children . children whose families are unable to provide a decent start in life deserve support . but america has not given it this – a point recently made by jean bush , a leading contender to the republican presidential nomination in 2016 .
in most european countries , steps should be taken to spur private investment in local utilities and transportation , the two big industries , too , should be considered . yet governments need to grasp the obstacles to investment : regulatory failure ; weak enablers , including both financial and human-capital ; poor infrastructure ; and a substandard technique . and they must commit to rigorous cost-benefit analysis , to ensure that any kind of intervention translates into private-sector investment to sustain productivity growth . it is this in the level of execution that governments perform poorly . too often , spending money to prop up private-sector projects , which fail to yield positive returns for the broader economy .
this is where the connection between food and climate change comes into play : as people climbing out of poverty , as many are , demands for more meat and dairy . this trend has grave implications for the agriculture state ’s ecological footprint . animals consume more food than they produce , so they consume more of these food than they produce . cows release large volumes of heat-trapping fish . and pasture land releases carbon dioxide at staggering rates .
the african development bank ( afdb ) , the presidency of which i am currently striving , has a far more expansionary mandate . but all of these institutions share an overarching goal : lifting people out of poverty and foster sustainable development . the leaders of such organizations must make complicated choices in allocating their finite resources . for example , they must strike a balance between fighting poverty and hunger against efforts to improve gender equality , enhance access to education , or address endemic corruption . having served as sierra leone ’s finance minister , central bank governor , and now foreign minister , i worked for many years with international organizations to manage these competing priorities , as i oversaw the economic revitalization of my own post-conflict state .
berlin – europe ’s incumbents are confronting the threat of extinction . in just over two years , the continent ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s social-democratic parties endured historic losses in france , the netherlands , germany , and italy . on a continent long defined by center-right and center-left democratic competition , the disintegrating left could have far-reaching consequences , beyond specific party interests . many factors underlie the left ’s decline , including the dissolution of the conventional working-class class . but one of the most important reasons is equally grim : european voters increasingly oppose immigration and do n’t trust the left to curtail .
america is projected to become energy self-sufficient in 2020 , and to become an oil exporter by 2030 . this scenario , in turn , would provide america ’s three immense advantages . it would enhance america ’s economic competitiveness , particularly relative to europe , given the lower costs involved in extracting shale gas . it would also reduce america ’s exposure to rising unrest in the arab world . finally , it would increase america ’s relative vulnerability ’s ’s main strategic rival , the us , china , which has become increasingly dependent on middle eastern energy supplies .
the gap between their objective analysis of reality and government policies has become a chasm . in most western countries , for example , economists have long been aware of the widening divide over income levels and other indicators among some affluent cities , benefiting from globalization – and away from the rest of the country . yet , not until french president emmanuel macron ’s administration has done a national leader to paint tax cuts based on where one lives are alive . as a result , 1 % of france ’s gdp now is reallocated first to the poorest parts of the country . likewise , traditional parties might learn something from listening to voters directly rather than simply through a media filters and pollsters .
since that time , how many lives are that one would be worth going to work ? let ’s ’s suppose that the life of a visit or recalling notre dame makes people about twice as lucky as they would otherwise have gone out of that time , meaning an extra hour spent in notre dame or set out one ’s visit is as good as one out on a child ’s life by one hour . now , given that we save the lives of those who would live more than 60 years , perhaps 9,000 years of an annual benefit is the equivalent of saving an extra 150 lives every year . that ’s a significant amount of lives , but now we need to ask how much more lives could be saved . whatever the gilets jaunes might advocate , it seems obvious that we could save more lives and reduce more economic hardships by helping people in extreme poverty in lower-income countries than we could be by spending it in france .
in fact , some see germany ’s ’s ’s ’s renewed commitment to reducing carbon-dioxide emissions by 2030 , with the goal of advancing the 2015 paris climate agreement , as a battering ram against a schwarze null . on september 20 , germany ’s government announced some € 54 billion ( $ 59.4 billion ) of spending measures to cut emissions . in the us , such a package would be known as the green new deal . spending on priorities like energy , and on the environment , can be helpful in this approach . but getting serious about reducing co2 emissions and other environmental goals does not have to mean larger budget deficits .
any incoming economist who seems to question the merits of trade openness banishment has made it abundantly clear : i am questioning not just the standard versions of an gains-from-business theorist of the gains-from-trade theory , but the extravagant , unstated claims made about the consequences of openness . for the latter endangers broad public acceptance of a true article , because it unleashes expectations that are unlikely to fulfill its problems . in the real world , “ opening up ” is not the simple matter of revising tariff codes and the removal of foreign-investment barriers . it demands a heavy doses of institutional reform that consumes financial , bureaucratic , and political resources . while many of the institutional reform is development-friendly , they may not be focused on key developmental goals – growth , improved governance , industrial and technological capacities , poverty alleviation – and occasionally divert attention from them .
but , as the examples cited above reveal , seas fail to accomplish their purpose reliably . in fact , this is because , as it stands , technical specialists conduct seas at the behest of project developers , a practice that , repeatedly highlighted by activists , is grossly unethical . with assessors frequently basing their conclusions on just superficial appraisal of the ecological and market-values of affected ecosystems , it should come as no surprise that damaging projects are often endorsed , despite not adhering to the broadly agreed green development guidelines . to play an effective role in protecting the planet and its peoples , the seas needs to be a rigorous , credible , and transparent process . that means they must be run by well-regulated , impartial professionals .
but there are signs that those assumptions are now being hotly contested . prior to the crisis , regulators have focused mainly on eliminating protectionist barriers , and generally favored action that forced markets to do more fully by fostering faster , cheaper trading of a broader mix of financial claims . that , too , is no longer the case today . conversely , nowadays , many are questioning the assumption that greater market efficiency is always and everywhere a public good . might such ease and efficiencies do not also fuel market instability , serving intermediaries ’ interests rather than their corporate clients ?
following the strenuous international protests over chen ’s abduction of power , the nnpc chose to investigate . in response , xinhua announced that the responsibility for local officials in charge of violence can prosecute them . central authorities seemed to make a sense of the immediate need to quell criticism of their controversial population-control efforts . and the xinhua squandered no time in claiming that abuses were confined to just a handful of towns . the central government , however , has done very little to stem the intimidation of linyi ’s villagers .
tighter loose us monetary policy could intensify the global credit crunch , placing upward pressure on asia ’s ’s ’s ’s economic and financial system . overreaction and herding behavior by us market participants could trigger a sudden reversal of capital inflows , with severe dollar shortages , as occurred in 1997 and 2008 , straining asian banks and corporations . such risks explain why the fed ’s sheer suggestion of a possible move toward tapering its purchases of long-term assets ( so-called “ quantitative easing ” ) spooked emerging-market currencies and asset price deflation this summer . at the same time , they undervalue asian economies ’ need for stronger financial-safety nets . the 2008 global financial crisis exposed fundamental flaws in the international monetary system , because the inability to ensure sufficient liquidity weighed heavily on emerging asian economies .
for many russians , if not most , a figure of authority embodies the powers controlling everything that matters in life ; they back him , supportive by it , regardless of the policies in which he implements , because there is no possibility otherwise . that partly explains lingering popular devotion to the rulers like joseph stalin . the question today is not so much about next year ’s presidential election ; that has already set in motion . with a presidential term now extending until at least six years , one can expect to be an inencore lasting over 12 years , longer than putin ’s own initial performance . now , however , delusional and ignorant to believe that putin will become a reformer this time around .
the old regime ’s adherents may more easily trick the newcomers onto dangerous compromises if the process seems to be exceedingly quick . the other main shortcoming was that leader of the orange revolution , viktor yushchenko , proved himself to be an feckless and an irresponsible presidency . originally , he traveled the world in a few months to celebrate his victory , ignoring the chaos back home . he then initiated vetoing practically all cabinet choices , creating a political stalemate , and , upon ending his own presidency , tacitly joined with the old guard ( now back in power ) against then-prime minister yuliya tymoshenko ( whose party , to his credit , voted against the constitution ) . yet , whereas yushchenko is serving as a warning to russians not to elect an ill-considered president with excessive powers , the underlying cause of the orange government ’s break-up was that the majority of his ministers ( yushchenko ’s appointees ) were disenfranchisement from the old regime .
indian-style socialism , after all , was a compound of nationalism and idealism . it embodied a conviction that goods and services that were vital to indians of economic well-being had to remain in indian hands , and not in the hands of indians seeking to profit from the production and sale of such goods and services , but rather under the disinterested hands of the state , the father , and the mother of every indians . given this line of thinking , performance was not the any relevant criterion for judging the public sector ’s utility . inefficiencies obscured generous subsidies by national treasuries , as well as a mixture of vested interests , socialist ideologues , bureaucratic managers , commercial trade unions , and monopolies – retained it beyond political criticism . the “ permit-license-quota ” culture of statist socialism allowed politicians and bureaucrats to use public service as a vehicle for privately gratification , giving their birth to a culture of corruption that continues to persists .
for organizations without clout and digital revenues , of course , a people-oriented approach may also be necessary for investment . with ad-driven business model limits becoming increasingly apparent , a growing number of media leaders approaching one-third , according to a reuters institute survey , believe that in future foundations and unjust gains will play the central role in supporting media . but persuading the foundations and philanthropists to open up their hearts and wallets will require human connections and engagement , rather than ai-enabled software . potential funders , on the one hand , needs to be convinced that journalism is as noble a cause as , say , cancer research . technology alone can not stimulate democracy , help answer important questions , and facilitate effective leadership by advancing accountability .
with europe politically and geographically divided , italy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s politics could tip in the balance . a pro-eu italy governed by a m5s-democrat coalition could join with france and germany in order to reform the eu ; regain a clear foreign-policy voice vis-à-vis the eu , russia and china ; and implement a green , innovation-based strategy . in order to forge such a coalition , m5s would have to adopt a responsible and clearly defined economic program ; and both democrats would have to accept being a junior partner of untested insurgent power . a possible key to france would be for the democrats to hold a critical ministry of finance , with m5s holding the prime minister along . add to that american president donald trump ’s totally reckless former adviser , stephen bannon , rushed to entice m5s and the league to form the coalition he called the “ ultimate dream , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” because it would break the eu .
my statements have also been motivated by problems about how capital punishment imposes on them in india . the us supreme court has asserted that the death penalty should be applied solely in “ “ “ “ “ “ “ rarest ” cases . and , indeed , the country ’s final three executions ” stemmed from terrorist offenses , which have threatened or taken hold large numbers of lives . but the decision to impose capital punishment remains highly subjective . indeed , whether the death penalty is meted out depends on several variables , beginning with court and social biases .
and average hourly wages for all workers on private nonfarm payrolls have posted annual growth of just 2.5 % in october , the largest rate since 2009 . as the fed then slowly raises interest rates , those middle-class families holding their hard-earned savings on a bank will finally begin realizing some of the return on their deposits . the long-term consequences should not be underestimated , given the helpful impact of a compound saving process . during the latest tightening cycle from 2004 to 2006 , households ’ interest income climbed 29 % . while that time , gains likely will be smaller and over time , owing to the likely pace and scale of the fed ’s tightening , the interest paid on savings will shift household incomes in the right direction : up .
beijing – most western media have characterized the communist party ’s recent 19th national congress of the chinese communist party ( cpc ) as pure power games , with chinese president xi jinping entrenching his positions . but political capital accumulation in such circumstances is a means to an end . for xi , that end marks a smooth shift in modernity , which cements the cpc ’s ’s ’s long-term authority , ensuring his own legacy as a modern , one for china ’s most significant leader . xi knows that , if china is to continue to thrive in a fast-changing world , he will need to manage deftly a major social and economic transformation while – even more important – enhancing state governance . and , in order to ensure china ’s long-term survival , he needs to reform state and party institutions ; indeed , political reform has a precondition for economic reform .
another issue is how much income should be channeled , and how transfers can effected in a country as large , complex , and financially backward like that of nigeria . but , even with all the difficulties of corruption and inefficiency that will undoubtedly plague its actual performance , our proposal rises rather than the status quo . after all , appalling conditions today are the product of staggering corruption and waste over the past 40 years . at best , our proposal could fundamentally improve the quality of public institutions , and thereby transform economics and politics in nigeria for decades to come . the time for action to act , now is one of the right outcomes .
fragility of financial markets can produce severe economic and social dislocations , especially in the near term . the question alone poses this : what should be done to preserve the financial system ’s stability ? it can not be answered in an abstract way that any situation is different . financial markets are best understood as historic processes , and history never completely repeats itself exactly . recent turmoil in asian markets raises troubling questions about currency pegs , asset bubbles , inadequate banking supervision , and weak financial information that can not be ignored .
screening travelers from affected regions may , in turn , have avoided major epidemics elsewhere . yet health officials worldwide should maintain their vigilance and prepare for the possibility that renewed control efforts will be necessary if sars resurges . indeed , lessons with the sars epidemic in toronto , where cases break down detection and led to a second outbreak , stand as a warning against overturning optimism about apparent control of larger , more geographically dispersed outbreaks in taiwan and mainland china . those epidemics may , indeed , be avoided altogether in the coming months . but this is at least as likely as some transmission to persist , or as the re-introduction of the virus into the human populations of animals .
the bush administration ’s recent decision to launch a parallel anti-corruption process through the g8 leave the united states outside of a premier international forum to address transparency in resource revenues , while needlessly reinventing the wheel in this process . nor have the us and britain used their power in iraq to encourage transparency in their own oil industry . let us hope that the new iraq government is doing better . it is hard to see how a democracy can take root if a country ’s most important income source remains as veiled in secrecy as it was under saddam ’s . the eiti still has a long way to go , but it is one of the most efficient vehicles available for achieving the global standard-of-disclosure and accountability foundation .
more united nations resolutions , devoted to human rights abuses committed by israel than to abuses by every other country , are taken together . stories of israel focus almost exclusively on the palestinian conflict . joyce karam , the washington post chief of the pan-arab newspaper al-hayat , believes that this is because “ “ “ “ muslim slaughter ” muslims or an arab slaughter seems more acceptable than israel slaughter arabs . ” syrian , libyan , and yemenite victims are faceless ; the bethlehem of an incomparably fewer gazan casualties makes them unique . this is not to say that israel should consolate around a macabre of bloodshed .
even the imf now recognizes that capital market liberalization has delivered neither growth nor stability for many developing countries . yet , whether driven by a narrow ideology or a response to demands from specific interests , the bush administration continues to demand an extreme form of such liberalization in its bilateral trade deal . the second issue concerns the invocation of intellectual-property provisions ( trips ) of the uruguay round of trade talks dictated by america ’s pharmaceutical and entertainment industries . such provisions have restricted countries from making drug imitations , making many critically important medicines unaffordable in the developing world . spearheaded by worries about aids , un activists have demanded that something be done .
now that the cap is coming into force , the us will quickly reap the extraordinary effects of a new , sustained global health dividend . we can expect to see data in the years ahead indicating lower health-care costs and improved learning outcomes from around the world . meanwhile , at some point , governments will collaborate on incremental measures to decarbonize the environment and climate impact of the global maritime-trading system . such an effort is essential to reach the targets outlined in the 2015 paris climate agreement . as matters stand , the shipping sector – ranked alongside countries – is the world ’s sixth-largest greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emitter .
cambridge – the united states is famous for its ability to innovate . aspiring fiscal conservatives worldwide might seem to care about learning the four tricks that america ’s politicians are commonly using in promising tax cuts while cutting government deficits at the same time . these are tough promises , for the simple reason that a budget deficit is equal to government spending minus tax revenues . yet , over three decades , each one of these tricks has been refined . indeed , they have first made their colorful denunciation in the early years of ronald reagan ’s presidency : the imf ’s charm asterisk , ” a rosy scenario , ” ” ” ” ” ” the laffer hypothesis , and the “ starve the beast ” scenario .
so which is it that : are banks still at risk ? or has the post-crisis regulatory reform done its job ? the financial crisis of 2008 highlighted two dangerous features of today ’s financial system . first , governments will bail out some of the largest banks , rather than allow them to crash , damaging the economy . second , and even worse , being “ too big to fail ” helps big banks grow even larger , because lenders and trading partners prefer to work with banks with an implicit government guarantee .
while it will not yet be able to predict the outcome of the arab spring , the alliance has proved its capacity to act wisely in libya , thereby improving its image in north africa . in chicago , nato will agree on a major political declaration , offering further support to the region , on the condition that the countries it seeks for the region ’s countries . participants in chicago will have major differences over these matters , and results might not be ideal . nevertheless , re-shaping nato is a long-term process , and will necessarily emerge in small steps . the alliance ’s central goal must be to make steps forward .
argentina ’s new center-left president-elect , mauricio macri , an engineer through skills , is often described in the international press as a “ center-right . ” but that label , at least in theory , is not entirely correct . in argentina , the left-right divide has blurred the line of hydra-headed perónist justicialist justicialist party that privatized state companies only to re-nationalize them later . moreover , the center-right , often means “ conservative , ” ” ” and macri ’s victory will not “ redress ” the status quo . macri best describes himself as a “ liberal ” in europe .
women with an abnormal brca1 or brca2 gene run lifetime risks of up to 85 % in developing breast cancer , while an increased risk of developing ovarian cancers are roughly 55 % for women with brca1 mutations , and around 25 % for women with brca2 mutations . most recently , enormous studies analyzing the effects of single nucleotide variations in genomic dna , the so-called single nucleotide polymorphisms ( snp ) , on the risk of breast cancer from brca1/brca2 mutation carriers have identified the so-called modifier snp , which may decline or increase individual lifetime risk . at the same time , we have learned that only 20-40 % of all breast cancers that cluster in families coming from the brca1 or brca2 germline – gene alterations present from birth in each type of bodies and may transmit to the offspring . the increased risk of childhood cancer is also familiar with a number of inherited syndromes such as li-fraumeni syndrome , a condition further associated with the childhood onset of multiple malignancies including the soft bodily sarcomas , leukemias , and brain tumors . in most cases of familial breast cancer , however , a genetic predisposition remains elusive in scope .
xi ’s government struggles to maintain domestic stability as it shifts china away from labor-intensive , investment-heavy economic growth toward a model based on domestic consumption and services . the primacy of this domestic agenda implies that china ’s attempt to drive global change will lack a clear vision and coherent strategy . a second problem stemmed from china ’s incomplete shift on the world stage . after prevailing during world war ii , america immediately and undeniably dominated the globe . in seeking to lead the next phase of economic globalization , china enjoys no such geopolitical power and legitimacy .
our commitment to tackling the effects of climate change rests on our understanding of the tremendous health risks and costs implied by inaction . costa rica ’s devotes substantial resources to tackling problems like dengue fever and malaria , because our lives remain our most important asset . and staying below 1.5 ° c limits will mean 3.3 million fewer dengue fever annually in latin america and the caribbean , fewer people at risk of from malaria , and fewer food instability and poor nutrition caused by higher temperature and volatile weather patterns . costa rica takes pride in steering the world away by introducing this approach into practice . as a result , the us is one of the few countries that it is prepared to go beyond our commitments under the paris climate agreement .
promoting china 's ’s own traditional civilization , with its spiritual ties , was strengthened . there is now a real hope that talks along these lines could succeed . yet a major obstacle to easing tension exists : last year 's proposed $ 6.5 billion in sales by the united states to taiwan of the 30 apache attack helicopters and 330 patriot missiles . china-us talks on defense cooperation have stalled earlier , owing to such arms negotiations . they have since been restarted , the us-led olive branch sent to the obama administration .
speaking at the european parliament in brussels in april 2017 , ceu president and rector michael ignatieff might have said , “ i have the backing i has in washington . ” i have the support in berlin , where i have the support in budapest , [ … ] that i get the support in munich . the time has come to get some of the support he needs in brussels . and ignatieff has garnered some backing , at least initially . in december 2017 , the european commission took hungary to the european court of justice ( ecj ) over the administration of the so-called “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ ceu ” law , ” which the university has said is destined to compel it . ”
most chinese medical professionals and patients , for example , long viewed acupuncture as an efficient stroke of stroke , using it to improve the motor , talking , and other functions that were destroyed . one survey found that 66 % of chinese physicians use acupuncture routinely to treat the effects of stroke , with as much as 63 % of physicians surveyed believing that it is effective . some 36 % of chinese physicians feel that the effectiveness of acupuncture remains precarious , perhaps because the science foundation for it remains so new . more recently , however , a systematic scientific case for acupuncture " effects " in such therapy has begun . almost all trials for acupuncture as an treatment for a within china have had a positive effect .
even after years of quantitative easing ( qe ) and ultra-low interest rates , advanced-country central bankers , especially in the eurozone , have repeatedly undershot their own inflation targets . likewise , economists were forced to question long-held assumptions about downward nominal wage rigidity , an anti-70s , when organized labor was far more powerful . clearly , the notion that employees will invariably resist cutting wages ( or workers ’ hours ) no longer applies . in fact , labor ’s declining power may explain why the phillips curve no longer seems to hold true . but , even more important , it might be the reason why measured productivity remains stubbornly weak .
but the trade-off between increases in inequality and growth should not be sustained . rather , governments can make growth more effective through an increase in inclusiveness . a country of ’s most valuable resource , rightly , is its people . so ensuring that everyone can live up to its own potential is essential , which requires education opportunities for all . a modern economy also requires risk-taking .
this haughty attitude resonates with the jargon of “ consenting adults , ” as though it was doing something to the patient , like drawing blood , or directing the injection of injection : jan smith , please go mr. jones . instead , consent ought to be viewed as a patient of cherished possession that he or she may choose to relinquish , if presented with a sufficiently compelling case , when presented with a sufficiently compelling case . approtor should not get away with each other , like the train car that was kept out for the conductor . compounding the problem is the fact that consent gets just hours at the disposal of an operation , and the months following the latest consultation with the surgeon . this can induce patients to give informed consent to practices in which they are neither understood nor want .
those with its sought-after talents have more bargaining power , are better able to manage its careers , and command a higher share of wages . those without in-demand skills are struggling and feeling disposable . so far , this abundance of choices has discouraged companies from spending sources on skills training , which might soon decide to be joined by a competitor , for short time . nevertheless , as talent scarcity has loom , the need to retain employees could tip the balance back toward more investment in professional development . at the same time , employers that deliver skills will become a destination for talent .
similar to traditional military-command-and-control protocols , they acquire power in numbers , and can intervene quickly to a broad range of attacks . such a digital ecosystem strengthens checks and balances , reduces the possibility of failure , and mitigating the effects of an incursion . in such a scenario , a hollywood blockbuster might be about the networks of computers fighting one another , whereas humans stand by . it would portray the broader picture of “ singularity , ” ” ” ” a hypothetical turning point once an artificial overhead of human beings . fortunately , in this scenario , it is still quite a long way from imitating art .
on march 6 , i received six recommendations from a member of the “ scientific science20 ” group , formed by the g20 countries ’ national science academies . to minimize threats from marine ecosystems and conserve marine settings , the final two recommendations urge the “ foundation for improved data-storage and governance systems , which ensure open access to scientists globally , ” as well as “ “ “ sharing the information ” gained through large-scale , supranational collaboration to expedite a comprehensive understanding of the global ocean and its dynamics . ” it is precisely for this reason that we must ensure dfft and turn the data into public goods for researchers around the world . the g20 summit in osaka this coming at the dawn of a new era – reiwa ( “ beauty harmony ” ) – in june . on april 30 , the world witnessed his majesty ’s abdication of a emperor emeritus akihito , the first abdication of the reigning emperor after 202 years .
by investing in “ smart , ” and “ resilient ” urban planning , governments in france to curitiba in brazil are reinforcing their brand of identities and co-lasting talent , investment , and companies from around the world . the american-canadian author and urban activist jane jacobs famously observed that cities are true engines of national prosperity . first , cities power growth through innovation , free trade , and exchange . and city services are often considerably more visible to their citizens than federal aid ; consider , for example , how to responds during a time of traffic accidents or natural disaster . to be sure , today ’s cities face many challenges .
the risk is not just that economic rivalries , protectionism , and reduced trade restrictions would jeopardize global prosperity ; it is also that such developments would also raise the risk of a severe political confrontation . tech sovereignty would assume a place in trade and exchange , and corporations ’ nationality , even major multinational corporations , would become just as substantive as their business model . still , it would be a mistake to conclude that this entire conflict has been advanced solely by trump and his neo-nationalist agenda . two days after google announced its decision , the new york times published a commentary by thomas la. if it is where the former ideological high clericalism of globalization now stands , china stands out against not merely trump ’s in america , but also in liberal america .
in a small-nation setting , imposing a dense web of inspections seems likely to produce lost mobile factors of production , while in great state size , making it harder for labor or capital to flee . on the international stage , the great nations striving for international rule , often building up their claims to shape a bigger world : think about what french thinkers call “ harnessing globalization . ” instead of accepting an international system roughly as it does , with all of its imperfections , they think they can use their sheer weight to make a difference – in their own favor . small states ’ nervousness and fear began to rise at a rate of roughly tenfold in 2000 . new political realities were highlighted by the iraq war , with china ’s quest for energy resources in the developing world , and by russia ’s assertiveness in us foreign and domestic politics .
as a result , democratic legitimacy has won a major battle over the limits of social legitimacy . that opens the way for more and deeper reform . a law of restricting transport strikes took effect on january 1 , and sarkozy intends to crack down on a 35-hour workweek , however indirectly . instead of repealing laws , the task of overtime is to become easy , comparatively cheap . he is also preparing to raise the retirement age to 61 , from 60 .
with the exception of the united kingdom , an extreme free-market view has gained less traction in europe in recent decades than it did in america ; nonetheless , the call for eurozone-wide financial reform is actually more difficult . governments regard home banks as important purchasers of sovereign debt as a major purchaser of sovereign debt . the us banks argue that more efficient regulation would hamper credit , slowing the pace of economic recovery . as a result , authorities in germany and france ( like japan ) resoundingly resisted rising capital requirements , despite the widespread agreement that does so is an indispensable component of effective re-regulation . their opposition undermined international efforts to build a more resilient system and will probably hamper efforts to position the european economy on a sounder footing .
this reflects a fundamental conflict between thatcherism and trumpism : the latter aims to sweep away the neoliberal consensus of unregulated markets , privatizations , free trade , and immigration that comprised the former . but , however different ideas may be , tactics do just that . in order to consolidate support , thatcher would go head-to-head with carefully chosen enemies , from the british miners ’ party to argentina ’s president , general leon i galtieri , to the bureaucrats in brussels . likewise , as the hudson institute ’s craig kennedy recently pointed out to me , bannon wants to radicalize anti-trump liberals ’ struggle for causes that antagonize them from mainstream american americans . each time , trump ’s opponents march for women , muslims , or sex minorities get fortify trump ’s core support base .
young democracies may be brutal : their electorates are often as unforgiving as their political adversaries do . the next two weeks since taiwan ’s disputed presidential election on march 20 – only the third such democratic vote in a landslide in the country ’s history – has test that truism almost to the breaking point . taiwan ’s young democracy now must cope with the balancing act that president chen shui-bian ’s re-election has put a spotlight on it . while keeping for voting in his hometown in south taiwan on the eve of an election , president chen and vice president annette lu both injured over an assassassassassassin ’s bullet . sympathy this has secured a president his razor-thin margin for victory – with just 50.1 % of the popular vote – over lien chan , the kuomintang party ’s candidate and the people ’s first party ( kmt-pfp ) coalition .
the current effort to prop up the syrian government counts as twofer in this regard . but raising russia ’s standard of living remains central to putin ’s grip on power and his long legacy . even before intervening in ukraine , putin failed to deliver on his spectacular promise , made in 2003 , to double russia ’s size within a decade . relative to nominal per capita gdp , even with the exception of mexico , russia still functions little better . signature efforts to diversify and modernize the economy have failed , because disruptive technologies and business strategies can not be decreed on top .
cambridge – greek prime minister alexis tsipras had a chance to become to his country what south korean president kim dae-jung and brazilian president , luiz inácio lula da silva , had to theirs : the left-wing man of the left who moves toward fiscal responsibility and freer markets . like tsipras , both were elected amid an economic crisis . both instantly confront international finance constraints , which opposition politicians can least afford to neglect . on assuming power , kim and lula succeeded in adjusting , politically , and socially , to the new realities that confronted them , initiating much-needed reforms . some of the reforms were “ “ conservative ” ( or “ neoliberal ” ) , and perhaps impossible under the right-wing politicians .
annual state-run economic growth averaged over 10 % , from 2006 to 2012 , when the gujarati city of ahmedabad short-listed on the lee kuan yew of the world city prize . but history haunts modi ’s campaign – namely , his death rate of over 1,000 people in anti-muslim riots in gujarat in 2002 . though it was only a clear symptom of all personal wrongs in the us supreme court , tragedy ’s legacy persists , making modi more difficult to win muslim votes without alienating his hindu nationalist base . this did not stop modi from taking political risks , beginning with his assertion that india needs toilets more than temples . but his decision to run for prime minister appears to be by far his riskiest move , because it would test his national appeal .
xi ’s anti-corruption campaign can not overcome that resistance ; the eu is simply discouraged by initiative . on a recent visit to beijing , a chinese economist told me that xi ’s ’s campaign cost china 1 % of gdp annually . a chinese businessman had told me that true growth was less than half that of an formal figure . maybe that may countered the private sector ’s underlying dynamism ; but , even there , fear that he will lose control enhances the party ’s role . finally , there is china ’s ’s ’s ’s soft-power deficits .
meanwhile , both turkey and the united states have a mutual interest in working together in iraq , syria , and iran . but , because turkey builds closer ties with america and its competition with iran stiffens in both iraq and syria , it will also have to contend with an increasingly assertive russia that is eager to demonstrate itself both to the middle east and the eastern mediterranean – and to maintain its foothold in syria . for better or worse , the middle east ’s status quo has unraveled , and turkey needs to rethink and recalibrate its regional policies . turkey ’s seeming real strengths lie in its thriving economy , a secular democratic system , and the ability to mediate among its western allies and a region that struggles to join the twenty-first-century mainstream of the twenty-first century . how turkey has navigated the syrian debacle will determine its own position within its neighborhood .
those remedies have lowered rates for new infections ( though the total number of people living with hiv , particularly between 15 and 49 , continue to rise ) . with nearly two million patients now on antiretroviral therapy , yearly aids-related deaths have dropped by about 100,000 since 2005 . contagion among newborn rubs , once running at about 70,000 annually , has halved by some 63 % , and the livelihoods of millions of present-sturers has prolonged . another important factor driving the treatment plan has been improved . the us government has aligned its early antiretroviral treatment programs for incumbent sufferers , beginning in 2008 with early monitoring programs for pregnant women .
but this can not happen unless the nature ’s cornucopia is an conserved by the simultaneous and future generation of researchers to produce new breakthroughs that benefit patients everywhere . consider the polar bear , threatened by wildlife-related extinction . these mammals spend up to seven months or more of a year of hibernating , during which time they are essentially inert . the human would lose sight of a third , or even more of a bone mass , when inversely related to that era . astonishingly , hibernating bears lay down a new bone , by producing a kind of substance that breaks down by bone , promoting those that produce bone and cartilage .
but they need stronger support , not only from the air or arms and training , but from the western special forces as well . there is a powerful argument as well , for nato to recognize that one of its nato members , france , has been attacked , to activate article 5 of the north atlantic treaty , which ensures cooperation in defense . the entire alliance should commit itself to defeating terrorism . yet this is not only europe ’s struggle or that . it is about a global order within a stable , prosperous world .
now , the eu is at the center of domestic political debates , increasingly involving existential questions about europe ’s survival and the entire european project . that means that the eu candidates in next year ’s general election are unlikely simply to focus squarely on domestically . while some of this will likely remain , for the first time , widespread debate about europe ’s ’s future and policies , particularly in areas like migration , defense , and security , energy , and climate relations with major powers like the united states and russia . after all , despite their differences , virtually every country in europe today seems to conflate with the question of how much europe wants , how open , and optimistic it should be about new forms of technology-enabled globalization and the appropriate degree of social solidarity . such debates – and thus the european parliament that emerges next year – are unlikely to adhere to standard party lines .
market failure is a fact of life , but hence of government failure . neo-liberal ideologies assume perfect markets , perfect information , and host to other things that not even the best-performing market economies can satisfy them . • whereas neo-liberals worry too much about over-administration , weak government impedes growth , because weak nation-states can not provide laws and order , nor can laws ensure a secure , sound banking system . after all , it was excessively loose regulation – capital and financial-market liberalization that robin hood in east asia by the imf and america ’s us treasury – that led to the financial crisis of 1997 . the issue should not have been about how to deregulate quickly , but about the development of the proper regulatory framework .
certainly , they will do so , but so ? any and all monetary-policy actions redistribute wealth , for example . an interest-rate hike pleases savers , whereas rate cutting is a boon to borrowers . us importers prefer a strong exchange rate ; exporters prefer a weak one . to make any economic sense , monetary policy must have different effects at different groups .
in any case , the chinese wage story is far more complicated than it might seem . indeed , nominal wages may rise , while real wages stagnate , owing to higher inflation . even if real wages rise in some coasts , “ surplus labor ” could keep the national average flat . and not even any national real wage increase will undermine competitiveness as long as labor productivity grows faster . so the implication seems that wage growth will not threaten china ’s competitiveness in the next decade or 20 years .
to judge whether or not their prices rise too high at the current exchange rate , we need to look at the trade balance . germany , europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s largest exporter , has a very large trade surplus with the rest of the world . because germany ’s exports have become attractive for foreign buyers at its current exchange rate , germany in 2009 was the world ’s second-largest exporter ( after china ) . germany ’s exports have exceeded its imports by almost $ 200 billion during the preceding twelve months , a surplus equivalent to almost 6 % of its gdp . what is obvious is that germany ’s net exports would remain high even if the euro appreciated substantially from its current level .
these structural elements were strengthened by developments in the region , which strengthened a sense among israeli voters that they were encumbered by numerous enemies : iran and its nuclear aspirations ; hezbollah and hamas and hamas and its rockets ; the rise of isis amid failed states in iraq , syria , libya , and elsewhere . against this backdrop , it is easier to defend the status quo than to advocate accommodations that involving territorial concessions . netanyahu ’s ’s victory was obviously a formidable personal comeback . in the weeks leading up to the election , netanyahu appeared to have grown weary of a prime minister who had been in office long enough to be corrupted by shiite arrogance and tainted by a raft of petty scandals . he conducted a campaign relying on his eloquence and charisma as on scare tactics .
so investment should gradually be gradually gradual , which can mean temporarily storing some of the oil wealth abroad . throughout this process , kenya ’s leaders should bear in mind that even the best plans can , over time , go awry , as ghana ’s recent experience demonstrated . four billion barrels of oil emerged from ghana ’s coast in 2007 and production started in 2010 . the management of petroleum revenue the following year has distributed wealth both among consumption , investment , and offshore savings , as recommended by economists worldwide ( including the us ) . yet , with the presidential election last year , the situation started to worsen .
back in 1997 , the imf and the united states treasury blamed the crisis on financial markets ’ lack of transparency . but when developing countries highlighted fingers at stealth bank accounts and hedge funds , the imf and america ’s enthusiasm about greater transparency diminished . since then , its hedge funds have grown importance , with covert bank accounts thriving . but between now and now , there are some large differences . most developing countries have been accumulating massive foreign-currency reserves .
in any case , the hardships suffered by eu citizens could end up being lessened if draghi ’s “ final prescription ” – providing more fiscal and monetary stimulus in some areas to counteract reform and fiscal consolidation in others . by selectively addressing the most perilous risk , draghi was able to minimize them . policymakers should do the same when considering sanctions against russia , mitigating their impact on those europeans who stand to suffer the most . european policymakers have the tools and intelligence tools to retain influence in ukraine . if they look at the ecb , they will find the right model to deploying them .
while news reports surfacing that palin tell a group of african-americans that she did not have to hire blacks , working-class white women often see her own experiences with regard to racial hostility . they perceive an underclass as a faith denied to them , and a thriving economy in the developing world that siphons away out well-paying blue-collar jobs . so , now that sarah palin is escorted into the media limelight , she will become the symbolic revenge fantasy of many of those being silenced , depleted factory workers , and campaign secretaries . to see the working-class white wife be picked to serve a heartbeat from an american president resonates powerfully with them . think about the appeals of movies like thelma and a louise , or a working girl in whom her leading character is a gutsy , exploited secretary who , “ the trampled ” of a snooty female ivy league boss , nonetheless manages to end up with her dreams of job , dreams guy , and corner office .
china has already delivered on this front by abandoning the us growth model , which has successfully driven the country ’s breakneck economic development for over 30 years . it recognizes the need to shift from a model focused mainly on exports – and investment-led production ( through manufacturing ) to one led by private consumption ( through the services sector ) to one led by private consumption ( through services ) . this change will give china a far better chance of avoiding the dreaded “ middle-income trap ” that ensnares most developing economies , precisely because their policymakers mistakenly believe that a early-stage takeoff growth recipe is sufficient to achieve developed-country status . the american and chinese cases do n’t exist in a vacuum . as i stressed in my new book the codependency of china and american ties together inextricably .
hong kong – next month , policymakers , business leaders , academics , and civil-society representatives will convene in kiel , germany , for the global economic symposium ( ges ) in order to try to develop concrete solutions for today ’s most urgent economic issues . whether they produce effective proposals will depend on a comprehensive understanding of the factors that underpin – and undermines – financial stability globally . at davos summit dialogues a forward-looking central-bank report , which pitted inflation-targeting against financial stability , produced three solutions : central banks should adopt a countercyclical policy approach ; a world monetary authority should be created to promote multilateral cooperation among central bank countries ; and price stability must remain central banks a ’ primary objective . while such solutions have some merit , they are inadequate to cope with effectively the complex , far-reaching flaws that led by 2007-2009 ’s global financial crisis . the crisis represented a profound systemic failure , involving breakdowns at nearly all levels , from macroeconomic theory to micro-level incentives to individual institutions .
piketty ’s framework emphasizes several drivers of this trend . for starters , by cracking down on trade and investment barriers , we have created a winner-take-all environment in which the most technologically advanced actors have captured market shares through cutting-edge economies . specifically , as the global economy moves toward knowledge-based value creation , a small number of innovators in global branding , high-technology , and “ creative ” industries win large , with the global tech boom augmenting their gains . the results-based concentration of income , wealth , and power undermines systemic stability by creating too-big-to-fail actors while undermining smaller players ’ capacity to compete . the global financial system reinforces this concentration , with negative real interest rates fueling financial repression on household saving .
but prevention also needs to address the dangers posed by potentially destabilizing capital movements . recent experience teaches that the speed and magnitude , with which both home and foreign investors can move in and out of capital markets , far exceed individual countries ’ capacity – and the international community ’s – to counter such inflows . many countries have no foreign-currency reserves that are sufficient to satisfy abrupt and large capital outflows without destabilizing their domestic economies . sometimes such outflows may occur through the country ’s fault , but because financial-market contagion spread from disturbances elsewhere . all of this phenomenon was too apparent during the asian crisis , and following the russian debt default of august 1998 .
like the courtiers who surround louis xviii , they have largely forgotten and learned nothing . so the only real question now is whether brown ’s verdict on europe will be “ not quite yet quite yet , ” “ not before the next election , ” or just a “ no ” thing . it is an option , virtually independently of prime minister tony blair , that and even of his desires . blair believes that britain wants to join the euro because it wants britain to be , as he puts it , “ at the heart of europe . ” most commentators have tended to assume that if this is what tony blair wants , then sooner or later that is what will happen , because , after all , he is prime minister .
trump ’s rejection of such a rejection of “ reasoned discourse , ” including commitment to truth and proof , has been accompanied by an unlimited “ capacity ” to manipulate mass opinion and play on so repressing emotions as racism and class envy . the result of trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s approach is that america ’s ’s ’s ’s existing problems worsen and massive opportunities get away with it . but , as much as they may be , what could stop the demons that have already unleashed ? and yet , while they may be stopped , can the damage they have already done to trump be reversed ? there was some opposition from trump when he failed to condemn any clearly a white supremacist demonstrators in charlottesville , virginia , whose “ unite the right of the ” rally in august has ended with the assassination of a counterprotester .
finally , trump has proposed tax deductions for average childcare , too . that might seem widely beneficial , but he would have helped only those in high enough tax brackets to itemize deductions – for the fact that , in many cases , households with annual incomes above $ 75,000 ( median american household income was $ 54,462 in 2015 ) . the question for whether trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s tax policies would benefit directly remains unanswered , because , unlike any of the other presidential candidates since richard nixon , he refused to loosen his income-tax records . to be sure , what is certain is that trump ’s own tax policies are fiscally irresponsible . indeed , there is little indication of how any of his tax policies would be financed and any indication that he is sharply expanding the us budget deficit .
and , in south africa , marlon parker , the co-founder of the academy of social innovation and incubator jammu , has created a virtual currency , known as zlato , to encourage active participation in skills-training workshops . when young people attend courses , access laptops , or book rooms in rlabs café cafes , they are earning zlato credit , which can exchange for food , sanitation , and basic necessities . since its inception in 2008 , the bangladeshi center for human development has established tens of thousands of jobs , and is now active in just 24 countries . africa ’s youngest entrepreneurs are not merely finding ways to support themselves and contribute to their communities ; they are solving the primary cause of migration on – and off – the continent . for example , entrepreneurs backed up by the anzisha prize , created more than 300 jobs and generated over $ 850,000 in capital
but then perhaps scotland would demand its own peculiar arrangement vis-à-vis the eu , putting the uk on a track for a major constitutional shakeup and potentially dissolution . avoiding that scenario implies sacrificing autonomy over trade policy over the good friday agreement and territorial integrity . yet this would upset hardline brexiteers , and could well split the conservative party , a risk theresa may has been reluctant to fend off . british leaders need to admit that all brexit scenarios involve tradeoffs , and that the country urgently needs a domestic debate to rank electorate ’s preferences . the choice is between one of three brexit scenarios and suspending the brexit process completely .
the country also received about $ 70 billion per year in remittances , more than doubling the level of inward foreign direct investment in the united states last year . there is no doubt a utilitarian aspect of pravasi bharatiya divas celebrations , as suggested by the many parallel seminars running by state governments in order to attract expatriate investment . the prominence of diaspora finance , owing to working-class indians ’ remittances that have transformed kerala ’s ’s countryside into the millions poured into high-tech ventures in bangalore or the gurgaon of silicon valley investors – simply can not add up , particularly during the global financial crisis . but the us should not get carried away : overseas indians still invest a lower share of their gdp in india than do overseas chinese . encouraging them to do more , and giving them reason to do more , is surely a worthwhile task for india ’s government – and the overt focus on the annual conclave .
firms that ignore the broader social and environmental context in which they operate are likely to pay a price : reputational harm and loss of brand value , falling sales , hardship in recruiting talent , declining worker productivity , declining corruption , tougher government regulation , or skyrocketing climate-change-related expenses . now , cell-phone apps are being made to evaluate and grade multinational companies ’ supply chains . companies that scores have missed out on sales and investors , and triggering official regulatory or regulatory activism . apple ’s brands , for example , have recently been shaken by revelations about brutal workplace conditions at its foxconn factory in china , where most of its customers and ipads are assembled . in response to consumer concerns among customers , employees , and shareholders , apple has improved working conditions , agreeing to regular reviews by an independent observer .
they , too , tolerate enterprise or government policies that incentivize high savings . for example , the up-and-save trend in china began around the same period that its one-child policy had been implemented in 1979 . this kept birth rates from rebounding following the 1966-76 cultural revolution . the late nobel laureate economist franco modigliani , in his recent major published paper in a 2004 project ( co-authored with shi cao ) , argued that this demographic change explains much of the increase in saving rates , because the chinese substituted investment in child investment . but income growth and demographics do not explain everything .
while the concept is modern , the concept is not a new one . practical people have long understood its significance in leadership . in the 1930s , the former supreme court justice oliver wendell holmes of holmes , the american civil war veteran , undertaken to meet franklin d. roosevelt , a fellow harvard graduate but one that was not a distinguished student . later , asks his impressions of a new us president , holmes quipped : “ second-class intellect ; first-class temperament . ” most historians would agree that franklin d. roosevelt ’s success as a leader rested more on his own emotional than his analytical iq iq .
a separate but simultaneous vote in the oil-rich province of abyei will allow voters to choose if they wish to join the north or the south . an artificial fusion of predominantly arab , the muslim north of sudan , and the arab south , where christianity and the traditional animist faith are predominant , was abject failure . ever since sudan won independence from the united kingdom in 1956 , the country has been wrenching by an almost constant north-south cultural and religious divide . matters were further complicated by a standalone conflict – this time among muslims – over resources in the west darfur region . if a non-muslim south achieved at independence a high level of religious , cultural , and administrative autonomy within a decentralized federal structure , the country is inconceivable to itself and in peace .
when i was the undp administrator , i had to contend with continual “ requests ” from governments . typically , they were formulated in acceptable ways , questioning me to “ look on ” a particular issue . but i also received requests , often from the global superpowers , in ways that , in clear violation of article 100 of the un charter , i had to spend large amounts of time trying to avoid engaging with governments on such grounds . nonetheless , my comprehensive experiences at the undp and the world bank have suggested that staffing and governance can and do business in line with article 100 . responsive to member states ’ concerns and priorities was right and ordinary ; taking orders from it was not .
more broadly , the investor ’s agenda for the low-carbon world has attracted 477 signatories , representing about $ 34 trillion in corporate governance assets . these investors are calling on governments not only to rein in rising temperatures , but also to meet the paris climate agreement ’s tougher objective of limiting global warming to 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels . meanwhile , those who ignore climate-change warnings have already taken the form of a financing hit . blackrock , the world ’s largest fund managers , has lost around $ 90 trillion over the past decade , about three-quarters of it due to his holdings in exxonmobil , chevron , chevron , shell , and bp . and investors in general electric , including blackrock , have lost a whopping $ 193 billion in each of the three years leading up to 2018 , ostensibly because the companies have grossly judged the pace of the shift toward green energy and the collapse in demand of gas-guzzling construction and thermal electricity stations .
a conflict with the united states is unlikely , at least not likely . at such a delicate time internally , china would obtain antagonizing america . yet trouble with america 's allies , particularly japan , might draw a fight that it strenuously prefers to avoid . in short , china is on the precipice of vast , necessary , and dangerous transformations that promise to transform the country for the better – or to make everything done , including regional stability , far worse . the whole world has very much at stake in what happens next .
south africa ’s post-apartheid constitution guarantees the right to public-sector information , and , in many cases , private business information is just as well . south africa adopted the rule of law in 2000 , five years before the united kingdom did . now , however , south africa ’s information right is ill . in late november , the lower house of parliament , headed by a majority of the african national congress ( anc ) , overwhelmingly sanctioned a new law – “ protecting the nation ” information bill ” – whose acceptance would shield the country ’s mushrooming political and entrepreneurial elites from public scrutiny . to be sure , south africa ’s nobel prize-winning novelist and anti-apartheid activist , nadine gordimer , has likened that bill to the apartheid legislation .
washington , dc – the chinese economy has been slowing in recent years , yet it remains a potent performer , contributing about one third quarters of total economic growth globally . it is also becoming more sustainable , in line with a shift to its growth model away from reliance on investment and exports , and toward domestic demand and services . in the run-up to next month ’s g20 summit in hangzhou , china became loudly pressed for new structural-reform pledges to stimulate growth across both the advanced and emerging economies . but , increasingly , as china faces severe risks at home , it is facing major risks . domestic credit , in particular , continues to expand at an unsustainable pace , with corporate debt accumulating to dangerously dangerous levels .
hong kong – at the start of this century , as china launched its “ ” ” ” ” ” policy , focused on the use of its foreign-exchange reserves to support overseas expansion and acquisitions by chinese firms , few expected the country to emerge quickly as the leading economic player in latin america . even so , this is precisely what has gone wrong . the question now is whether that will be good for latin america . in less than 15 years , china has walked away from playing its rather peripheral economic role in latin america by becoming among the top investors and business partners for most of the region ’s countries , as has its foremost lender and infrastructure builder . with its economic plans in latin america cruising along smoothly , a trend that appears unlikely to change anytime soon , china has set its sights on another objective : expanding its geopolitical clout in the region and beyond .
nonetheless , there is little question as to whom america ’s presidential candidate putin wants to see in the white house . in remarks following a press conference , trump praised trump as “ very colorful , talented person ” ” ” ” ” ” ” and the “ absolute absolute leader of a us presidential race . ” to be sure , the two men also deserve one another . both are consummate propagandists and performers alike . and both are prepared , even keen , to bully , harangue , and lie to trump forward .
the first has been to adopt the center right ’s agenda , pursuing labor-market , tax , and investment policies that are “ adapting ” ” france to “ “ capitalist ” globalization . ” somewhat surprisingly , this is the route that it initially chose , swiftly went to a business-oriented international press darling . another avenue would oblige macron to build on the pre-existing but vague vision of left-wing internationalism . as a practical matter , this would mean pursuing policies to aid the middle class while updating an obsolete center-left program to account for the effects of disruptive technologies and business models . as the nobel laureate economist dani rodrik has long argued , more globalization requires a bigger nation-state , so as to compensate those displaced by free trade , capital-account liberalization , and so forth .
in a benign scenario , people will club together in diverse states on the preferences of big or small government , public or private provision of the service , and of international cooperation or isolationism . mick mulvaney , trump ’s budget director , has himself made the case . “ if you live up to a state that wants to mandate affordable maternity coverage for everyone , including 60-year-old women ; that ’s ’s ’s ’s fine , ” ” “ ” you can figure out a way to change the state that you live in ” or alter “ state legislatures and state laws , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” in mulvaney ’s words . “ why is we looking to the federal government to try and correct our local problems ? in a vindictive scenario , by contrast , trump and the us congress could be seeking to rein in progressive states ’ rights .
for years , over-dependence on traditional fuels has discouraged power generation from investment in clean-power-generation technologies , despite the fact that the two countries are innovators in green industries , such as energy-storage systems and smart grids . whereas 22 % of south korea ’s energy needs and 14 % of taiwan ’s gdp meet nuclear standards , these ratios are now set to drop dramatically . blueprints is still being formulated , but participating in the two countries ’ pledges mark a major shift in regional energy planning toward greener , cleaner technologies . in addition , they then pave the way for increased investment in infrastructure installations , placing their countries on a new regional competitive edge . south korea ’s strategy calls for a gradual withdrawal from the country ’s nuclear industry through its failure to renewal of existing licenses and prohibitions on its future plant .
under the heavy american pressure , china ’s leaders did , in principle , resolve to float the renminbi , but refuse to say when . a floating currency is unavoidable , because china liberalizes its capital markets and eliminates restrictions on international capital movements ; otherwise , it would be forced to surrender control over its money-supply and american-style interest rates . yet china ’s rulers are right to postpone a us float on the euro decision . the chinese can delay but can not hide from fundamental economics laws : when exchange rates between the two countries ’ currencies are fixed and capital flows between them are unconstrained , the economically dominant us controls on another ’s monetary policy . because the us dollar is the dominant global reserve currency and america ’s fed controls supply of u.s. dollars , as long as china sticks to its fixed exchange rate , it can not control its own monetary supplies .
so we are in a current race to the top . can we turn the tap into zero net emissions before the bathwater can hit us above the 2ºc threshold be laid in paris ? in fact , even that level may not be low enough . as the paris agreement recognizes , many scientists believe that above-1.5 ºc warming will be risky , and that adaptation will be extremely costly , especially for developing countries and israel . the good news is that if we get at any time to stop all emissions today , temperatures would continue rising only over a decade , or perhaps for decades , before stabilizing .
indeed , not one thinks of the consequences , both for the uk in the global trading system or for the effect on domestic political stability . my worried that this wo n’t be a neat picture . mind you do , western citizens are blessed for living during times of peace : changing circumstances and priorities can be tackled through democratic processes in the eu through foreign and civil wars . but what , precisely , is a fair , democratic process for making irreversible , nation-defining decisions ? is this really good enough to vote 52 % to vote for a breakup on a rainy day ?
defense expenditure amounts to 1.6 % of gdp in germany , 2 % in italy , and 1.5 % in spain ; only france and the united kingdom reach 3 % . however , confining discussion of a defense commitment to as much as a percentage of gdp spent on militaries is insufficient , because there are economies of scale in defense spending . thus , one would expect the smaller countries to spend proportionally more on defense than on the bigger ones . instead , america today spends more than most of its nato allies combined , and america ’s defense spending is likely to rise even further during the years to come . security and global influence is n’t the only benefit that comes through military spending .
new york – at the 73rd session of the un general assembly later this month , a widespread sense of foreboding among world leaders was apparent . the anxiety went beyond standard concerns about what us president donald trump would say , do , or a tweet . even before the summit began , europeans , canadians , mexicans , and jacques chirac had consulting in earnest on the need for new alliances to save the multilateral system . in the late 1960s , former us secretary of state dean acheson looked back at the immediate post-war era , feeling as if it had been “ present at the creation ” of a new world based on shared rules and multilateral institutions . yet , at the nazi-ga that year , many attendees felt as though they were present at the destruction of that world .
in the medium and long term , the world abounds with the tensions and potential crises that america ’s leadership is probably indispensable for resolving . as events over the last two weeks in egypt have shown all too vividly , the arab awakening continues only in its first acts in many countries . indeed , us democracy is fragile , at best across north africa ; and , at best , in the middle east , jordan , palestinian territories , kuwait and saudi arabia has merely started to feel the ripple effects of a tidal wave sweeping the region . bahrain remains a flashpoint ; iraq is profoundly unstable ; and the simmering conflict between iran and israel could flare up anytime soon . even as america has not been on its front lines , it has played a vital role in behind-the-scenes diplomacy , nudging rivals closer to one another to generate a united opposition , and working with regional leaders such as turkey , egypt , and saudi arabia to broker deals .
in today ’s germany , because no one with decisive force in business , finance , or government has experienced war , the european project is no longer viewed as conditioning europe ’s collective future . these new leaders envision europe only as an international trading regime . meanwhile , german diplomacy is actively reconstructing a country with ’s economic and cultural spheres of influence , and not only in eastern europe . the impact of that lost european perspective became starkly apparent in the fall of 2008 , when , during the aftermath of the subprime crisis and the failures of lehman brothers , german chancellor angela merkel ’s first impulse was nationalistic and wholly anti-european . no common european plan or no call for public money .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , that is what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . such flaws are particularly apparent in poland , where a highly centralized political system creates a pernicious , winner-take-all dynamic .
when does a free-trade agreement do the wrong thing ? when the underlying implication of the treaty is neither about trade nor freedom is on the line . such a pact – call for the “ united economic space ” – is now entering many parts of russia , ukraine , kazakhstan , and belarus . on the surface , a “ united economic space ” sounds like something that should applaud . however , the sad truth is that the treaty will merely entrench the country ’s corrupt and penal business practices , not enhance trade or prosperity .
the ascent of nahda ( renaissance ) , a leader of the islamist parties , is a reflection less of latent ideological support among newly-liberated people than is a testament to the party ’s remarkable ability to fill its post-revolutionary political power . since january , nahda has opened more than 200 significant offices . scores of volunteers are being deployed in grassroots electoral campaigning at grassroots , door-to-door levels . the party ’s imposing headquarters in downtown tunis symbolize its place as the country ’s most effective political operation by far . whereas opponents ominously recall the participation of party cadres in the deadly bombing of tourist targets in 1991 , nahda gone to some lengths to appease his critics .
consider , first , the claim by the dollar ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s status as reserve currency protects it because governments around the world need to hold dollars as foreign-exchange reserves . the problem is that the foreign-exchange holdings of dollar securities no longer primarily “ foreign-exchange reserves ” ” in the conventional sense . in earlier decades , countries held dollars because they needed an extremely liquid , widely accepted currency to bridge the financing gap if their imports exceeded their exports . the obvious candidate for this reserve fund was america ’s treasury bills . but , since the late 1990 ’s , countries like south korea and taiwan have been accumulating very large volumes of foreign reserves , reflecting both export-driven growth strategies and the desire to avoid repeating the speculative currencies of the 1997-1998 asian financial crisis .
by bad economics , i mean permitting financial markets to dictate what happens to the real economy . good economics , on the other hand , recognizes a government ’s duty to protect its constituents against a distress , insecurities , and catastrophe . it is extremely difficult for liberals to embrace the belief that bad politics can produce good economics , and that good politics can actually produce bad economics . and yet hungary offers a clear example of this past . under prime minister viktor orbán , the country has emerged as an increasingly authoritarian government .
countries and organizations from around the world are already mobilizing . the un ’s food and agricultural organization ( fao ) argues that rising food prices could lead to global conflicts . the davos world economic forum ranks food insecurity as the leading risk to mankind . the world bank , for its part , has forcefully emphasized the importance of agriculture in order to jump-start economic expansion and break the cycle of poverty . un secretary general ban ki-moon has created a working group to define a joint plan of action , and france ’s ’s ’s president nicolas sarkozy has proposed the global food partnership .
and yet negative bond yields are occurring simultaneously in countries and regions in which the currency is depreciating , and is likely to depreciate further , including germany , other parts of the eurozone , and japan . so , why , then , are investors holding such assets ? many long-term investors , such as insurance companies and pension funds , do not have an alternative , because they are obliged to hold out safer bonds . to be sure , negative returns force their balance sheets shakier : a defined-benefit retirement plans needs a positive respite , and at a time when most of their asset yields negatively nominal yield , such outcomes become more difficult to achieve . but , given such investors ’ long-term liabilities ( claims and utility ) , their mandates are primarily in bonds that are less risky than stocks or other volatile assets .
in his first year and a half in office , macron started to tackle those problems and have succeeded in delivering a budget consistent with eu deficit-reduction rules . the problem is that , by pursuing such reforms , macron has abandoned his core center-left constituency . his reforms seem consistently to have benefited the wealthy . and so , having been announced that his administration would scale up his diesel fuel , midwifery – and working-class commuters took to the streets . with polls indicating that about 70 % of the french support the yellow vest protestors , macron has been forced to retreat .
as it stands , perhaps the greatest barriers to international cooperation are political . in recent years , there has been an intensifying backlash against international cooperation , rooted partly in fears , stoked by populist political leaders in many countries , that supranational “ elites ” are striving to impose a “ globalism ” : the ideology that prioritizes the neoliberal global order over national interests . yet perspectives that are blurring that narrative seems to be gaining ground . many world leaders ’ belief that western countries have squandered their influence over the international system , by intervening politically and militarily in the affairs of others , without any obvious endgame . some also argue that the global elite has merely pretend to pursue socioeconomic change while actually sustaining the status quo that has benefited them .
by causing inflation to rise , the fed would turn the real interest rate into severe negative , thereby coercing thrifty households into eu spending needs . with rising demand , firms would hire ; all would happen well . while that is a different logic from the one calling for inflation as a way to lower long-term debt ( to investors ’ detriment ) , it has just as severe vulnerabilities . for one thing , while low rates might stimulate spending if credit were easy , it is not at all obvious that the traditional savers are going away and spending in the first place . think of an soon-to-be office worker , not an option .
while the g-8 made its final pledge , there was no blueprint for how it could be fulfilled ; indeed , there were clear guidelines that no such plan would exist . the g-8 is now reaping the consequences of its inaction . for the first year after the gleneagles meeting , the aid arithmetic padded misleading accounting of debt cancellation operations . with these debt cancellation operations largely completed , the data now reveal stark truth : development aid for africa and poorer countries more generally remains stagnant in defiance of all of the promises made . specifically , from 2005 to 2006 , total aid to africa , excluding debt cancellation operations , has increased at a rate of meager 2 % .
perhaps the biggest grievance of the past year have led to a kind of inequality . on the global level , however , inequality is decreasing . and while inequality has risen within some advanced economies , the increase has not been particularly dramatic and remains at reasonable levels . but that , in my view , is not what an average citizen sees in them . according to the european bank for reconstruction and development a new transition report , based on life at the transition survey produced by the world bank and ebrd ( where i am chief economist ) , the perceived rise in inequality far exceeds any reality cited by official survey data typically .
washington , dc – the united states federal reserve ’s governing system is among the world ’s boldest economic-policy organizations in global history . america ’s central bank has controlled the fed in providing dollars , and is currently exerts heavy influence over interest rates , both for short - and long-term borrowing . and , while the fed has been partly responsible for the regulatory failures that led to the global economy ’s near-meltdown in 2008-2009 , post-crisis reform left it with even more authority and a larger responsibility for overseeing the us financial system . that is a worrying outcome , given that prominent fed officials seem to have slid back into their pre-2008 course , ignoring concerns about dangerous financial-sector behavior – even when these concerns debunked by membership of america ’s senate banking committee members . that is not only unfortunate ; it is also dangerous because the fed ’s own political standing is far more precarious than its leadership seems to realize .
more through luck than through wisdom , this catastrophic situation has not developed . unless a global catastrophe is likely – a meteorite effect , world war i , or a pandemic – mankind will remain a major environmental force for many millennia to come . as a result , scientists and engineers are facing daunting challenges during the anthropocene era : managing us toward environmentally sustainable management . that will require fitting human behaviors at every level , and may well involve internationally-accepted , large-scale geo-engineering projects to “ optimize ” climate . at this stage , however , we still mostly treading on terra incognita .
in all of these cases , a cynic would be half-right . constitutional change is for political leaders a welcome distraction from the far more change-related social-welfare issues . but , again , there are at least two exceptions to this suspicions . one is the creation of democracy and the rule of law within the countries that have only recently emerged from dictatorship . the process demands a constitution that makes a little more comprehensive and painful .
this undermines corporate profitability , encourages companies to deleverage and cut investment , and fueling further declines in ppi . the enduring significance of real-estate investment toward china ’s anemic economic rise reflects the trends from its first quarter of this year . annual gdp growth of 6.7 % , despite being the slowest pace of any three quarters in seven years , has exceeded market expectations . and it has been driven , in part , by unforeseen increases in real-estate investment , to more than 6 % . this is not to say that what china needs is more real-estate investment .
but this does not mean that trump skeptics may just sit back and wait to become apparent wrong , for it seems possible that by the first year an reported us trade deficit will narrow , even as america ’s true trade deficit widens . all pass to “ transfer pricing ” – a share price multinational corporations use to put some of their cross-border trade in inputs among their subsidiaries . consider the american pharmaceutical company , which establishes a us plant in iran . an iranian affiliate imports some inputs ( most notably , a intellectual property represented by a us drug patent ) , assembles a product in iran , and exporting it back to an american dollar . in value-added terms , a patent does the largest contribution .
the recommendations have included increasing affordable transportation to family-planning facilities , expanding access to modern contraception ( including emergency contraception ) , increasing sexual education ’s availability , and developing strategies to reduce the stigma of abortion . and yet , as part of american policy , none of these changes will come easily . if countries like south africa ever begins to flee republican administrations ’ assault on reproductive freedom , there is a need for new strategies to combat the global gag rule . domestically , solutions call for developing countries to start moving away from the conditional aid that restricts health providers ’ ’ ’ ability to work under local laws . crucially , local ngos , together with responsive global development , must find new support for programs that educate women about their rights and ensure access to safe abortion services .
we want technology firms to play a central role in providing opportunities for new ideas and disruptive thinking . we want firms that already offer online education for refugees , internet access , and hardware to drive educational provision for displaced and isolated girls and boys . in establishing that fund , we mean the end of a formulaic crisis response . it was gandhi ’s belief that reflection could motivate action by the recalibration of our own moral compass . what makes this fund unique is not the many new benchmarks it sets .
civil society was energized by the maidan revolution , which ousted former president viktor yanukovych , but ran into turmoil . debate over joining an association agreement with the european union , together with a russian-backed rebellion in eastern ukraine , stoke tensions over distinctions that previously played little , or no role , in people ’s lives . yet , since the parliamentary election in october , ukraine has started to draw itself together . russia ’s intervention had to some extent backfired , reinforcing its support for a european orientation . eastern ukraine might have voted in different ways from the rest of the country , but its overwhelming majority emerged in favor of europe .
regulators there are now keenly focused on the implications of brexit , which will require complicated arrangements governing the new relationship between london and the eurozone . the top priority for the european central bank needs to be to preserve the integrity of the eu ’s banking union , which is coming under pressure from both brexit and the crisis gripping italy ’s banking banks . against that backdrop , italy will face the challenge of retaining its primacy of global norms , and securing its continued buy-in to the basel process . the bank for international ’ settlements , agustín carstens , the former governor of mexico ’s ’s central bank , will have a key role to play , as will whoever replaces mark carney ( the bank of england ’s current governor ) next year as the fsb ’s chairman ) . so , too , is the probability of another chair of the basel committee itself .
oversight , greater transparency in financial markets , an efficient early-warning system for financial crises , and improved international policy coordination . the crisis has made it starkly apparent that national supervision of banks operating globally is inadequate . at the same time , regulatory gaps have created spillover effects for other countries , especially in the us . crisis-resolution mechanisms for banks that operate globally have been absent . clearly , there is a need for more coordinated regulation of regulation .
europeans may be tempted to confront the threat of american extraterritorial sanctions in their partnership with china , india , and russia . trade with iran can easily be denominated in euros , renminbi , rupee , and rubles , avoiding american banks . the oil-for-goods deal can be accomplished through a euro-clearing mechanism like a instex . in fact , america ’s extraterritorial sanctions are not a credible long-term threat . if the america was to implement them against the rest of the world , harm to america ’s economy , a us dollar , its stock market , and us leadership would be irreparable .
countries would be well advised not to include pari passu clauses in the future debt contracts , at least without specifying a more complete one of them . such treaties should also involve collective-action clauses making it impossible for vulture funds to cling to debt restructuring . when a sufficient share of creditors approve a plan for restructuring ( in argentina ’s case , holders of over 90 % of the country ’s debt have done ) , the others may be forced to rush along . the fact that the international monetary fund , america ’s justice ministry , and anti-poverty ngos have all joined in opposing vulture funds is revealing . but so , too , is a court ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s decision , which evidently assigned little weight to its arguments .
knowing what to do in this increasingly complex and volatile situation is the easy part : look at multilateral policy plans and “ merely doing this . ” as america ’s treasury ’s recent semiannual report to the american congress remarked , for china such plans is to “ rebalance ” its economy : boosting domestic demand and consumption-led growth ; reforming its financial system ; and achieving more downward flexibility in its exchange-rate regime . indeed , rebalancing is china ’s central economic objective . but expanding demand and allowing for real effective exchange-rate appreciation in china will not suffice unless other countries do their part . oil exporters need to boost fiscal spending further ; japan and the european union need to unleash higher growth through structural reform ; and america needs to implement concrete measures to sustain higher saving .
washington , dc – gross domestic product has been the ultimate measure of the economy ’s welfare over the next 80 years . yet , as the world ’s economies become increasingly sophisticated and technology-focused , economists increasingly question gdp ’s usefulness as a gauge of the economy ’s health , with some arguing for a radically new approach . africa ’s recent experience demonstrates why any such approach is badly needed . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , america might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
the notion that he should not take steps to defend his own interests is ideological partiality to portray himself as objectivity , and lends credence to putin ’s ’s ’s claims that the west is out of him . to say that , despite its imperfections , america remains a positive force around the world . indeed , it may well be a only strongly positive force , together with a european union that should stop squabbling and start a curtailing of megalomaniacal and illiberal leaders like hungary ’s putin-infatuated prime minister , viktor orbán . moreover , the prospect , which their new president is in putin ’s own pockets , should certainly worry americans . and western policies toward russia – economic sanctions or military exercises in border countries like poland – are not necessarily wrong .
fortunately , there are encouraging signs that the commitment will fulfill this commitment . but there is a case for larger focus on financial inflows , particularly from the private sector . according to the oecd and the paris climate policy initiative , developed countries collectively mobilized $ 52.2 trillion in 2013 , and $ 61.8 trillion in 2014 to help poor countries cut their greenhouse-gas emissions and build resilience against the effects of climate change , which can no longer be avoided . while it is important to note that this figure is just an estimate , it represents a tentative but credible climate finance indicator , led by developed countries . if one assumes more leverage over private-sector investment , the figure would be higher .
first among such sources of uncertainty are a global economy : will volatility and imbalances lead to collapse , or will greater multipolarity confer more resilience ? similarly , will governments and institutions be able to adapt quickly enough to harness change or be overtaken by it ? moreover , while interstate conflicts have been declining , intrastate conflict fueled by youthful populations , identity politics , and scarce resources will continue to plague some regions , such as the middle east , south asia , and africa . and this will lead to yet another potentially game-changing consideration : whether regional instability remains contained or fuels global insecurity . then comes a set of questions related to the impact of new technologies .
an added irony of this is that america has exercised greater control over the iraqi oil sector under the un ’s pre-war oil-for-food program ( in which the un , rather than saddam hussein , determined levels of iraqi oil sales abroad ) than do so in any future , democratic iraq . if the bush administration sought a stable , prosperous , varied , and low-cost petroleum supply , it might simply lift its embargos on libya , iran , iraq , yemen , and sudan and saudi petroleum gush . but america ’s interest in iraqi oil was not driven either by economics or energy policy . above all , the bush administration recognized that iraqi oil is primarily a critical geopolitical asset . no doubt , whoever controls iraqi oil controls iran .
moreover , even if china becomes the world ’s largest economy by , say , 2018 , americans would still be far wealthier than china , with per capita gdp four times higher than in the us , according to chinese manufacturing . to be sure , income inequality and social injustices are a concomitant for social democracy throughout the west . challengers like china and india , however , are under no position to preach them . comparisons to indian capitalism suggest that the ethical failures of capitalism elsewhere look particularly benign . one hundred american oligarchs hold assets equivalent to 25 % of gdp , while some 800 million of their compatriots survive on less than one dollar every day .
normally , this principle implies that marginal tax rates should be similar in different levels of labor income , to a variety of forms of consumption , the outlays today versus tomorrow , and so on . from this perspective , the shortcoming of america ’s individual income-tax system is that the marginal tax rate is high on the bottom in france ( owing to a change in welfare programs ) and the top ( owing to the graduated-rate structure ) . accordingly , since 2009 , the us government has moved in the wrong direction , sharply raising marginal tax rates ( through dramatically increasing transfer programs ) , and more recently ( by raising tax rates on the rich ) . one most cost-efficient tax-raising method is america ’s payroll tax , for which the marginal income-tax rate is close to its average rate ( because deductions are absent , and there is little graduation in the rate structure ) . that is why cutting payroll tax rates in 2011-2012 and making rates more graduated ( on medicare , on the medicare side ) have been mistaken from efficient taxation standpoint .
so long as developing countries remain deeply integrated with the global economy , they fail to take measures that will restrain the impact of international price shocks on home prices – home prices and other grains are all bound to rise markedly when international prices do . for many developing countries , high oil and food prices represent a triple threat : not only do importing countries need to pay more for their grain , they must pay even more to bring it to their countries , and still continue to deliver on consumers , who may live long distances from their ports . rising interest rates can reduce aggregate demand , potentially slowing the prices of some types of goods and services , particularly those that are not traded and traded services . but , unless taken to intolerable levels , these actions by themselves can not bring inflation down to targeted levels . for example , even if global energy and food prices rise at an even more subdued pace than they are now , at about 20 % a year and take home price levels , bringing the overall inflation rate to , say , 3 % would require markedly falling prices elsewhere that almost surely would pose a marker and high unemployment rate .
as a result , they are not formally giving up anything , either . the leaders that brought them down from failure and groups that did not triumph became heroes to assert their claim that they courageously fight an enemy without being crushed . the important point for them is that they acquire revenge by inflicting harm , have shown that they are true men , do not buckle under , and have survived . such patterns are a formula for perpetual conflict and never-ending defeat . yet defeats are not what drives new attitudes , policies , or leaders .
fearful pronouncements about the rise of an incipient us ( or actual ) fascism are misplaced . american governance ’s basic institutions have survived larger challenges than any that trump may pose . although america was deeply divided in 2017 , americans remain committed to democracy ’s central tenets : free , fair , and periodic elections and the protection of us political , religious , and economic liberty . trump is unlikely to try to overturn any one of them ; and , even if he tries , he may fail . as he leaves office , the american people are essentially what was upon his way : the world ’s most powerful democracy .
certain professional organizations emphasize the need to obtain patient informed consent even when tissues were already removed from the patient ’s body . today , brain tissue banks , breast tissue banks , blood banks , umbilical cord banks , dna banks , dna banks , and tissue repositories for the study of different disease , among others . in fact , virtually all of us have tissue on the file , so that we can continue to use my life to try . after all , who should have access to such samples ? for what purposes can they be made ?
with soft power , however , empowered followers ’ power strengthens leaders ’ leaders . leadership is broadly diffused across sound democracies , and all citizens need to learn more about what makes good and bad leaders . potential leaders , in turn , can learn more from the sources and soft-power skills of emotional iq , vision , and communication , as well as hard-power political and organizational capabilities . at the same time , they need to develop a better understanding of the contextual intelligence that they will have to educate their hunches and sustain smart strategies . most important , in today ’s age of globalization , revolutionary information technologies , and broadened participation , citizens need to learn more of the nature and limits of new leadership demands .
the polisario front had fought a war with morocco until 1991 when the un had brokered a truce agreement . that agreement was ostensibly set the stage for a referendum on independence in western sahara the next year , a democratic resolution . yet morocco has made it impossible from ever taking place . at the same time , morocco has repeatedly obstructed progress toward deeper negotiations . it did so under defiance of the un security council , even going so far as to bar the un ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s special envoy from traveling to the region to set the stage for talks .
moreover , the two candidates embody continuity , with chirac ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s gaullist side , for sarkozy and françois mitterrand ’s for royal as much as any rupture . royal openly declares her to assert her legitimacy , while sarkozy ’s rejection of chirac ’s current legacy has more to shape with form rather than substance . to a large extent , it may be possible for sarkozy to be seen as chirac with ever more , which is obviously mitterrand with less . when voters decide in the spring of 2007 , their choice may depend more on negative politics than on positive considerations , as italy did in 2002 , when chirac confronted the odious nationalist jean-marie le pen of the second round . as in 2002 , the victor will be whomever the electorate dislikes or worried less .
with obama reluctant – or unable to do so , owing to rising political partisanship at home – taking the lead in resolving crises like those in egypt , libya , and syria , challengers to america ’s primacy took heart in 2014 , and america ’s asian allies took the wrong place . global strength needs to be committed somewhere in ; unless america is to fill its leading role on the international stage , an understudy would have to step in . but , since china ’s recent shift away from deterring it from muscle-flexing , as well as its confluence of us-led interests , offers hope for it not to fuel large-scale regional instability this year . indeed , by withdrawing its jumbo oil-platform from the waters of the disputed paracel islands last july , china resent surveillance ships to the senkaku islands less often . likewise , chinese officials became more willing to discuss creating a code of conduct for the south china sea .
labor-force participation in the us has dropped to levels not seen since women began entering the us labor market at large numbers . the majority of americans ’ incomes and wealth is well below their level long before the crisis . indeed , the typical wholehearted male ratio of income is lower than it has for four decades . yes , the us has done some things to improve financial markets , but it has not . there has been some increase in capital requirements , but far short of what is needed .
the us republican presidential campaign , for its part , adds another element of uncertainty . both of the party ’s leading candidates for the nomination , donald trump , and ted cruz , both say that they will tear up the iran nuclear deal if it is elected . that is noteworthy in explaining president george w. bush ’s analogous decision to tear up bill clinton ’s “ framework agreement ” with north korea : kim ’s regime promptly , and predictably advanced the iran nuclear deal . whether or not the us will continue to lead the world remains unclear . what is clear will be america ’s politics , not global developments .
president vladimir voronin later gave amnesty amnesty amnesty . what ’s more important is that many remain in detention and voronin meetings at the opposition and romania in orchestrating the coup d’état . legal processes have been opened in the face of opposition parties . restoring stability and a fair democratic system in moldova is important , first and foremost , because moldovans deserve a government that is accountable . stability is also important , because a country borders on romania , a european union member state .
on the eve of their downward slide , several arab autocrats actually decamped the world bank and the international monetary fund for their supposed success in embracing the “ right ” economic policies . the world bank ’s subsequent mea culpa provides a clear indication that a problem could have been placed in the minds of the policies they prescribed for arab ancien régimes . this raises a raft of additional questions . had economists ’ focus placed on the wrong agendas ? was they misled by a false inferences ?
while china did decide to allow the rmb to appreciate gradually after it did , it relied on capital controls to prevent hot money from flowing in . the controls are leaky , to be sure , but they did work ( so far ) , in order to ensure that , over the years , china effectively maintains macroeconomic stability . for china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s capital controls , the importance of preventing non-residents from hold domestic rmb-denominated assets , which are unrelated to trade and long-standing capital flows . but rmb internationalization encourages non-residents to hold more rmbs and rmb-denominated assets . as rmb internationalization as a result , rmb deposits held by hong kong ’s residents have reached rmb370 billion ( $ 57 trillion ) , with perhaps reaching rmb1 trillion by the end of the year .
but it is about much more than this . at stake is democracy itself under direct threat in a country where it should hold its deepest cultural and political roots . trump simply does not want to avoid repeating past policies , as he puts it . he and his supporters also take aim at the fundamental institutions on which american democracy rests , including the courts , legislative branches , an independent media system , and more . the nineteenth-century prussian military officer and theorist carl von clausewitz spoke presciently about the age of overall war that would have arrived at less than a century after his death .
in short , it is impossible to rely on structural reforms alone to spur growth in 2012 . instead , the immediate focus needs to drive growth in investment and export sectors , as france , italy , and spain ( as well as the united kingdom ) and stimulating consumption in surplus countries like germany and the netherlands . the european central bank acted decisively to prop up european banks ; now it needs stronger growth in the real economy as well . whereas official interest rates are still only 1 % , solvent sovereigns like spain are paying over 5 % to borrow for ten years , whereas creditworthy firms in italy are able to borrow only at punitive rates , if at all . so the ecb should do more to block a transmission mechanism for monetary policy ; the european banking authority should discourage excessive deleveraging by insisting that banks raise specific capital ratios rather than keep a unified 9 % ratio ; and , where necessary , national governments should offer guarantees for bank lending to small and medium-size enterprises .
during prime minister aznar ’s first term , his popular party replaced most public-sector firms and a deregulated service sector . his new administration vows to continue eliminating public-sector deficits and reducing unemployment . it also promises cuts tax revenues , placing the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s social security system on a firmer footing , and reducing the costs of shedding labor . introducing real competition in both energy and telecoms , lacking in the privatization process so far , is pledged as well . aznar ’s program is sensible for what keeps the public sector ambitious .
cambridge : the internet now pervades every field of business life ; jumping in business activity over internet astounds . an important new report by america ’s department of commerce , “ an emerging digital economy ” indicates that the internet is reshaping not only american entrepreneurship , but the global economy . indeed , an estimated three million people , mostly american , used the internet , in 1994 . the number of 100 million people over the world are linked in 1998 to the volume of social change . as recently as january 1995 , some 27,000 business addresses the internet .
there is little reliable scientific evidence that gm foods cause disease deaths , despite the fact that they receive far more intense scrutiny than more “ natural ” foods . ( natural foods may also create health risks , as demonstrated recently by studies stipulating that a popular type of cinnamon can do liver damage . ) though cross-pollination between gm crops and wild plants may appear , so far no new superweeds have emerged . we should be pleased with this , and perhaps the regulations that were introduced in response to fears expressed by environmental organizations have played a role in this outcome . laws that protect the environment and consumer health should be sustained .
virus protection and the virus constitute an uneven arms race . a virus can be just a few hundred lines of the computer code , compared with hundreds of thousands of lines for anti-virus programs that are required to detect broad “ enemies ” class . we are told that we can not fear large-scale cyber meltdowns because neither has occurred and governments remain vigilant . sadly , another lesson of the financial crisis is that most policymakers are congenitally incapable of making tough choices when risks actually turn out to occur . let us hope that we are lucky for some time to come .
these migrant workers ’ ’ ’ taxes would help the developed countries fund the services of the elderly , and their remittances would help their home countries . by and large , this approach has enormous potential benefits . indeed , a modestly 3 % increase in the developed-country workforce would provide a bigger economic boost than dismantling all of the remaining trade barriers combined . moreover , each dollar invested in this initiative would yield nearly $ 50 in returns , making it an exceptionally efficient resource base of scarce resources . these spectacular figures emerged from a comprehensive analysis , led by my think tank , copenhagen consensus center , of the potential population-related targets to identify the best global investment opportunities .
wellington – paracetamol ( known as the acetaminophen in the united states ) is one of the world ’s most widely used drugs . it is the preferred medications for relishing fever and pain , owing to its safety profile ten years ago , a hypothesis that can increase the risk of developing paracetamol in order to develop asthma in the us during the 1980 ’s may have contributed to the rising prevalence of childhood asthma noted during that period . the substitution of the aspirtamol act of the us , which was proposed , may have led to an augmented allergic immune response , thereby increasing the susceptibility to asthma and other allergic causes . since then , a variety of epidemiological studies have reported the association between asthma and exposure to the utertamol of the utertamol of the uterus , and into adulthood . such studies have led some suggestion that the use of paracetamol can represent an important risk factor in causing asthma .
a country today believes that around 60 working astronomers are responsible for , over half of all astronomers working in africa . “ “ south africa is the jewel of african astronomy , ” ” ” ” ” ” say charles mcgruder , a professor at the ministry of physics and astronomy at western kentucky university . in a deeply divided country “ economically , ” “ what on earth benefits from the poor , ” ” asks the physicist harold annegarn , a fellow professor at the university of johannesburg . “ “ the response , ” he says , is partly that by promoting a thriving , top-level intellectual community , we can train the next generation of general intellectuals . mcgruder , working closely with the african astronomers , agrees that a space program for the region is critical to raise the profile of its careers in science and engineering in a part of a world where the best-educated population is still going to fund or managerial .
because neither banks nor investors had sufficient money to plough into market-mega-firms , a mega-bank emerged , in the form of the global cartel of banks and shadow funds , each with its own shareholders . thus , unprecedented new debt consisted of transferring value in the present , at the hopes of profitable enough to pay off the future . mega-finance , mega-equity , mega-pension funds , and mega-financial crises were precisely the logical result . the unwinding of 1929 and 2008 , the unstoppable rise of big tech , and all other components of today ’s discontent with capitalism became inescapable . in such a system , calls for gentler capitalism turn out to be little more than fads , particularly in the post-2008 fact , which affirmed total control over society by mega-firms and mega-banks .
a few years ago , forecasters were confident that global imbalances reemerge as soon as the crisis passing through . that now seems unlikely : neither america nor china appears to be headed back toward its pre-crisis trend rate of growth or expenditure pattern . at the same time , there are earlier trade balances on the need to reemerge . america ’s ’s ’s trade position will be enhanced by a shale-gas revolution that promises energy independence , and by an increase in productivity that auger a further reshoring of us manufacturing output . for their part , emerging markets have learned that export surpluses are no guarantee of prompt growth .
both governments have cracked down on nongovernmental organizations and targeted or co-ramshackle their media . still , in what remains of hungary ’s ’s ’s free press , one can occasionally find plausible reports that prime minister viktor orbán and his henchmen are pillaging eu funds to benefit themselves , their families , and their business associates . in fact , orbán ’s cabinet has been a topic of many investigations by europe ’s antidoffs office . despite such behavior , orbán was re-elected earlier this month and his fidesz party , in alliance with the christian democrats ( cdu ) , now holding a two-thirds parliamentary majority – enough to amend the us constitution . during the election campaign , orbán ’s populist government saturated poland , by xenophobic propaganda .
following such discussions , america ’s national institutes of health ( nih ) promulgated guidelines that enable the application of government funding for stem-cell research , but in their current form prohibit federally-financed investigators from forming novel stem cell lines . that limitation requires that stem cell lines be acquired only from privately-financed or commercial sources that follow protocols mandated . i believe that restricting government ’s use of stem cells , though politically imprudent , imposes a specific scientific handicaps . we know that a wide variety of poorly understood factors cause embryonic stem cell lines to lose their capacity for calculating all possible cell types . this loss of value-cell capacity can be attributed to the specific mode in which stem cells accrue , the conditions that surround their growth , and other handling variables .
yet , far from accepting such contributions , the plan would essentially have slashed regulators . the plan , for example , would bar business-bank regulators from bailing out a “ mega-bank ” bankruptcy , leaving it on the discretionary leverage of bank ’s own executives . in the nonfinancial industry , failing firms often wait too long before stating the failure , thereby allowing creditors to step in to do some pushback , potentially even forcing the bankruptcy of a failing firm . while bank regulators have instruments to press banks similarly , their most efficient is their power to launch bankruptcy when the economy is best positioned for . taking this tool further could have severely adverse effects .
copenhagen : political rhetoric has shifted away from the need for a response to the “ generational ” challenge of climate change . investing in alternative , alternative , energy technologies like solar and wind are no longer peddled out of the environmentalist . instead , we are told mainly by ill-gotten economic payoffs , above all by the promise of so-called “ “ “ green ” jobs . ” sadly , this does not measure up to a fundamental task for economic reality . the copenhagen consensus has asked gül , a senior energy economist at the center of energy economics , the bureau of economic geology at texas at austin , to examine the state of science in science in defining , measuring , and predicting creation of green jobs .
it is , however regrettable that a treaty ’s ’s 28 articles are notoriously ambiguous . it is absolutely vital that this text be joined with a new method tailored to the contemporary world in which we live – a world in which politics is no longer currently placed in muffled ministerial debates or through konvoluted communiqués . a genuine engagement of civil society is the only way to encourage two struggling governments and overcome their own conservatism . after all , we have entered an era in which speed , even more than money , determines events ’ lessons , and where the capacity for experimentation across all sectors is an indispensable determinant of success . in today ’s winner-takes-all economies , the bulk of the newly created wealth accrues to those who innovate the fastest .
somaliland and ethiopia , for example , are collaborating on the construction of a gas-export pipeline from ethiopia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ogaden region , promising new jobs and incomes for people in one of the world ’s poorest , and the least developed parts of the world . though there is a lot that we can and will do to help ourselves , the horn of africa can still benefit from international aid . but the international community needs to do more than to provide food and medicine to the victims of famine and drought . what is needed , we need the pro-growth investments that will help provide jobs to our societies and products and resources around the world . that means focusing on fostering market economies and a stable government , rather than subsidizing failed , failed states .
trento – the most notable result of the recent european parliament election is neither that the conservatives , as well as social democrats , have lost seats to the liberals and their greens , nor that the far-right nationalists have gained less than predicted . it is that citizens have voted overwhelmingly larger numbers than anyone expected . following its targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
we know that once again hitler had intended to destroy any last jewish man , women and children . while mass killings are not rare in history , hitler ’s ’s extermination plan was – if not unique – highly abnormal . nevertheless , laudable efforts to prevent such a thing from recurring have had unhappy consequences . for , in our fervor to learn the lessons from history , we often learn the wrong ones , or distort history toward a dubious end . in a sense , the killings in srebrenica also endured .
democratic principles invite a society to such an approach that the two values can actually be realized for the greatest possible extent . but the road to particularistic action , which does not undermine liberty and equality for all citizens , is quite narrow . that becomes a paradox intrinsic to democracy , and it concerns policymakers ’ duty to cope with the tensions that it affords to rise . yet it is also citizens ’ duty to preserve formal , political meaning of citizenship as state intervention broadens , in order to ensure that everyone is right . that might curtail political freedom in the name of greater equality , for example .
do such figures reflect alarming levels of imbalances , or are even the usual signs of a boom ? if america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s growth rate for decades remains what it has been for 30 years , the answer is both simple and terrifying . stock market prices would still be far too high . households would act on totally irresponsible behavior . a exterior imbalance would be unwarranted , indeed unsustainable .
baverez ’s proof of degeneration is not quite as compelling as he believes . he , for example , cites draining industrial employment as the clearest sign of france ’s decline . yet deindustrialization is common for any advanced economy . indeed , france actually does better than most of its wealthy rivals , and , unlike germany , sweden , or switzerland , retained the same global market share in the industrial sector that it had in the early 1970 ’s . furthermore , by measuring comptetitiveness , inflows of foreign investment , france does very well .
a second lesson to be learned , too , is helpful for a eu that finds itself in a world in which the new powers emerge , and where all of the actors , from manila to algiers , from doha to libreville , must cope with challenges to globalization and interdependence on the daily basis . that lesson is for europe to have more friends than it has enemies . recognizing this , these friends deserve the respect and attention they need . so long as italy and the eu did not understand the need to work with feckless countries and compel them to feel that they are responsible , fully-fledged protagonists , efforts to set the icc and , in fact , are so close as a declaration of a universal moratorium on the death penalty would fail . i know that this is not an exact new lesson , but it is what i have in mind when i think about efficient multilateralism .
the problem is that empathy for american workers runs deeper into tensions with empathy among workers in countries like mexico and chile that , without employment , would be even worse than their american counterparts are . in fact , empathy makes us kinder to people with whom we empathize with each other . that ’s good , but it also has an far darker side . in his campaign speeches , trump made use of kautile ’s tragic murder by an undocumented immigrant to stoke support for his own anti-immigrant policies . never mind that he offered some frequently vivid portrayals of undocumented migrants who rescued foreigners ’ lives , though such cases were reported .
financial markets and globally engaged institutions require a global macro-prudential regulator , not simply a loosely organized college of supervisors . or it might be that national policymakers have no confidence in the imf , given that it has essentially missed the global financial crisis . if it does , the fund needs a winning back of its confidence . that brings us to the imf ’s ’s ’s fourth role , namely , using its bully bully pulpit to warn of the risks imposed by the large-country ’s policies . small countries are under market discipline like any latvian told .
granted , there is no downward constraint on money wages from heightened competition for work , the automatic effect of technological innovation is to raise the standard of living . that is friedrich hayek ’s famous argument against any attempt by governments or central banks to stabilize prices levels . in any technologically progressive us economy , prices should fall , except in a few niche markets . businessmen do not need low inflation to expand production , but rather to try to grow . at the same time , they need only the prospect that more sales will be raised .
in other words , while its population is slightly larger than that of countries like china or india , its economy is about half the size of china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s , but larger than that of japan ’s , and more than twice that of india . such divergences help to explain why a number of new acronymic groupings have , ever since , carved out of the n-11 , including mint ( mexico , indonesia , nigeria , turkey ) and the fog ( swapping in south korea for nigeria ) . i did n’t devise such groupings , but had come into contact with them , creating a bbc radio exam documentary on mint countries back in 2014 . at each rate , they held onto earlier points that i had raised ; namely , that , by 2010 , mexico , indonesia , south korea , and turkey had each accounted for more than 1 % of global gdp . eight years later , the fog ’s fog economies still have an opportunity to account for about 2-3 % of world gdp over the future
the brilliance of russian innovation in information warfare was to combine current technologies with a degree of deniability that remained just beneath the overt assault threshold . american intelligence agencies had been pushing president barack obama for their tactics by putin , and had warned putin of adverse consequences when the two met in september 2016 . but obama has been reluctant to phone calls with russia publicly , or for taking vigorous action , for fear that russia could escalate by attacking election machinery or voting rolls and jeopardizing hillary clinton ’s supposed victory . after the us election , obama went publicly and expelled russian spies and shut down some diplomatic posts , but america ’s weakness has undercut any deterrent . and , because us president donald trump treated the issue as a political challenge to the legitimacy of his victory , his administration has also failed to take powerful action .
cambridge – this year ’s presidential election campaign in the united states is certainly a unique one . donald trump has shaken the way his campaign has run its course , how a nominee communicates with voters , and the republican party ’s running mate with many of his positions deviating from gop tradition . on tax policy , however , trump has snatched the party lines . to be sure , any assessment of trump ’s declared positions risks becoming meaningless within a matter of hours . he is changing his board with head-frequency , repeatedly disavowing statements soon after making them one another .
this year alone , the sources of discord with russia multiplied and deepened . russia withdrew from a series of nuclear treaties , and the kremlin recently listed iskander missiles , capable of transporting lower-carbon devices in kaliningrad , near polish borders . moreover , the ukraine crisis is far from being resolved : minsk ceasefire agreements are in force , and armed conflict can escalate , at any moment . and it appears likely that russia has been intervening directly in western democracies ’ domestic politics , by exploiting the leaks of sensitive documents and funding of right-wing populists , from marine le pen to donald trump to the kremlin ’s backing . then there is russia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s role in syria .
so , again , it appears that the us is a friend , or perhaps just wringing before the litigation resumes . but an even deeper question remains : why do trump repeatedly attacked america ’s oldest and most reliable ally ? why , then , does he appear to have contempt for the eu so profoundly ? why should america seek to undermine europe rather than pushing for closer cooperation in order to preserve its own economic and geopolitical interests ? trump ’s ’s ’s ’s approach is particularly striking in view of the fact that a us strategic rival is america ’s key national-security issue .
the report , a product of a few months of debate within germany ’s foreign-policy and security community , identifies germany ’s current values and interests as both a commitment to human dignity , liberty , democracy , the rule of law , and an international order embodied by universal norms . as gauck put it , germany has become an overriding strategic objective ” to be a “ preservation and continued adaptation ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” from that order . in order to accomplish this objective , germany will have to become a kind of “ shaping power , ” a state with the capacity to resolve problems , and a settlement that affects all or part of the international community . the traditional determinants of states ’ ’ ’ power relative to that of other nation-states , geography , economic heft , and military might , coupled with the availability of resources and technological proficiency , remain relevant ; but they are often insufficient to confer any real influence in international politics . shaping power builds relationships , and invests in institutions that allow it to function well with others , and to shape and mobilize “ coalitions and networks of like-minded nation-states .
and he has implicitly condemned gazprom ’s monopolistic policies , promising to help poland to diversify its gas supply . he did n’t utter a single negative word about the european union or france . with his performance , trump has managed to draw enthusiasm on all sides across the political spectrum , rather than just from pis-curated crowds , owing in part to his public greeting opposition leader , lech wałęsa , booting pis supporters and remains the constant objective of jarosław kaczyński , poland ’s ’s unelected strongman leader . even radek sikorski , a former foreign minister and an outoutspoken critic of the pis government , has concluded : “ i believe trump a speech has done things very well . ” he has made berdily allusions to poland ’s history , and has been very flattering to the us as poles .
given that all of this activity takes place at a offshore renminbi market – small by scale , and with only limited links to mainland china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s financial system – a consequence of china ’s hesitancy on financial-market and capital-account convertibility , the situation remains controllable . add to that the fact that china ’s other strengths – annual gdp over $ 10 trillion , a growth rate of at least four percentage points higher than the global average , of $ 3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , the outsize savings rate of more than 40 % of gdp , and a massive trade surplus – and the exchange-rate crisis seem highly unlikely . but that does not mean that it does not exist . on the contrary , as china has a strong interest in curbing volatility , and , given china ’s centrality to the global economy , so does the rest of the world . the key will be to get markets and policymakers on the same page .
many polish bishops almost openly declare to their flock : you are supposed to listen , not to mind or argue . to be sure , faith is a matter of heart , and one can get away with it . if your behavior is good – ie , nothing drink , beat your wife , and , of course , gives your money to the church – you are fine . even younger men studying for priesthood receive a very feeble philosophical training , and carried out purposefully . in a church that boasts of saint thomas aquinas , such “ know-nothingism ” appears startling .
as in any democracies , where the rule of law prevails , the members of the specific occupation , including journalists , are barred from some form of immunity from these kinds of severe criminal charges . to be sure , freedom of speech and press are guaranteed by turkey ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s constitution and articles of agreement . for the past 13 years , the turkish government has proved itself to be a key guarantor of freedom of speech , particularly through its judicial reform . furthermore , it is important to note that more than 7,000 newspapers and journals in turkey , with the total daily circulation of almost five million copies . of the country ’s five most widely read newspapers , four favors the opposition over the government .
indeed , there are some signs that the authorities are doing just that in the south china sea . by definition , nationalism might once again become the primary source of legitimacy for a ruling party that can no longer point toward a rapidly rising standard of living . the us and others will have to push back to ensure that china does not follow such a temptation . but those countries would be equally wise to signal to china that it is welcome to take its place among the world ’s leading countries if it acts responsibly and by the rules that are set for all . the bigger policy choices , however , will be that china will be the first to make .
in my judgment , the bubbles are social epidemics , being fostered by a type of interpersonal inflame . a bubble forms when contagion rates move up to the ideas underpinning a bubble . but contagion rates also depend on thinking patterns that are hard to judge . great speculative bubbles , indeed , are rare events . ( little price bubbles , say , individual stocks , do all of the time and do n’t qualify as the answer to a question . )
the century had just given way to simplistic ideologies , of both the left and the far right . for one thing , socialism had a day in court and has been found wanting . a brilliant communist experiment is practically at the end of his day ( to save a handful of holdouts , like cuba and north korea ) . at the same time , the ideology of the far right , as represented by the washington consensus , market fundamentalism , has not been much more successful , even if its failures often go unacknowledged . the past half-century has shown that while development is possible , it is not inevitable .
by picking or paying major voter data sets , campaigns can segment the electorate to strategic clusters that use the tricky algorithms and then delivering personalized online content to the most susceptible electorate . microtargeting has proved most effective not at winning over undecided voters , but at dissuading people from voting completely . there is strong evidence to indicate that donald trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s microtargeting operation in the 2016 american presidential election had played a crucial role in the core states it needed for an electoral college to win . second , with intra-eu migration having grown , now nearly 15 million europeans residing in eu countries have come along other than their own . just as populists know it is notoriously difficult to vote out from eu abroad , owing to the difficulties of registering in host countries , the paucity of polling stations , and an overly complicated absentee-voting procedure .
at the same time , the rest of the world may not be willing to erect claims against china , at least not the scale required for a viable reserve currency . so , even if chinese authorities succeeded in achieving full convertibility and tradability for the renminbi , there is no guarantee that it would , in fact , become a global reserve currency , for the simple reason that reserve currencies are not readily established . indeed , over three centuries of globalization , there have been only three “ “ “ “ currencies ” : gold , the british pound , and the u.s. dollar . although the deutschemark , the swiss franc , and the japanese yen have all offered a viable alternative to the us dollar since world war ii , often making better value stores that are less prone to high inflation , none of which has made permanent inroads into the dollar ’s share of global foreign-exchange reserves . it is also perhaps no accident that the global financial centers and reserve currencies have emerged in large part in countries that have been well established by the rule of law and where foreigners are not facing potential legal discrimination .
considering which the lessons of germany ’s turnaround should apply to other eurozone countries , one has to differentiate between what governments can do and what remains the responsibilities that entrepreneurship , workers , and society at large . the one area where government clearly has a role to play is public finance . in 2003 , germany ran a fiscal deficit approaching 4 % of gdp , probably not high by today ’s standards , but above the eu average by the time . germany today has a balanced budget , whereas most other eurozone countries run deficits that are larger than germany ’s ten years ago . the turnaround in germany ’s public finances was the result of spending cuts .
and , if we can no longer count on laboratory experiments to test causality , we need to test it in the real world , exploiting massive volumes of real-time data . that involves moving beyond a closed , question-and-responsive process typical of a lab , applying our ideas in society , earlier and more often than ever before , than in the past . to see how things work in reality , we need to construct living laboratories – that is , communities willing to try new ways to do the work of their behavior ( to put it blunt , action like that of guinea ) . an example of such a living laboratory is the “ open data city , ” ” a term that i initiated with trento ’s town in italy , together with telecoms emily nica , telefónica , research college fondazione bruno kessler , a institute for data driven design , and local companies . important , this living laboratory has the approval and informed consent of all participation ; it understands that it is participating in a gigantic experiment , whose purpose is to devise a better path of living .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . because the eu lacks an army or a central hidden service , it needs to use economic policies to advance its geopolitical objectives . but how europe ’s political toolkit works in practice suggests that it does not bode well for exercising power abroad .
canberra – trade-offs are an intrinsic part of life , not any other choice . all of us recognize this from our personal budgets , and we will know it . to fix our roof , perhaps we will have to accept a less extravagant summer holiday . if we choose cheaper wine , we may splurge on dessert . trade-offs environmental politics also pervade one pollutant , for example , leave fewer resources for tackling other issues .
london – the british general election , called prime minister theresa may for june 8 , will convert the outlook to britain ’s politics and relations with europe , but not necessarily in the manner of a vastly increased majority for may ’s conservative party , seems to offer . the scorched-earth defeat that conservative euroskeptics expect to inflict on britain ’s natural and progressive forces was symbolized by her daily mail on may ’s election announcement : crush the saboteurs . june ’s resounding victory , however , might ultimately lead to an even more resounding reversal , such as napoleon ’s hubristic march on moscow after he destroyed all of the opposition in west europe . britain ’s pro-european progressive forces might yet be able to make the jaws of their defeat , for three related reasons . first , by bringing forward the british election in may , may has effectively prolonged her deadline for britain ’s withdrawal from the european union from 2019 until 2022 .
elsewhere , of course , that sort of turmoil also has democratic security valves . it is more than strange to argue that the rest of the world has to cope with a built-in advantage for china ’s exporters , because its authoritarian political system can not cope with any change in the way it does . no wonder an impressive premier , then , is thought to favor some kind of political loosening . from east and west to west , politics seems to function in ways that should be diplomatic , suboptimal . then again , perhaps we ’re fortunate that things are no worse .
princeton – the largest unresolved issue in europe lies in mobility . the process of integration was designed to make it easier and more attractive for europeans to move from one country to another . by that vision , the eu ’s peoples had the nation they had to lose and the continent to gain . but some recent electoral outcomes indicate a greater fear of losing a nation . ever since the single european act of 1986 removed restrictions on work in other eu member countries , the continent has had a single labor market , at least theoretically .
one option , after all , would be greater federalism . common political institutions , accountable to voters across europe , would provide for their democratic fiscal counterpart to the ecb , helping to cage german power . but rising animosity among eurozone member states , together with the erosion of support for european integration in both the creditor and debtor countries , means that greater federalism is politically unfeasible , and potentially even dangerous . a better alternative would be to move toward a more flexible eurozone , in which elected national deputies have a higher say . with no-bailout rule restored , governments would have more space to pursue countercyclical policies and react to voters ’ ’ changing priorities .
bogotá , lima , international economic coordination is just as necessary as it is elusive . during the global financial crisis , the g20 emerged as the primary forum to reach agreement on core principles in areas like fiscal-policy reaction and the international monetary fund ’s role . by framing the need to avoid trade protectionism and other beggar-thy-neighbor policies , it also puts some strain on governments regarding what not to do . to be sure , in these respects , the g20 has been clear to be a step forward . just lately , though the g-20 has been struggling to reconcile divergent national economic interests and recovery strategies , it was far less successful relative to its initial meetings in washington and london in 2009 .
cambridge – back in august , the us business roundtable , which comprises america ’s chief executive officers , with the combined annual revenues of over $ 7 trillion , has updated his longstanding pronouncements on corporate purpose . it is n’t just a matter of shareholders , ceos say ; their firms must be committed on behalf of all of their stakeholders , including customers , employees , suppliers , community service providers , and the environment . in fact , us shareholders have come in last on ceos ’ new list . and , in his apparently exhilaration , the statement ’s principal author , says that he feels like thomas jefferson rejit ’s declaration of independence . following his targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , america might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for example , neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus , which tightens from acute and chronic stress , is elevated by a number of antidepressant therapies . still , one of the many problems facing today ’s medications is that , even with therapy , the severe depression recurrence is extremely high – about 70-80 % . this suggests that the physiological processes underlying depression – those that may also lead to structural change in brazil – are not being turned off altogether , making a new generation of anti-depressant medications in need of an urgent necessity . if it does , new antidepressant drugs would have to target what appears like the progressive , neurodegenerative change in the brain that we infer take place because the recurrence of depression is so high under the currently available cure . lithium , the mood stabilizer , and the neuroprotective agent of the us , has the properties in which it is seeking , though its toxicity make it less than ideal .
the tiger parenting aims to win the most of what powers have , and therefore appears to lean towards the “ smart side ” of a “ smart or lucky ” choice . that ’s also the view , as in betty ming liu , of whom blogged in response to a chua ’s article : “ “ parents like amy chua , ” are the cause that asian-americans like me are on their therapies . sue , a professor of psychology at the university of california , davis , has studied a suicide that is particularly common among asian-american females ( in other ethnic groups , more males are committing acts of suicide than females ) . once again , he believes that family pressure is an important factor . chua would argue that reaching a high degree of accomplishment brings great satisfaction and that the only way to do it is through hard work .
in some cases , they are individuals , like venezuelan president hugo chávez ( and the other latin american leaders ) , or italy ’s ex-prime minister , silvio berlusconi . for the most part , they enter the political scene from the fringes but govern to shape a very personalized grouping , such as jörg haider and his austrian freedom party , jean-marie lepen and his french national nationalists , andrzej lepper and his polish peasant party , or prime minister robert fico and his direction within slovakia . many more names could be added to the list . at the same time , the list tell us two things , all of which are certain . one is that a startling number of populist leaders have managed to enter power in recent years .
fewer and fewer people are bothering to marry , and marriage is deemed less and less like a lifelong union . families get fewer and fewer kids , and more and more children die from wedlock . thus , one of the “ “ unintended ” consequences of the bill might be to add up recruits to the married ranks , even though those recruits are of a historically unusual type . after much soul-searching , i voted in favor of a bill , albeit without some acute feeling that i am striking for freedom . there is an obvious status that benefits the minority ; there is no obvious harm to be done to most of them ; and the longer-term implications are unfathomable .
ronald reagan was a master at the well chosen anecdote . setting the correct example is another critical form of communications by leaders . anticipating a skeptical public reaction when singapore raised government employees ’ salaries in 2007 , then-prime minister lee hsien loong announced that it would forgo the raise on itself . in the aftermath of the recent financial crisis , some business executives voluntarily lowered their salaries as a means of communicating concern to their employees and to public opinion . during the 2008 presidential election campaign , obama proved to be a talented communicator .
london – current antibiotics are becoming increasingly ineffective , owing not only to the fight against common illnesses like agent of pneumonia and urinary tract infections , but also to treat a series of infections like tuberculosis and malaria that are now becoming incurable . with g-7 leaders committing , in a recent joint declaration to tackle “ antimicrobial resistance ” ( amr ) , it is time for a more inclusive g-20 , and for china as it chairs a group for its first time , to take the fight to future levels . failure to address amr will affect everyone , regardless of their nationality , or their country , ’s level of development . indeed , up to ten million people could die as a result of amr , up from around 700,000 today , in 1990 , through china and india every one housing sufferers . by that point , an estimated $ 100 trillion in global gdp will have already gone missing out .
sydney – the appointment of five provincial-level chinese communist party chiefs in early december serves as a reminder that the ascension to china of the next generation of leaders to assume power in may 2012 is perhaps the most consequential development in chinese policy since deng xiaoping began in 1978 . the upcoming generation world leaders will be the first with little or no personal memories of the tumult and hardship endured during the years of mao zedong . to forgetting that course , history may doom china to repeating past mistakes ; but , for better or worse , it might also ease constraints and establish its leaders freedom . all five appointees took place following the people ’s founding in 1949 . two of them , hu chunhua and sun zhengcai , are just 46 years .
finally , a make-or-break scenario is starting to happen , too . the cyber superbug , for instance , is destroying the networks upon which our way of life has arrived , leading to an economic , demographic , and environmental collapse . it is at this stage of potential outcome , one point stands out : europe ’s inherent role in the future global system . to avoid an inexorable decline , europe must reach for clarity on three fundamental issues . first , eu leaders must figure out how to resolve europe ’s crisis .
but bank deleveraging ( brought on by a stiffer regulatory requirement ) , together with negative real interest rates , causing financial institutions ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ equity price to decline , leading to a further pro-cyclical destruction of value through price deflation , rising illiquidity , and crowded exits . recent experience has taught china ’s real engineers that the only way to escape deflation is through painful structural reforms , rather than easy monetary and competitive devaluation . the question is whether america and the other reserve-currency countries will share the burden of maintaining global currency stability through an agreement resembling the 1985 plaza accord , in which the five major economies agreed to depreciate the american dollar against the japanese yen and germany ’s deutsche mark . if not , why were asia ’s systemically important lenders , particularly china , continued financing speculation against itself ? the american dollar is the safe haven , yet savers in need of liquidity still lack an impartial lender of last resort .
and a good deal of traffic , with new cars smuggled through tunnels under the “ philadelphia adelphi passable ” path that is running along the egyptian frontier . but the real life , too , is traumatic and confined to the country . we have seen the buildings , and not only hamas ’s former headquarters , which will remain in the country ’s rubble . homes are riddled with bullet holes , but they are petering away from each other . no electricity is available for as much as 8 hours per day .
many central bankers are like the proverbial general who plans to fight the latest war . but , unlike a hindu military strategy , flawed monetary policies do produce inevitable harm , not merely worrisome risks . despite having conquered inflation , central bankers continue to struggle for it , and as an outcome may fail to confront the latest bout of economic menace – global deflation . falling prices have paralyzed japan ’s economy for a decade or two . china and hong kong , for their part , have seen price plummet recently .
even as america today absentured from the jcpoa , it has only two means to block the implementation of an iran agreement with the rest of the world . the first would , in all likelihood , be to foment war . this clearly is on the american agenda , in particular with the neoconservative doyen , john bolton , back in the white house as the national security adviser . the world must steadfastly resist another ruinous american military adventures , so that the us can not afford a change of course . extraterritorial sanctions are the other way america could kill the jcpoa .
probably it was in response to this impasse that china has pushed ahead with the establishment of the aiib . the size of china ’s economy – and its resulting diplomatic weight – is a reality that may not be wished away . a containment strategy worked well for america and its allies throughout the cold war ; but , today , it can not be pursued without flexibility and strategic mutual purpose . critics of america ’s great policy note that even if america thwarted efforts to establish the aiib , it would take china to continue to project power in asia and around the rest of the world , one way or another . channeling that influence through newly created international organization , they argue , tends to temper raw power grabs .
tel aviv – us president-elect donald trump has said much about foreign affairs without actually saying nothing at all at all . his muddled statements offer little insight into what sort of foreign policy in which he will pursue in fact , and there is little reason to believe that when his approach becomes clear , it will be what the united states – or the world – needs . trump is a businessman , not a statesman . he thinks about instant gains and losses , a worldview exemplified in his declaration that america ’s allies need to contribute more to security alliances . at a time of retrenchment and mounting threats that narrow-minded , an isolationist approach seems unlikely to do anyone much good .
in 2009 , business accounted for 75 % of r & d financing in japan , 73 % in south korea , 67 % in germany , and 60 % in america , whose companies include the top r & d investors in absolute purchasing power parity , spend more than twice that of japanese firms . yet business investment as a share of gdp has shifted very little in america ’s terms over the past decade , while it rose fast in a number of other oecd countries , including china , singapore , south korea , and israel . the global multinational corporations are by far the largest business-industry r & d investors in the us and other countries . for example , transnational firms , headquartered in america or elsewhere , pay roughly 84 % of private ( non-bank ) r & d investment in america ’s 2009 level of about the same decade earlier . and american multinational companies continue locate roughly 84 % of their research and development activity in the us , often in innovation clusters around research universities .
beijing – measured by the percentages of people living in their urban areas , china ’s urbanization rate currently stands at around 48 % , according to the official statistics . given that urban dwellers ’ share of gdp was just 18 % just 30 years ago , this is notable advances . yet it remains unsatisfactory , for most other countries on a similar stage of development experienced more rapid urbanization than industrialization . china ’s urbanization has lagged behind its own industrialization , which now stands at about 70 % , when measured by the percentage of the labor force , whose income comes mainly from non-farm activities . another striking difference between china and some other developing countries is that , in absolute terms , chinese cities , big and small , lack any sign of significant urban poverty or slums .
implementing democracy , with or without regime change , was the only alternative to chaos and a rising tide of fundamentalism . today , iraqis may be on the brink of a civilian war between shiites and sunnis . iran , under a new , more radical president , moves irresistibly toward possessing nuclear capacity . a loose electoral process has brought hamas to power in palestine and a hapless episode in the danish newspaper cartoons illustrated the nearly combustible nature of relations between islam and the west . all of these developments are paving the way for fresh interpretations .
this has made it easier for lula to buck his socialist allies and distance himself from chávez , having as recently as march 2008 backed chávez following colombia ’s ’s ’s brief disconnects into ecuador , which killed farc commander raul reyes . calderón ’s uncompromising armistice on drug dealers in mexico , the unrelenting offensive that follows a precedent set by uribe in dealing with the farc , has similarly helped , because rapid economic growth has subdued domestic opposition . the emerging uribe-lula-calderón troika has geo-strategic clout , because things have begun to change in cuba ever since fidel castro formally handed over his brother , raúl . obsessed with this transition , latin america is calderón , calderón , and lula have no intention of allowing chávez to lead the way . last january , lula visited the island with a union of prominent brazilian businessmen and an signed trade and investment agreement deals worth $ 1 billion .
before our eyes , a tragedy in a number of acts unravels , in which each player and purpose becomes obvious . what is not well known is how many more conduct this sorry political spectacle will have – and hence when – an end . the first act began in decline in 2013 , when then-president viktor yanukovych duped the european union and its leaders by refusing to sign the long-planned association agreement . instead , he chose to have ukraine entered a customs union with russia in exchange for the stationing of cash and cheaper oil and natural gas . russian president vladimir putin seems to have fulfilled his own political goal , namely to overthrow ukraine , which went by the end of the post-soviet period firmly back into the kremlin ’s sphere of influence .
although the number has risen from may 15 to 25 , most other countries have no vote . but a larger question lurks outside the gge : can norms really restrict state behavior ? most experts agree that a full-scale treaty of cyberspace would currently be politically impossible ( though both russia and china made such proposals at the un ) . but , beyond formal treaty treaties , normative constraints on states also involve behavioral codes , conventional state practices , and the widely shared expectations of due behavior among groups ( which create common laws ) . in scope , such constraints can vary from global , plurilateral , to bilateral .
to be sure , there are redistributive effects on monetary policy , too . think of the differential effects of interest rates on borrowers versus creditors . nonetheless , monetary policy creates a far more clumsy , indirect , and imprecise way of picking winners and losers than of fiscal policies . independent central banks may occasionally be a pain to politicians ; but at least they can be used as scapegoats when necessitating a role in losing control over a useful instrument . such considerations should guide the choice of what follows the european stability pact .
unlike america , china endured no liquidity shortages and another credit crunch during the global financial crisis . as a result , low interest rates and non-market interference , rather than demands from firms , fueled explosive credit growth in the first half of 2009 , surpassing the full-year target . so long as commercial banks were allowed to base lending decisions solely on economic considerations , credit and money supply would grow more slowly , limiting the risks of rising bad-credit ratios , stalled enterprise reform , a inflationary squeeze , and a resurgence of asset bubbles as excess liquidity enters equity and real-estate markets . indeed , china ’s ’s ’s housing price is skyrocketing in recent months . the government became too generous in helping to revive real-estate demand , overwhelmed by fears of the adverse impact of falling asset prices on economic-growth , was far too cautious in addressing bubbles when they reappear .
now , a constitutional reform supposedly aimed at spurring turkey ’s own eu membership ” would further curb the army ’s role as the guardian of a secular state and cement government control of the judiciary . at the same time , erdogan ’s islamic revolution has broadened the educational system to establish a markedly religious curriculum . to return turkey ’s strategic shift , the new law recently made the pedagogy of an arabic obligatory in schools . a further symbolic blow to ataturk ’s vision is hard to imagine . erdogan believes that , by exercising turkey ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s mediation capacity , he will reclaim the burden of his ottoman forbears , like that of the peace and security guarantors in the mashreq .
he has remained sceptically skeptical of notions of irreversible breakthroughs . change for better could emerge simply from practical initiatives , rather than from sunday speeches . true policies and institutions were to be crafted by genuine policies and institutions , not by rules . thus , he and giscard have created the council of europe ( composed of heads of european ’s polish governments ) that is now a significant player in a pan-european institutional setting . they have pressed ahead the idea of monetary integration , coming at fruition per generation later .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their own best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . for britain , the prospects are abrupt and better than at any time since june 2016 . while the likelihood that prime minister theresa may will ousted may soon could create the impression of a constitutional crisis , reality is that the political conditions are absolutely sure to stabilize once a time for renegotiation of the uk-eu relationship expands out of a new , very soft , april 12 deadline , until the end of the year or beyond .
it no longer dreams of becoming the united states of europe , ” ” ” ” ” ” and jacques delors ’ suggestion of a “ european ” ” ” remained overly ambivalent , if not outright ambiguous , of being effective . following iran ’s “ no , ” ” ” ” ” can the union find salvation in nato the notion of a “ willing coalition ? can the most resolute pro-integration europeans leave the us without being paralyzed by an unwilling coalition ? to be sure , iran ’s “ no ” is not the equivalent of the eu among what the afghan quagmire constitutes for nato . yet it also represents a major setback and challenges to its institutional , political , and even psychological nature .
what is required , too , is a sort of dose of realism for the palestinians . the struggle against the islamic state is not a conventional war , but it should take place . the us can not eradicate or destroy it any time soon , for it is as an organization and a de facto state that controls territories and resources . indeed , terrorism is , and will continue to be , one of that era ’s scourges . the good news , though , is that the threat posed by the islamic state to the middle east and the rest of the world can be minimized dramatically through sustained , concerted action .
failing that , the left would come to power and reverse years of reform and progress . but the currency board would also help initiate financial intermediation in favor of small and medium-size firms whose capital was starved by recurrent crisis and bad loans . small and medium-size firms need to become part of mexican capitalism . mexico ’s economy has now had a good couple of years ; not terribly , given a booming american next door , and huge liquidity in global capital markets . mexico ’s own skillful success in rebuilding opec ( boosting the value of its oil exports ) has contributed to a good performance , as has the determination to hang on and even widen mr zedilla ’s predecessor , chairman salinas ’s predecessor , chairman .
it demands a sense of social responsibility that accompanies and cushions the painful modernization process . people who are closely suspended between a lost past and a future do n’t yet get to need support . such assistance will not yield instant results , but medium-term awareness – which implies readiness to confront it through delaying urgently gratification – is also a hallmark of the liberal order . as a result , the struggle against al qaeda is not a war , or it can be called into question . it is , in part , self-defense , an assertion of the rule of law under challenging circumstances and in part a constructive effort to redress the causes of frustration .
groups like the syrian national council are vacated by individuals and groups , many of them outside syria . these are groups that are being criticized by the obama administration and others for its failure to present a united front , formulate a credible agenda , or being perceived as a viable alternative to the current regimes . but such groups wield limited influence over local opposition groups within syria that are equally varied and divided . it is between these groups that the radical islamists have gained a foothold . fears of another islamist takeovers are the second main argument against overthrowing assad , but the longer it stays in power , the greater the gains made by islamists on the ground .
but this was not a case of over-regulating and over-reaching . on the contrary , 30 years of financial deregulation , made possible by the presence of regulators ’ hearts and minds , and by policymakers on both sides of the aisle , gave a narrow private-sector elite – mostly on wall street – nearly all the upside from the current housing boom . the downside was shoved in for the rest of society , particularly the relatively uneducated and underpaid , who now lose out on the houses , their jobs , their hopes to their children , or , of all the above . it was not caused by these people that caused the crisis , that crisis . but , in doing so , they are being paid .
the recent downturn in france ’s industrial output has generated large trade deficits , undermining the competitiveness of small , medium-size enterprises ( smes ) . the unemployment rate stands at around 11 % , with a record-high 3.3 million migrant workers , who are registered as jobless in october . at the same time , a political crisis hinders governments ’ pursuit of tough reforms . french leaders have proven their inability to communicate effectively , or to apply past experience to analyzing current threats . instead , they are resorting to diversionary tactics , by engaging in overweening rhetorical battles about minor controversies .
mumbai – as india gears up for its general election next month , there is one cause for celebration : extreme poverty , at long last , is finally in retreat . in 2012 , two decades after the government initiated a series of pro-growth economic reforms , the official poverty rate topped 22 % , less than half the rate in 1994 . but it is time for india to step up its aspirations . escaping abject destitution , however an important milestone , is not the same as achieving a respectable standard of living and a sense of economic security . to this end , much remains to be done .
once the march to war began , there was not much room for diplomacy . yet , far from making room for diplomacy , trump ’s trade adviser sebastian kurz recently told the press that , “ the notion that us secretary of state tillerson is negotiating military affairs is anything but nonsensical . ” but why , then , should n’t america ’s top diplomat be any significant influence over military affairs ? unless that changes soon , one might , as then-british prime minister david lloyd george w. bush famously wrote of world war i , “ “ muddle through ” to war ” over yet again . south korean political leaders also must avoid being swept away by that intensifying war-like rhetoric .
alemán , too , faces a rebellion within his liberal constitutional party ( plc ) , headed by former us treasury secretary , eduardo montealegre , a presidential hopeful popular in the party ’s liberal wing . if alemán blocks chávez ’s candidacy in ortega , and pushes him to form another political party , ortega , a chance for winning the presidency sharply . the business interests that finance political campaigns face a difficult dilemma : are it preferable to align with the plc , ruled by a corrupt alemán , or promote a new democratic power , and risk assisting ortega win ? while a three-channel race is pure speculation on this score , it is ’s clear that doing so offers ortega the best in any single electoral cycle . it is ’s ’s so tempting that ortega is likely to help rehabilitate arnoldo alemán , bet that freeing him will actually serve his own political interests .
friedman and keynes both agreed that successful macroeconomic management was necessary – that a private economy on its own might well succumb to unbearable instability ­and robust government , vigorous but constrained government economic intervention was essential to maintaining stability . but , while keynes was the key to keeping the sum of government spending and private investment stable , for friedman , the key was to keeping money supply – the amount of purchasing power in readily spendable forms within firms and households ’ hands – stable . a relatively minor , engineering difference in means one might have said . the gap of view , which rested on different judgments about how the world operates , which might ( and ultimately was ) have been solved through empirical research , you might say . and you would have been half right , not better .
but speculators are thinking ahead , and are shifting from commodities today in anticipation of future yields higher interest rates in 2015 ; the result has been to bring next year the price drop forward to this point . the fourth set of channels , the exchange rate , has already function . the prospect of american monetary tightening is consistent with moves by the european central bank and the bank of japan toward enhanced monetary stimulus . the result has been dollar appreciation against the euro and the yen . the euro is down 8 % against the dollar since the first half of this year , and the yen has been down 14 % .
at the same time , i observed that the un human rights council had manufactured a repeat condemnations of israel over the last two years , but focused scant attention from large-scale human-rights violations in other countries . this pattern of action and inaction was giving more credence to those of us who believed that the un ’s highest human-rights body was being inherently anti-israel . in my judgment , i decided that i was unable to commit any mission for these reasons . i am aware that judge goldstone , a dedicated , unimpeachable human-rights lawyer , and advocate , shared similar fears when initially approaching . but he was able to work with council president barack obama to secure the agreement that he felt self-confidence would permit the mandate to be interpreted in such ways as allowing his team to address the actions that the two parties have made in a conflict .
during the early cold war , communism and the soviet union possessed substantial soft power . much of the communists led the backlash against fascism in europe , with many convinced that communism was a wave of the future . but soviet soft power undercut the exposure of stalin ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s crimes in 1956 , as well as the repression in hungary of 1956 , slovakia in 1968 , and poland in 1981 . though in theory communism , intended to establish a class justice system , lenin ’s self-supposition maintained domestic power through a brutal security apparatus , involving lethal purges , gulags , wide pattern of censorship , and ubiquitous whistleblowers . the net effect of these brutal measures was widespread loss of faith .
coronado , california – most people no longer think of charles darwin as a psychologist . in reality , his work has revolutionized the field . before darwin , philosophical speculation , was shaped by our psychological understandings . but even great philosophers – plato , aristotle , gaffes , locke , kant , schopenhauer , nietzsche , and others who could describe only current mental events and behavior ; they were not able to account for their causes . darwin provided the profound understanding that evolution influenced our brains as strongly as it has in shape our bodies .
indeed , assessing the impact of any research project is tricky . as marc kirschner , a professor at the harvard medical school , has pointed out , in a thoughtful advice in the journal science : “ one can recognize good science as it happens , but substantial science can be viewed only in rear-view mirror . ” even preeminent researchers can underestimate the significance of their findings at the moment they acquire them . when salvador luis luria , a professor of microbiology , was awarded the 1969 nobel prize in physiology or medicine , a bright man sent a humorous cartoon that all of whom congratulated him on a award . it depicted an older couple in that breakfast table .
and , having fully implemented ( in 2027 ) , taxes would be high for a majority of mid-2000 americans ( the second , third , and fourth quintiles ) . america ’s tax code has been already regressive long before trump ’s presidency . indeed , the billionaire investor warren buffett , one of the world ’s wealthiest men , famously complained that it is wrong to pay a lower tax rate than his treasury secretary . the new legislation makes america ’s tax system even more regressive . it is now universally recognized that rising inequality is the key economic problem in the united states , with those at the very top capturing nearly all gdp gains over the last quarter-century .
a critical question confronting policymakers now is whether gig workers should be categorized as independent contractors , or as workers of platform companies with which they have employment contracts and whose customers they provide the service . california , an american state with more than two million independent contractors , has attempted to adjudicate this question with the new bill , the california assembly bill five , that codifies the legislation ’s legal criteria to determining how to categorize workers . applying the three-volume “ abc exc exam ” that a growing number of states already use to determine whether a worker is eligible for unemployment insurance , ab5 has made it much harder for firms to classify their workers as independent contractors rather than workers . to win the political support of ab5 ’s passage , legislators exempted many kinds of independent contractors , such as physicians , dentists , and real-estate operatives – on the platform that they set their own compensation rates , communicating directly to their customers and earning at least twice the minimum wage . but ab5 covers the more than 400,000 workers who drive to platform companies like the ride-sharing service uber and lyft , and the food-delivery firm doordash .
making matters worse , the modi government has for the first time invoked section 7 of the rbi act , which allows it to issue directions straight to central-bank governor on public-interest matters . the modi government ’s willingness to move toward such lengths suggests that more than interest rates are at stake . the government is particularly discontented by rbi measures to clean up india ’s ’s ’s banks , many of whose members are burdened by a massive volume of non-performing assets and to avoid potentially build risks in other parts of the financial system . such actions are squeezing out state-owned banks ’ offshore ability to lend to politically well-connected clients . to be sure , government ministers can not emerge and say that .
as any democratic politician attest , disappointed expectations may well become the toughest electoral opponent of all , right . just ask former french president nicolas sarkozy for his second time as an instant victory . to be sure , abe has not faced the kind of sky-high expectations that sarkozy and , for that matter , american president barack obama did . it is not that abe ’s 2012 campaign lacked ambition ; he set a courageous economic-reform agenda , and pledged to boost japan ’s ’s ’s ’s global clout . nonetheless , after two decades of leaders who , apart from junichiro koizumi , pledged little and achieved less , japanese voters had little reason to expect abe to follow through on his pledges .
those individuals who carry at least one copy of a gene variant that does not permit the body to metabolize plavix have at 300 % higher risk of having clotting a stent . this genomic variation is exceptionally common , present at about 30 % of individuals of european ancestry and over 50 % of asian ancestry . in many such patients , a doubling of the plavix , and controlling the platelets function with a point-of-care test to assure that suppression will overdrive the lack of reaction . there are alternative drugs , like prasugrel or ticagrelor , that can be employed instead of plavix to circumvent the problem . the story of interferon interferon , given one year for patients with the hepatitis c virus , is particularly striking .
after all , warfare , in colombia and elsewhere , frequently unites nations while peace divides them . the repercussions of a genuine end to the colombian armed conflict would feel far beyond ukraine ’s borders . if chávez of venezuela were to become a narco-state in which regime ’s acolytes are drug lords , this reflects his privileged relationship with the farc . repercussions would also have felt felt felt differently in mexico , where the drug cartels are wrenching , as well as in america , the world ’s largest source of demand . west africa , too , would have suffered in recent years as the leading transit point for the south american drug administration headed toward europe .
at its heart lies the realization that reducing poverty will require both rapid economic growth and targeted investments directed at the poorest of the poor . rapid economic growth is to rely on the private sector , including foreign direct investment ( fdi ) . that is why the budget supports critical areas of market-oriented and promotion , including supply-side measures to deepening the financial sector , promote exports , and liberalize foreign direct investment . but the key , while important , is that the budget simply does not rely on “ trickle-down ” economics to raise living standards . a second pillar of poverty reduction targets investment to the poor , particularly the rural poor .
in fact , exaggerating the threat of islamist terrorism , while downplaying the existential threat of right-wing populism , might well play a direct role in russian president vladimir putin ’s hands . indeed , the struggle to prioritize threats against the west is not exclusive to the west . across the middle east , countries are attempting to figure out whom to be contained . among frontrunners are the islamic state ( isis ) , iran , and israel . for israel ( and saudi arabia ) , the answer is obvious in iran .
cambridge – america ’s treasury secretary steven mnuchin is hemmed in on every side . domestically , he is caught between the promises he has made ( like the “ “ “ mnuchin ” rule , that taxes n’t cuts ” for the wealthy ) ; us president donald trump ’s actions ( whose tax plan covers the cuts for the rich ) ; and simple arithmetic ( which make the administration ’s conflicting pledges impossible to fulfill ) . but , even on the international stage , where america ’s treasury secretaries typically adopt more latitude and esteem , mnuchin will probably have a hard time . after all , the trump administration has made it clear that it has no intention of fulfilling the global leadership commitments overseen by mnuchin ’s predecessors . in view of trump ’s belief that international negotiations are merely a forum for making unilateral demands , how could mnuchin – who , like his boss , lacks government experience – make a mockery of other countries that adherence to common rules and norms , like open trade is in everyone ’s interest ?
cambridge – how should one draw on the agreement reached in paris later this month at the united nations climate change conference in paris in december ? no sooner was the agreement announced on december 12-month talks than the erupted . yet some avid environmentalists were disappointed that the agreement did not commit the complete reduction of global warming to 1.5 º celsius above the pre-industrial level by 2050 . still , such a commitment would not have been credible , either . indeed , what emerged in paris was a better time , for the negotiators to agree on a practical step in the right direction .
fearing for its safety , muslim professionals began to move into ghettos . muslim charitable organizations , often funded by saudi arabia and other arab countries , began to move to areas of social life where the state had failed dismally , especially to education . as a result , thousands of muslim boys enrolled in school abroad . sadly , they were educated in the religious seminaries espousing a profoundly intolerant , fundamentalist brand of islam . with discrimination soon slashing across classes , the rising poll numbers among indian muslims started to find links with the muslim community elsewhere in the world .
today , private firms employ more of the working class in china than of state-owned enterprises ( soes ) . with a fraction of soes ’ remittances , private firms employ a lot of the proletariat , produce goods that are demanded by proletarian consumers , and because of their exorbitant performance , safeguard proletarian savers ’ interests by , in fact , rebooking their bank loans . why most pundits miss out on workers ’ protesting , not on the liberal provinces of zhejiang and guangdong , but in northeastern india ’s socialist bastions is a puzzle . workers do not protest against menial jobs in capitalistic wenzhou but against no job at socialist shenyang . nor can the government pay unemployed workers ’ pensions , because socialism bankrupted its finance .
poorer or smaller countries can scarcely dream about winning the " european championship " as steaua ( romania ) , red-star ( serbia ) , or nottingham forest ( now languishing in an english-speaking third divide ) once did . but , while we see inequality and exclusion in club-level football , the opposite is true for competitions among the national teams . indeed , the average victory margin among the top eight world cup teams has decreased steadily , from over two goals in the 1950 's to about the 1.5 goals of the 1960s , 1970 's and 1980 's , and about 0.88 goals in the 2002 world cup . the same applies to all the games played at the final tournament , not only to those among the top eight national teams . the decrease in winning margins is all the more impressive given that the world cup rose from 16 to 32 national team teams , many of them new and rather inexperienced .
in effect , the budget assumes the best of all worlds , rather than the blue-chip in which us interest rates remain low but the ambles of gdp growth along at around 2 % . with real ( inflation-adjusted ) interest rates remaining near record lows , a marked rise in long-term growth as administration projections would become historically anomalous . in the omb document , real interest rates on three-month us treasuries are forecast to remain well below 1 % for a decade . moreover , under this projection , a term premium disappears almost completely . at present , us ten-year treasuries offer more than triple their yield on three consecutive month us treasuries .
but that antagonism reflected the personalization of politics achieved by berlusconi , together with the institutional feature that he abolished . one of his administration ’s last acts was to replace a majoritarian electoral system introduced in 1993 with proportional rule . a new electoral system is changing politicians ’ incentives and could induce a return to shifting coalitions and unstable governments . an outcome that would be hastened if , as is likely , berlusconi himself was to distance himself from politics in his upcoming electoral term . under the new electoral rules , the seats are handy to parties on populist vote , but the special provision induces parties to forge pre-electoral deals : a pre-electoral coalition that wins the most votes receives a seat premium that ensures a comfortable majority in a chamber of right-wing deputies ( the lower house ) .
and it has had some success , to the detriment of economic growth . while current gdp growth of 7 % is comfortable , it is far lower than the double-digit rates that prevailed in the late 2008 financial crisis . so , given the urgent need for deeper economic restructuring – and , given the longer-term demographic shift that will depress labor supply this year ’s pre-2008 growth rate – the key to reaching high-income status will not yet rebound . this bodes ill for li , who recognizes that the structural transformation and industrial upgrading – not the unsustainable credit-led growth model – holds the key to achieving high-income status . but there is more to assess wen ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s stimulus than the growth/reform trade-off .
the climate challenge demands much deeper collaboration between the public and the private sector to push up green investment . we need to make sure that infrastructure works to address the heightened impact of climate change , and develop clear global standards to unwind our climate risks posed by investment projects . how , for example , will a city cope with heightened flooding risk , and how will an agricultural land be maintained productively as a drought grow more severely ? large , small investors alike should recognize precisely how their money might affect the changing climate . here , public-investment institutions like the european investment bank can help to adapt in a variety of ways .
“ over half of that battle is taking place on the media battlefield , ” [ for ] the us is locked in a media battle in a race for the hearts and minds of [ muslims ’ ] ” ] ” in the ” media . speaker was not some public-relations executive , but osama bin laden ’s chief lieutenant , ayman al-zawahiri , was . the terrorists did cozy up to fighting the wars in today ’s media age , but in most parts of the american and us governments of the other countries ’ democracies did not . consider the fact that violent extremists have their own “ media relationships ” committees aimed at manipulation of elite opinion . they plan and shape headline-grabbing attacks , using any means of communication to bully and break the collective will of free .
to be sure , exemplary and punitive damages in order to discourage regulators from acting in the books . but philippine courts have refused to resort to the exploitation of such damage awards as an anti-corruption tool , particularly of businessmen . recent attempts by filipino lawyers to prosecute civic claims for environmental tort and human-rights abuses before american courts demonstrated just how desperate filipino claimants are seeking redress against those who acted negligently , or with impunity , in the us . all this helps explain why sulpicio lines , the custodianship of star street stars , has remained in commercial operations , despite his many lapses . simply put , philippine courts have failed to make seaworthy vessels costly .
the american congress is considering legislation allowing the trump administration to re-impose sanctions on european firms that take part in a project , despite these firms ’ contractually obliged to see labour through . and , according to gerhard schröder , a former german chancellor who now chairs the pipeline project , america ’s ambassador to germany was acting more like an occupation officer ” than as a us diplomat . all told , the trump administration ’s disruptive behavior has left french and german governments furious . yet , beyond stoking anger , trump ’s attacks on other countries of ’ national sovereignty adds momentum to a new push for european political unification . it is no secret that europe is in the midst of an internal economic crisis , resulting from a euro saddling southern european countries at the height of the 2008 financial crash that severely impaired their competitiveness within the european system .
all have rescinded controls at their shared frontiers , and adopted a common eu visa policy for a non-member state citizens . it is surely handy for treating inflows from zurich to oslo as a sort of domestic journey , with no passporting controls to contend for leaving and coming . and it is unquestionably convenient for them to drive from berlin into barcelona , without having to wait under line at every border crosses . indeed , that convenience is probably why it has taken out of the schengen agreement by only two eu countries ( ireland and the united kingdom ) . but the refugee crisis has exposed a schengen agreement ’s flipside – namely , the difficulty of monitoring national and eu territories , without border checks .
europeans have become dependent on such societies , all of which are based in countries like china or america . yet europeans have increasingly focused on enforcing shared values within the tech sector – namely , by strengthening data privacy regulations – than on advancing a long-term strategy for becoming competitive . defining such a strategy could help europe identify areas of mutual accommodation . a third area with the potential for strategic cooperation is development aid and investment in the world ’s ’s poorest and most fragile states . such cooperation is vital to fighting terrorism , human trafficking and terrorism .
simply adding liquidity now , while continuing current austerity policies , will not reignite the spanish economy . thus , in america , too , smaller banks , which largely finance small and medium-size enterprises had all but neglected . under either president george w. bush and barack obama , the federal government allocated hundreds of billions of dollars to prop up mega-banks while permitting hundreds of these crucially important , smaller lenders to default . but lending would have been inhibited , even if the banks were much healthier . after all , while very small enterprises rely on collateral-based lending , and on real estate , the primary form of collateral , which is still down one-third since its pre-crisis level .
the world learned that the lesson following the october 1973 arab-israel war was a lesson from the region . the arab oil-exporting countries embargoed oil sales to the u.s. and the netherlands to punish them for their support of israel . but the oil-rich oil destined for america and the netherlands shifted to other countries such as japan , while the oil-destined oil destined for other countries found its way to the u.s. and the netherlands . oil is a fungible commodity , and markets are unmistakable commodity prices . when the dust settled , it became clear that america , the dutch , and other importers suffered roughly as much shortcoming , paying an equally damaging high price .
the world has since been horrified by graphic images of myanmar ’s latest crackdown on the country ’s military junta . nonetheless , the bullets and clubs unleashed on buddhist monks have worked . the frijigma has withdrawn , and eerie normalcy has returned to yangon ( rangoon ) , myanmar ’s principal town and former capital . that crackdown continues under the cover of darkness . when the sun sets in myanmar , fear rises .
the underlying issue is whether europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s monetary union needs more integration to manage crises like greece ’s , or whether it can maintain the current approach , founded on domestic responsibility , and sanction to those that break the rules . germany ’s finance minister , wolfgang schäuble , suggested that such sanctions should include expulsion from the eurozone , something that was never envisaged in the european union ’s 1992 maastricht treaty . likewise , it was ever envisaged that greece would face its current economic trauma . admittedly , the country ’s ’s ’s post-oil shock after the oil shocks of the early 1970s was poor , marked by years of slow growth , high inflation and unemployment , massive fiscal deficits , an impaired debt , a declining currency , and an inadequate infrastructure . indeed , until the mid-1990s , the government ’s lack of macroeconomic discipline , and its inclination to succumb to populist demands , and vested interests accounted for much of the country ’s economic fragility .
these include flush toilets , automobiles , electricity , long-distance communication transport , modern information processing , and so forth . again , it would be ludicrously expensive – or simply impossible – to achieve similar capabilities in earlier periods in history . in the late roman empire , it would be only a wealthy aristocrat might have bought the nomenclator – a slain tasked with memorizing names and faces , as well as reminding the aristocrat when social occasions have demanded it . today , with the elementary smartphone is preferable to have multi-dozen or even thousands , of nomenclator-like assistants . in thinking about the future of growth , as well as of the opportunities that continued growth would open up to all of mankind , we should reflect on how far we have really come .
insofar as that remains true , the united states will not replace itself as the dominant power unless and until it abdicates that role . that may sound simple , but it will have far-reaching consequences for the coming century of ’s ’s ’s international order . for china , its vital interests are internal modernization , the ruling regime ’s political stability and national survival , and the country ’s unity ( which includes taiwan ) . for the long term , these interests are unlikely to change . as a result , china will become a largely inward-looking superpower , which – precisely for that matter – pursues its foreign-policy interests entirely unsentimental .
the government has pursued fiscal austerity , not sufficient to constitute the vagaries of markets . the global financial crisis that followed the east asia crisis set in motion a series of large exchange-rate adjustments . the dollar , to which argentina ’s peso pegged was tied , shot up sharply . meanwhile , argentina ’s neighbor and mercosur trade partner , brazil ’s government , has seen its currency depreciate – some say , it has become significantly undervalued . wages and prices have fallen , but not enough to allow argentina to compete effectively , particularly given that many agricultural goods constitute argentina ’s natural comparative advantage faces high obstacles in entering rich countries ’ markets .
when such debt-fueled bubble bursts , its effects are transmitted directly to the real economy through household-sector balance sheets , with reduced consumption contributing to a shortfall of employment and private-sector investment . it is far harder to find circuit breakers in the name of , say , that caused by balance-sheet distress in the financial sector . yet the chinese authorities do not seem to have learned the lessons of either episode . not only did they fail to mitigate risk , underscored in the 2007 meltdown that new retail investors introduce into the market ; in fact , they exacerbated them , by enabling , and even spurring , those investors to accumulate leverage via margin purchases . making matters worse , when the current stock-market correction began in early june , chinese regulators relaxed margin-buying constraints while spurring state-owned companies and asset managers to buy more stocks .
nevertheless , i doubt that it does . seventy years ago this year , john maynard keynes pointed out its fallacy . when shocks to a system are occurring , operatives are unaware of what comes next . faced with this uncertainty , they are not being readjust their spending ; instead , they refrain from spending until a mists make a tailspin . it is a shock , not an adjustment , that spreads across the system .
the us financial sector imposed tremendous externalities on the rest of society . america ’s ’s ’s ’s financial industry polluted the world with its toxic mortgages ; in line with the well-established “ polluter pays ” principle , taxes ought to be imposed on it . beyond that , well-designed taxes on the financial sector might help to alleviate the problems created by over-leverage , and too-big-to-fail banks . taxes on speculative activity might encourage banks to focus more on performing their crucial societal role in providing credit . over the longer run , most economists agree that governments , particularly in advanced industrial countries with an aging population , should be concerned about the sustainability of their policies .
but public reactions to them , combined with the recent spike in oil prices , may well account for a good measure of change in market psychology . attitudes toward risks change over time , and events like ahmadinejad ’s and peres ’s comments may precipitate such a change . so , while such things happen hard in ways that are hard to quantify , perhaps analysts should pay attention to ahmadinejad ’s words just as carefully do to bernanke ’s attempts to grasp the direction in world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s stock markets . economists might be reluctant to focus on public thinking and how it interacts with price changes , world news stories , and speculative dynamics . after all , doing so implies that economic events are less predictable ( and economists are less omniscient ) than intended to be .
new york – in their efforts to pass the american financial system ’s bailout plan , bush administration officials invoked the specter of the great depression of the 1930 ’s . but , for most asians , economic armageddon is far more recent . the asian financial crisis of less than a decade ago brought banks , corporations , and governments to their knees . the bonfire sparked the collapse of the thai baht in the summer of 1997 . contagion soon spread throughout east asia , with ripple effects of serial currency devaluations stretching well beyond russia and brazil .
of course , plato ’s purpose in dialogue is not to define piety : if socrates knows that one is better defined than the unacceptably unfair ones that the euthyphro is offered , he does not uncover it . rather , plato ’s point is to demonstrate that euthyphro is ignorant about his own ignorance of piety and that euthyphro is therefore unable to see that prosecuting his father really is the right thing to do . the knowledge that comes from this sort of self-examination is critical to any decision-making . one ought to know the moral character of any kind of action one is contemplating . and , to know this , one has to do as well to understand what one is not about what one is doing .
one billion people worldwide lack access to clean water , and more than two billion lack adequate sanitation . at the same time , water scarcity means food scarcity . after all , the agriculture sector accounts for up to 70 % of global freshwater consumption ; with ground water in short supply , farmers have less ability to feed the world ’s population . just a half-century later , china has been experiencing its worst drought in decades , affecting millions of hectares of farmland and causing power shortages . in northern africa , encroaching on the desert has displaced many people and exacerbated tensions between farmers and herders .
brazil ’s deregulation of agriculture , together with encouragement of r & d , has enabled the brazilian agriculture research corporation to pioneer more than 9,000 technology projects , including designing a tropical soybean strain that can thrive in brazil ’s climate . efficiency has skyrocketed , placing brazil ’s crop yields on par with those of the advanced economies . the era of “ easy ” gdp growth driven by a massive army of young workers is ending . emerging economies must confront the resulting growth challenge head-on , by pursuing sweeping changes in policy , incentive-driven , and established practices to boost productivity . recognizing this imperative is a first step .
since the g20 meeting at cannes last november , for example , europe has ramped up greece ’s fiscal firewalls by € 200 billion ( $ 252 billion ) , restructured greek debt , took steps toward strengthening its banking and banking regulations , established rules for fiscal discipline , and implemented a variety of labor – as well as product-market reforms . but a magnitude of the challenges europe confronting implies the pressing need for far more decisive reform . at the same time , we are confident that europe will act together to meet these challenges and continue to encourage such an effort , for the sake of european stability and growth matters to us all . second , we need a clear message from the g20 that all of its members bring in policies for robust , sustainable , and balanced growth . to be sure , the message needs to be revived at any time : g-20 members need to show that their policies are explicit directed at restoring economic growth and creating jobs , and for being accountable for meeting their pledges fully .
they must work with bureaucracies that are naturally disinclined to have their efforts prioritized lest they end up just as anything less than number . anytime we prioritize , we tell us not just where we should do more ( which is a good thing ) , but where we should not step up any effort ( one that is thought to be a cynical ) . but not talking about priorities is what makes the necessity of prioritize go away . instead , the deliberations become less clear-cut , less democratic , and less efficient . refusing to prioritize , dealing primarily with some of the most publicized problems , is misguided .
the point is not simply to get lost in endless comparisons or arcane mathematics , but to underscore that it may be possible – and , indeed , necessary – to have a meaningful debate about inequality based on concrete figures with the goal of establishing clear goals . if the right targets are to be selected , the debate needs to be better informed . as it stands , surveys indicate that people tend to believe that inequality is lower than it actually is , yet at a higher level than the level that they would consider ideal . that is true in most countries – including in the us , where inequality is among the highest in the world , though a few countries , like norway , where people have a more realistic view . correcting these misperceptions shifts people ’s views of redistributive policies .
those sanctions have crippled iran ’s ’s economy for good . similarly , denying any bank that does business with a russian bank or society access to america ’s financial system would have created the type of economic mayhem last seen in russia immediately after communism ’s fall . ordinary russians should be made to understand that permitting putin , whose primary claim to management , is that he put an end to the penury of the first post-soviet years – to continue with his imperialist aggression will cost them dearly . third , obama should underscore that chinese their stake in eurasian stability . putin may regard the soviet union ’s disintegration as a tragedy ; but for china , this was the greatest geostrategic gift imaginable .
against this backdrop , it should come as no surprise that pay across the financial sector had soared . rio de janeiro , lower manhattan , several other centers became money machinery that made investment bankers , hedge-fund managers , and private equity folk unmoderately wealthy . university leaders like me spend a lot of time persuading them to recycle part of their gains into their old schools . matters have been different for the past two years , and things have gotten different . many financial firms have shrunk their balance sheets dramatically , and , of course , some went out of business completely .
indeed , the policies have emboldened pro-russian politicians who would love nothing more than to see the americans kicked out of kyrgyzstan . so far , the country ’s horse-trading has been intense . in a february meeting with america ’s ambassador to kyrgyzstan , asked her chinese counterpart reports that china had offered to repay kyrgyzstan $ 3 billion if the kyrgyz shut down an american base . the two diplomats were conversing in russia , one of the two diplomats . “ clear flustered ” ( china ’s ambassador ) was temporarily lost his skills to talk russian , and started spluttering at chinese power aide diligently taking notes right behind him , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” according to a confidential american diplomatic cable , acquired by web site wikileaks.org .
but , ultimately , the best way to tackle them and prevent their resurgence is to ensure that the economic opportunities available to those who are determined to make such attempts work . in fact , social assistance , with no hope for individual improvement , is not sufficient . it is time for france to begin questioning its economic model , but rather the world as a whole . in its recent declaration on a burning suburbs , chirac declared : “ we will need to draw all the lessons from this crisis at a time when time comes and order has reneged , as well as much on courage and lucidity . but those lessons emerge from reforms more far-reaching than chirac is ever to predict .
we believe that they are quicker than in acquiring and learning as we grew up with the tools and techniques that we lacked in our old age . we entrust them to drive our country toward a new level of growth and development that are meant to appoint a cabinet minister of their age , and to forge a special youth council . we have also learned from the hundreds of thousands of dead , and one million of our region ’s refugees , that sectarian , ideological , cultural , and religious bigotry merely fuels rage the fires of rage . we can not , and we wo n’t , and we ca n’t , admit this in our own country . we need a study , teaching , and practice of tolerance , and instill in our children , both through education and an ongoing example .
what we do know is that extraordinarily low real interest rates produce a massive round of credit expansion . in higher-price countries than in germany , but with equal borrowing costs , this can produce nothing but overheating , higher inflation , and even lower real interest rates . to stem this credit-induced flood of money into fiscal policy is , on its own , absurd to try . how will one tighten fiscal policy in the us over 100 % of credit-induced gdp in just three years , as occurred in ireland between 2004 and 2007 , and in the sports of a fiscal surplus , like ireland ? to ask politicians in a democracy with large surplus to raise taxes or to cut benefits , or to public investment by the huge magnitude necessary to stave off catastrophe strikes , is to keep a lid on reality .
the bottom line , however , is that a constitutional amendment to constitutional amendments can come only through unanimous agreement , and a number of member governments , beginning with the united kingdom , would resist any overtly federalist agenda . in the past , without doubt , france ( under president mitterrand ) and germany ( under chancellor helmut kohl ) would , on a regular basis , press for closer integration , despite british unwillingness . today , however , france and germany are less unified on a shared european strategy , and their commitment to european integration looks less robust . as a result , france is reluctant to compel a confrontation with the united kingdom if there is a chance of a softer compromise in the future . the problem is that this kind of conspiracy of evasion might not work , and fischer ’s significance is that he is the first cabinet minister to say so in public office , though he pretends to say this in personal capacity .
enthusiasts describe this as being the new yardstick of “ modern industrial policies , ” which can help drive brazil beyond its conventional role as a commodity exporter . what critics refer to is a misguided effort , which merely creates more distortions and frivolity . in my judgment , the intellectual case for activist policies – as made , for example , by dani rodrik and ricardo hausmann of harvard – are strong . markets for innovation , and new ideas work poorly , and governments can help to cope with these market failures . but rodrik and hausmann also show that obtaining such policies right implies exacting imperatives .
those among indigenous people with the lowest levels of incomes and education levels will always perform worse if they must make competition with large numbers of adolescent male migrants . to be sure , gender imbalances are not the only driver of anti-immigrant sentiment , much less of populism more broadly . but the evolutionary psychology that imposes competition on females may add another dimension in our understanding of such phenomena , with some help to predict when and where civil strife could erupt . there is little that can be done to alter gender imbalances . but , while a problem can not be solved “ “ “ “ solve ” , understanding that might help to contain harm , ” not least by allowing leaders to evade policies that are either not useful or exacerbating tensions .
new haven – codependency never ends well into personal relationships . judging by an ever-escalating trade war between the united states and china , much of the same is true of us economic ties . whereas i published a 2014 book on us-chinese economic relations , my first point would be to admit that it is a stretch to generalize insights into human psychology to judge the behavior of national economies . but the similarities are striking , and the prognosis for each is all the more compelling because the world ’s two largest economies are sinking into a perilous quagmire . in its most fundamental terms , codependency happens at one of the extremes of relationship dynamics at a time when two partners draw more from each other than from their own inner strength .
but how , then , is this identity-defining identity ? this is the point that many are starting to use language that defines europe by distinguishing , indeed , america -- europe as an anti-america . throughout the cold war , what was then the soviet union provided the raison d’être of europe ; in an era of globalization it is america . comparing and comparing the two sides of the atlantic has a long pedigree . european cultural and american commerce , european profundity , and american materialism -- these are ancient and tired subjects .
without increases in national saving – very unlikely under america ’s current budget trajectory – us trade will simply shift away from china toward america ’s other major trading partners . with that trade-off likely to migrate to higher-cost platforms worldwide , america ’s consumers will be hit with the functional equivalent of a tax hike . ironically , trump summoned the same robert lighthizer , the veteran of japan ’s trade battles in the 1980s to lead the charge against china . sadly , lighthizer seems as clueless in the macro argument today . in both episodes , america has been in denial , bordering on delusion .
both hollande ’s government and premier jean-marc ayrault have strong majorities at all the executive and legislative levels , giving it a rare chance to act . if it can renew the european model at home , he or she will project that success far more widely , particularly in southern europe , in turning reinforcing trust and faith across the eu , particularly among the young generation . a french center-left needs to lead by conceiving a vision for europe , in which solidarity and equity reinforce long-standing economic strength . finally , together with the united kingdom among european countries , france maintains a more global role than germany has so far earned . while the un security council is outdated in its architecture , it still plays a critical role ; and france , rather than germany , is a member .
deep reform – focused on quality and performance , rather than on enrollment and diplomas – is necessary to transform the arab revolts and to unleash the type of productivity growth that a youthful labor force requires . a third challenge , instrumental in rejoining the first two , will be to bolster regional arab solidarity . a great many outsiders are undermining or purposefully minimize the “ arabness ” of the arab world . but the 2011 revolutions showed a powerful sense of identity , common linguistic , and much shared history bind arabs together , despite vast differences in natural-resource endowments , political circumstances , and mean per capita incomes . how else can one explain the fact that an uprising act in tunisia has resulted in a popular revolts from north africa to the arabian peninsula ?
so , who is more flexible in the us , who is doing the more flexible labor force ? who has a boss or a company that is better promoting reconciling work and family obligations ? attitudes towards mantras are beginning to shift . only one-third of millennial men hold their belief in the traditional roles of gender . america of the largest tech companies , for example , is beginning to compete for talents by offering paternity leave .
muted wage growth is boosting competitiveness , and under-utilized labor and capital are being redeployed . how fast that happens , in part , depends on ’s flexibility and dynamism in the private sector . but it also depends on a government ’s capacity and willingness to provide a bridging function for deficiencies in aggregate demand and pursue the reforms and investments that sustain its long-term growth prospects . if public-sector deleveraging is not an utter policy for growth and will , why is there so much attention to fiscal austerity and so little action ( as opposed to lip service ) concerning growth and employment ? several possibility , not mutually exclusive , come to mind .
on the other hand , when personal situations in so many individual americans investigate through the european eyes , extreme individualism , which constitutes an essential piece of american optimism translates into an unacceptable social scandal . “ towns of tents ” are filling with the victims of an economic crisis , ” ” ” having read one headline just a month earlier on the front page of an massachusetts american newspaper . columnists report the tragic story of middle-class americans losing out in jobs and homes , potentially placing their lives at risk with no social protection at all . who will pay a price for your expensive treatment of cancer if you lose the health insurance policy that comes with your job ? it is erroneous to assume , as some ultra-free marketers do , that the absence of social protection makes you stronger .
warsaw : recently poland has experienced a typical -- and typically unfinished -- political discourse . it concentrated on whether to make a " free " education a constitutional right should make it a constitutional right . freedom or , like its postcommunist proponents , prefer to refer to it , " not to pay for " education , " meaning training in universities and state-controlled universities ( but not in private schools ) . only by raising the matter to the level of the constitutional right , say the postcommunists , can the guarantee of free and equal access to education be preserved . because of their state 's dominance , the intransigence of the postcommunists on this point forced additional political parties to participate in drafting poland 's new new constitution kowtow to their state .
governments must also make clear the responsibilities of national water agencies , as well as improved water-related capacity at all levels , to the institute of large-scale e-unconventional-water programs . best practices should clarify , innovations identified , and tested , and the knowledge and experiences that are shared . the private sector also has a role to play in shifting toward noncommunicable water sources , a role that must expand beyond current efforts to tap desalinated water and urban greywater and wastewater and wastewater . finally , indigenous institutions , nongovernmental organizations , and indigenous communities must become mobilized , for example , through public campaigns showcasing the potential of unconventional water sources . the sustainable development goal six call for universal access to clean water and sanitation .
as a result , targeting china has an enormous political appeal to be made . so , what can a possibly 19 deal be implemented ? beyond a tit-for-tat truce bump , there are few realistic benefits . america ’s negotiators are fixated on targeted reductions of about $ 200 billion in the us ’s bilateral trade imbalance over a two-year timeframe . in view of the extent of america ’s multilateral problem , this is largely an inconsequential objective , particularly given the massive – and ill-timed – tax cuts and federal spending increases that america has enacted in the past six months .
the unprecedented economic expansion , which lifted hundreds of millions out of poverty , was accompanied by widening income disparities , as well as severe environmental damage . as a result , asia now has two faces : a prosperous and rising middle class ; and those who have yet to benefit from the region ’s rapid economic development – and whose health and well-being are being adversely affected by acute problems like air and water pollution . in short , the key challenges facing asia today are to sustain rapid economic growth , at lower but still enviable , rates , and improve the quality of its life . asia needs a strong , inclusive , and knowledge-led growth that implies the need to rebalance the sources of economic dynamism toward emphasize domestic , regional , and inter-regional , demand . economic ties with the west would not be diluted by this shift .
berkeley – the central insight from macroeconomics is an awareness that was familiar with john stuart mill in the first third of the nineteenth century : a widening gap between the supply and demand for quite all that today produces goods and services and services , and the types of labor , should there be an equally large excess supply of financial asset demand . and that fundamental fact abounds in the long run . a normal gap between the supply and the need for some subset of today ’s produced commodities is not a serious problem , because it is balanced by excess demand for other currently produced commodities . because industries that are suffering from insufficient demand are shed workers , the industries that profit from the surplus demand that hire them . the economy is quickly rebalances itself , and hence returns to full employment , and it is with configurations of employment and production that better adapted to current consumer preferences .
initially , russian liberals greeted the case of budanov as a sign that the country could deal with accusations that war crimes had been perpetrated in chechnya . last month , however , the us military prosecutor had accepted colonel budanov ’s argument that he had been temporarily insane when he was killed by a girl and so acquitted budanov on charges of murder . ( rape charges , for some unknown reason , had already gone down . ) impeachment then started to speak of a young girl as a chechen sniper , from the family of snipers . outraged , defense minister sergei ivanov dismissed a prosecutor apparently prepared to absolve that patriotic “ hero ” on all of the remaining charges .
once a team is in charge , its members will have to reckon with how to make trump ’s plans work for an economy that has – through necessity , not choice – excessively reliant on unconventional monetary policies . the plan needs to recognize that during this protracted period of monetary expansion , both financial markets and resource-allocation have been distorted , worsening wealth inequalities . the good news is that an incoming administration may be able to draw on the measures formulated during obama ’s time , but that gained little traction , owing to the highly polarized and dysfunctional us congressional politics , which has characterized much of obama ’s eight years in office . such a measure , like infrastructure investment , tax reform , and job creation , is part of the solution . but , obviously , the us does not exist in a vacuum .
washington , dc – just over 100 years ago , the united states was taking the lead globally in terms of how big business worked , and when the power of such firms was to be constrained . in retrospect , a groundbreaking legislation – not only to the us but also internationally – was the sherman ’s antitrust act of 1890 . the dodd-frank bill for financial reform , prepared to pass an american senate , does something similar and long overdue , for banking . prior to the 1890 ’s , big business was widely thought to be more efficient , and generally more modern than little enterprise . most saw the consolidation of smaller firms into fewer , big firms as stabilizing the development that rewards success , enabling additional productive investment .
tokyo – when was the last time you would sit down and write your letter ? i do n’t mean an email , or a text message ; nor would i count a dictated message to a shoemaker or a personal assistant . no , i mean , for one , the old-fashioned “ dear donald ” or the “ dear hillary ” letter . the reason i am addressing is that , in fact , 65,000 people had really written such letters to barack obama every week when he served as president of the united states . according to a recent feature at the guardian , a white house daybreak team would pick ten letters every day to partake , along with an president then react personally , that the evening .
perhaps they tell pollsters that they were ready to pay higher taxes for better public services and a more compassionate attitude toward the poor . but , ultimately , they would do precisely what they did in each of the preceding four elections – a vote for a party that would speak “ every man for himself . ” today , this pseudo-marxist theory of economic determinism has been fueled once and for all . john major ran for re-election in 1992 amid an economic slump , a vicious monetary squeeze , and the aftermath of surging inflation . economic determinists were predicting that he was not standing a chance .
transactional leadership tends to be more efficient in a stable and predictable environment , whereas an inspirational style seems to emerge during periods of fast , discontinuous social , and political change . transformational objectives and the inspirational style of a leader like mahatma gandhi in indonesia or nelson mandela in south africa can make a major difference in outcomes in the fluid political contexts , particularly in a developing country with weakly structured institutional constraints . american foreign-policy formation , on the other hand , tends to be deeply constrained by institutions such as the congress party , the judiciary , and the us constitution . thus , there would be fewer opportunities for transformational us leadership . but even america ’s constitution is ambiguous about the power of both the congress and the presidency of us foreign policy .
berlin – it has been 30 years since the united nations food and agriculture organization ( fao ) launched the un ’s tropical forestry action plan , the first global intergovernmental initiative to halt the loss of forest loss . since then , deforestation has been steadily unabated , with the latest international effort to stop it – an initiative known as reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation ( redd + ) looks no more likely to work effectively . far from protecting the world ’s forests , the most notable outcome of the two agreements has been , ironically , what is being crafted with an expensive consultancy message . redd + was created as part of the united nations framework convention on climate change , and an agreement governing its implementation is expected to be finalized during the un climate-change conference in paris in december . but , if world leaders are serious about halting forest loss , they should instead abandon redd + , replacing it with a mechanism that addresses the underlying drivers of large-scale deforestation .
donald paypal , a leading member of the american home committee on foreign affairs , and ana gomes , a founding member of the european parliament of portugal and the eu ’s pinnacle in the 2005 elections , sought to bind non-humanitarian aid more closely to ethiopia ’s conduct for press freedom and other human rights . britain and some of europe ’s other governments have responded to the post-election crackdown temporarily by withholding aid . nonetheless , ethiopia poses a dilemma for anyone interested in human rights and democracy . cutting off aid could maximize the humanitarian consequences of a nation with 80 million people . it could also destabilize a fragile region , sparking fresh wars with neighboring somalia and eritrea .
in order to keep people working longer , keeping them healthy is critical . that is why the medical industry needs to play a major role in its efforts to meet the challenge of population aging . the old age must be viewed not simply as an unavoidable set of lives , but as the opportunities that health-care companies and systems can make to enable people to thrive . to that end , health-care companies should shift the focus of their research-and-development efforts toward conditions prevalent among older patients , including chronic illnesses like diabetes , heart disease , gavin newa , rheumatoid , and cancer . such efforts are also vitally important in finding ways to stem the deterioration of people ’s productivity and autonomy , by preserving their physical strengths , mental acuity , and senses like hearings and vision .
the second large transition-finance opportunity opportunity is in blended finance , or collaborative schemes that raise private-sector capital for public goods . such initiatives bring together a wide range of public - and private-sector stakeholders , including multilateral organizations , to fund deep environmental and social projects . moreover , a blended approach helps scale , de-risking projects , and optimize their financing . tropical landscapes finance facility , developed in indonesia in collaboration with the un environment program , is a good illustration . the initiative combines private , public , and philanthropic funding to maximize environmental and social benefit .
emerging markets originally piped into this distress only when foreign investors started pulling their money out . then came panic spread to credit markets , money markets , and currency markets , highlighting the vulnerability of many developing countries ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ financial and corporate sectors , which had experienced credit booms and borrowed short , and in foreign currencies . countries with large current-account deficits and/or large short-term foreign-currency liabilities were the most fragile . but even better-performing ones – like brazil , russia , indonesia , and chile – are now at risk of a hard landing . many emerging markets are now at risk of a severe financial crisis .
and if a new referendum were to occur , british voters probably would have to decide between an orderly brexit and remaining in the eu , for nobody will dare to offer a hard brexit as the alternative . until recently , a reversal of british voters ’ 2016 brexit decision to leave the eu appeared unlikely . but bercow interventions and eu interventions have opened up an entire new game , dramatically increasing the possibility that brexit might not happen . this would foil financial-market speculators , who were betting on withdrawal and is good news for both the uk and the eu alike . almost three years ago , british voters did not really know what they did when deciding a narrow majority to exit the eu .
beijing – forty years ago this month , china ’s leaders established the country on the path of reform that delivered the most dramatic economic transformation in their country ’s history . mao zedong died two years earlier , in 1976 , and the just-rehabilitated deng xiaoping succeeded in burying his vision of economic development and modernization at the third plenum of the eleventh central committee , held in december 1978 . in the four decades since china transformed itself as an economic powerhouse , portending an equally momentous makeover of the global economy and geopolitics . china ’s reforms began in agriculture , where the crushing burden of state control was relaxed . through the “ dual-track pricing ” mechanism , market incentives for farmers were given market incentives .
jerusalem – owing to misguided american policies , the threat of yet another military confrontation hangs like a dark cloud over the middle east . iran ’s ’ ’ ’ ’ enemies have escalated , and iran , despite being branded itself as a member of the so-called “ “ axis of evil ” concept , has catapulted it to regional hegemony . iran could never accomplish this on its own , certainly not in so short a time . thus , the hitherto latent rivalry between iran and israel has been transformed into an open struggle for middle east dominance . the outcome has been that of some surprising , if not bizarre , alliances : iran , syria , hezbollah , hamas , and american-backed , shia-dominated iraq are confronting israel , saudi arabia , and most other sunni arab states – all of whom feel existentially threatened by iran ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ascendance .
fascination for liberal freedoms came in poland and elsewhere at a strange moment in history . old social structures collapsed ; socialist customs and habits vanished overnight ; former norms and unwritten rules were abandoned . in poland ’s postcommunist social revolution ( less often noted than the political and economic upheavals ) its families and communities were undermined , and ( at least in poland , at least in poland ) were left too engaged in politics to aid . people were left to withstand gales of change on their own . to be free but themselves is not easy , especially where ingrained habits of dependence become .
at the same time , the crisis must not become a pretext to forge novel institutional formats that endanger the delicate balance among different eu institutions , the equilibrium that , via the appropriate adjustments , has proven to be an everyday test . of course , the crisis emphasizes the need to invigorate the eu ’s institutions and instruments for collective action and coordination . we need ultimate , and full ratification of the lisbon treaty in order to have the eu ’s institutionally and internationally stronger european union . nor should today , ’s uncertainties become any excuse for calling into question the need for continued and complete the eu process of enlargement . enlarging the eu ’s place in freedom and democracy , stability and prosperity – particularly throughout south-eastern europe – is in the interest of every europeans .
the commonly cited example of the outgoing government ’s purported economic mismanagement has been its sugar-pricing policy . powerful sugarcane cooperatives , led by prominent mohamed upa ’s supporters , supposedly drove the government to correct extravagant prices , and to write off sugar farmers with ’ bad debts , leading to unhinged manufacturing . instead of eliminating this system , as one would have predicted , modi ’s government has thrown down sugar subsidies to encourage higher output , raised import tariffs in order to discourage foreign competition , and an increase in the sugar-based ethanol , which must fill petrol . his motivations do n’t seem difficult to discern : his bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) hopes that such concessions will help wrest control of maharashtra , india ’s ’s main sugar-producing state , from upa in the upcoming state assembly elections . that goal explains another policy reversal as well .
berlin – germany ’s christian social democrats ( spd ) an existential crisis can no longer treat the country like the typical party crisis . the party has captured a mere 9.7 % of the vote in bavaria ’s regional elections this month , trailing both the populist alternative für deutschland ( afd ) and the greens in the national opinion polls . with another important regional election fast approaching in hesse , polls indicate that the spd will continue to lose more support , if not as dramatically as in bavaria . the spd and the christian democratic , union/christian social union ( cdu/csu ) have stood as the twin pillars of german politics since the end of world war ii . but , with the spd ’s decline , germany is oscillating from a de facto , two-party system , in which no single party plays the dominant role .
while russia alone will not freeze account for a debt freeze , president putin ’s meaning was obvious : it would have been better for all parties if that money were to be brought home and invested in a national economy . to achieve that end , russia needs to forge a secure and attractive investment climate . most important , by reversing capital flight , the government needs to persuade individual savers that they can deposit money safely and pull it up on demand . so , how can the government expect to mobilize domestic investment for as long as ordinary russians maintain their savings -- $ 50 billion , according to most forecasts -- at home ? today ’s people need to be persuaded by the country ’s political stability -- that , for example , no would suggest nationalization repeatedly during the eight months that i was prime minister .
without gorbachev and his singular nerve , the stream of events across europe during the fall of 1989 , was never an option . for with the gorbachev ascendance , more and more people in east germany took heart and stopped being frightened by their repressive regime . realizing that east germans ’ realities were not fixed in stone after all ; that one can achieve change , which many courageous dissidents and civil rights trapped behind the wall demanded for so long , should be achieved . their commitment to the communist regime ’s injustices is to me as one of the finest chapters in german history . opening up hungary ’s borders , which fall and the quest for sanctuary by east germans in prague ’s embassies and warsaw , has already shaken the communist and stasi rule on its foundation .
as a result , some – however relatively speaking , not many – are committing long and often perilous journeys to the developed world . and yet , when arriving at the rich world ’s doorstep , the welcome they receive has become increasingly convoluted , as manufactured panic over a supposedly massive influxes of “ hazardous ” outsiders closes the field for their humane , pragmatic response . responsibility-sharing – the modern international system for protecting refugees – is being replaced with responsibility-shifting , typically onto least-developed countries . the time has come to reboot a global effort to keep refugees safe . what is needed is a comprehensive strategy with a global reach , reflecting a sweeping vision to inspires and engages in governments , aid communities , business , development institutions , civil-society groups , civil-society groups , academia , the arts and arts .
munich – so far , the euro crisis has gone through six phases . it is noteworthy , for it is a price that shows the way in which the policymakers tripped along , trying to throw fires with little regard for where their chosen path led them out . currently , markets remain calm , but this is only the beginning of the seventh phase of a crisis during which europe becomes mired in debt . the sequence so far has been just as follows : each man . the seventh phases of this crisis are one of heightened moral hazard , stemming from greece .
from 1985 to 2005 , boomsters made ten-year projections that exaggerated the chances of large positive shifts in both financial markets ( such as the dow jones industrial average of 36,000 ) and world politics ( such as the “ tranquility of the middle east , ” and dynamic growth in sub-saharan africa ) . assigned probabilities above 65 % to rosy scenarios that materialized just over 15 % of the time . during the same period , doomsters performed even more poorly , exaggerating the odds of negative change in all of the same places where the boomsters accentuate their positive , plus a few more ( i still await the approaching decay of canada , nigeria , nigeria , ecuador , and sudan ) . they assigned probabilities of 70 % to bleak scenarios , which materialized at a mere 12 % . second , again , as skeptics had warned , over-claimers rarely pay sanctions for being wrong .
as a result , the economic challenges of brexit would have been overwhelming . the campaign ’s ’s main economic argument – that britain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s huge trade deficit is a secret weapon – is that the eu would have more to lose than britain from the breakdown of trade relations , is flatly wrong . britain would have had to negotiate access to europe ’s single market for its service industries , whereas eu producers would automatically enjoy a virtually unlimited right to sell whatever they wanted in britain under global trade treaties . margaret thatcher was one of the first to realize that britain ’s specialization in services , not just in finance , but in law , accountancy , media , architecture , pharmaceutical research , and the like , makes eu single market membership critical . it makes little economic difference for germany , france , or italy if britain is an eu member , or simply within the wto .
answering them will require , first and foremost , a debate that transcends issues like separation of powers and judicial independence , and elucidates the appropriate relationship between politics and religion . for that , understanding the historical context of the current crisis is a crucial one . when turkey entered into a democracy in 1950 , the earlier system by hard-line kemalist elites attempted to harness power and army rule to dominate an elected government . in fact , with the backing of the judiciary , the turkish military explicitly intervened in a functioning civilian government , in the 1960 ’s , 1971 , 1980 ’s , and 1997 daily , to protect secularism . in response , various religious groups , including the gülen movement , encouraged their adherents to take positions in the bureaucracy and the military .
berlin – during the long night of negotiations over greece on july 12-13 , something essential to europe ’s nuclear cracked . since then , europeans have lived through another type of eu . what changed was germany , which europeans were aware since the end of world war ii . on the surface , the negotiations were about averting a greek exit from the eurozone ( or a “ grexit ” ) , as well as the dire consequences that would have followed for greece and a monetary union . at a deeper level , however , what was at stake has been the role that europe of its most populous , economically powerful country .
but the rise of arab military coalitions raises grave concerns , not least because arab-led military interventions , in contrast to those conducted by the west in places like bosnia , kosovo , and even libya , contain no promising precedent . typically , such interventions aimed at empowering proxy political forces over their army and political rivals , rather than averting a humanitarian disaster or institutionalizing a nonviolent post-world war ii border resolution mechanism . egypt ’s military intervention in yemen in the 1860s is a case in point . by late 1965 , egyptian president gamel abdel nasser had dispatched 70,000 troops in yemen to advocate a republican coup against royalist forces . despite using banned chemical weapons against yemeni guerillas from 1963 to 1967 , a first parallel arab conflict , egypt failed its goals .
the reform process was led by oecd countries , opening up behind developing countries until this initial package was established . today , there are 125 countries , forming a group called the “ “ inclusive ” framework . no doubt , beps have been an important step toward tackling some of the most egregious taxavoidance strategies employed by multinational companies . it has begun , for example , sharing among country-by-country corporate-tax authorities ’ ’ profits and tax payouts . unfortunately , however , this norm will apply only to very large multinational corporations , and news does n’t become publicly available , depriving civil society of an essential tool of transparency .
and even eliminating the accelerated depreciation would not broaden the tax base sufficiently to finance a rate cut to about 28 % . likewise , while limiting the tax cuts on net interest to corporations , as they have done in so many other developed countries , would broaden the tax base , and discourage excessive reliance on debt finance , this would actually increase the tax burden on major physical capital , which is often debt-financed . reducing the tax preferences of noncorporate entrepreneurial entities ( like partnerships ) that pass their revenue through owners ’ eu-based individual returns would also broaden the scope for a corporate-income tax . the pass-through firms now account for over 80 % of net entrepreneurial incomes ( by far the top share among advanced countries ) . several of these players are extremely large and profitable , and enjoy the same legal advantages as corporations .
israel ’s disengagement plan has presents syria ’s evacuation of gaza ’s settlements as an end to 37 years of occupation . at the same time , however , israel insists that gaza will have no attributes of sovereignty , and will continue to be guided by current arrangements , covering most aspects of its security and civilian administration . that means that an israeli army will once again enter gaza and maintain its control over border crossings , airspace , and territorial waters . nor will the israeli army withdraw from the land strip along palestinian-egyptian border areas . these conditions dominate the possibility of forging a security plan that would receive the support of all warring factions , including hamas .
nearly 60 years later , agricultural employment in america peaked at 53 % of total employment . today , it is less than 3 % of gdp , on average . in fact , as recently as the 1980 ’s , most oecd countries experienced large declines in agricultural employment . in some , such as portugal , malaysia , latvia , and indonesia , the proportion of agricultural employment has declined by over 20 % . in others , such as greece , italy , bulgaria , hungary , slovakia , the philippines and sri lanka , the decline exceeded 10 % .
islamabad – as pakistan gears up for its parliamentary election on february 18 , many observers are hoping that the vote will usher in a period of stability and calm by borrowing popular legitimacy for the government . occasionally , however , a democracy works in the best way forward by refusing to take part . the upcoming elections , to be held under the illegal interim constitutional bureau ( pco ) , implemented following president pervez musharraf ’s imposition of a snap general on november 3 , are just such a case , which is one reason why my party and its coalition partners are boycotting the vote . to be sure , the election would provide a major opportunity for my own party to take issue issues to the popular vote . in fact , my party ’s backing has been steadily increasing , with opinion polls now indicating that it is the second most popular at frontier province and is gaining ground in every other province .
and it is a good deal for the official sector to pay more attention to joblessness . yet , sadly , this shift will not address an issue that devats away at the societal fabric of any society . just as bernanke and others may want otherwise , and as bickering politicians seek to dump policy responsibilities on others , central banks have no proper tools with which to deal with the component of an unemployment crisis that results from insufficient educational investment , skills training , and physical capital . likewise , they can not repair debt overhangs , correct indoor financing , or cope with medium-term fiscal-reform challenges on their own . the best that central banks can do is to buy time , albeit at rising expense , for other policymaking entities to get their act together .
in fact , it is china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s dam builders that flows out of chinese territory . most of china ’s internationally shared water resources are located on the tibetan plateau , which annexed early in the 1950s . unsurprisingly , the plateau is china ’s new “ dam construction hub . ” indeed , china ’s 13th five-year plan , released earlier this year , is calling for a novel wave of its plateau ’s dam projects . moreover , china has recently slashed its tributary river from the brahmaputra river , bangladesh ’s lifeline , and northern india , to build a dam as an integral hydroelectric project in tibet .
washington , dc – ten years after the failure of lehman brothers , we have known that multilateral action was critical in preventing the so-called great recession from becoming even worse than it was in the first place . back then , it was the global financial system that was tottering at the time . today , it is the global trading system that goes on in the jeopardy . over the last 70 years , multilateralism served the world well . much to its credit , the united states eschewed and reparations after world war ii .
as attendance moved up , schools were multiplying as the attendance shifted . other public services were improving as well , and parents came to believe that their children would lead a more prosperous life than they and previous generations had in the past . this was certainly true of my parents , who made a great sacrifices to raise their nine children . they were not pleased when , until the age of 1970s , their elderly sons turned out to be communists , profoundly opposing hafez al-assad ’s brutal regime , president bashar al-assad ’s father . but this was not a farfetched transformation in a town where people assumed that new identities , such as the nasserist , a ba’athist , islamist , or communist – downplay their regional and tribal origins .
this results from high turnover , owing to overwork and the increased need for foreign-born health-care professionals to fill sorely needed positions . gcc policymakers have been correct in focusing on increasing access and subsidies for quality medical care . but the equitable distribution of health-care services across the native-born and migrant populations often raises a thorny policy question . and now , policymakers must devote more attention to the health sector itself , ensuring that it is well educated and trained to apply education and challenges to the region . training gcc national health systems today does not focus nearly enough on innovation or systems thinking to improve efficiency and effectiveness .
if the army collapses , it is algeria [ and ] france that collapses . a decisive moment came when de gaulle , in a military uniform focus , went on television to demonstrate his new medium ’s mastery . “ well , dear , and old country ” here , again , we face a hard test , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” he said . insisting that self-determination was the only way forward , calling on an army to reject even a passive association with an insurrection and mandate it to reestablish public order . if the state eschewed before the challenge it faces , “ france ” would be no more than a pathetic , a broken toy on an ocean of uncertainty , ” he warned .
just when the world has reached a consensus that ahmadinejad is just an instrument among supreme leader ayatollah khamenei , ahmadinejad has appointed a vice president against khamenei ’s ’s wishes ( even though he later rolled out the appointment ) . what we do know with certainty is that the regime is divided . these divisions will enable the new powers to emerge from iranian society to change . so , all means , should be found to reach beyond iranian society . iranian students should be encouraged to visit and study in asian universities to discover how confident that young chinese and indian students are about the future − which may well cause them to reflect on why young iranians are not sharing that optimism .
how , then , can one distinguish the contribution of light infantry against supplying critical scams like helicopter or airborne refueling tankers ? over what time , does you produce your own calculations ? common finance , with all of our members paying a share in accordance with their gdp , is one tool with which we can channel more toward equitable burden-sharing . traditionally , nato has invoked a policy of “ costs lie where they fall ” : each member chooses all the costs to the operational contribution it has made to alliance operations . during the last few years , nato ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s funding policy has been updated to permit common funding as an incentive to provide some theater-level capabilities , such as medical facilities , airports handling soldiers and stores or intelligence .
furthermore , one might argue that easy money itself has contributed to the unexpectedly powerful disinflationary forces seen in recent years . because of easy financing and regulatory forbearance , aggregate supply has risen as “ zombie state-owned ” firms proliferated . meanwhile , aggregate demand has been constrained by debt headwinds , yet another consequence of easy monetary conditions . given such conditions , continuing to insist on monetary easing seems particularly nefarious . with so many potential dangers on the horizon , central bankers should at least contemplate the structuralist assumptions underlying their policies .
thus , among the wrong set of options , the least bad seems to be working together in cooperation with america . yet cooperation with america may not get the al-sauds much , because saudi relations with america are being strained by a breaking point . there were no sooner when the terrorist attacks on new york and washington last year that the regime — once central to america ’s own strategic interests in the region -- was made to feel dispensable by america , which slips powerful hints that alternatives to saudi military bases are in place , even to saudi oil . though the saudis were not included in president bush ’s “ axis of evil , ” ” ” some american policymakers now view the country as a “ kernel of evil . ” al-qaeda ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s terrorist net is perceived as arising squarely from fundamentalist wahhabi doctrines , which constitute an integral part of the saudi regime .
how victims remember trauma is the most controversial theme facing psychology and psychiatry today . many clinical trauma theorists believe that battling , rape and other terrifying experience are supposedly engraved on the mind , never to be forgotten . others disagree , arguing that the mind may protect themselves by banishing memories of trauma , making it harder for victims to remember their most horrific experiences until they can be made safe to do so many years later . while acknowledging that trauma is often all excessively memorable , these certain kinds of clinical trauma theorists assert that a condition known as “ traumatic dissociative amnesia ” leaves huge forces unable to recall their convoluted , precisely because it was so overwhelmingly terrifying . nevertheless , such clinical trauma theorists argue that “ repressed , ” or “ “ dissociated ” memories of horrific events are either inert or benevolent .
in calcutta , when some younger kid arrived , insisting that he would get into joining the play that my friends had been playing , we would have let the new kid in the job , but not until whispers of each other ’s ears , elé belé . an elé belé is a game-changer that he thinks he is participating but , in truth , merely skilling off the motions . everybody knew that the goal scored was not a true objective . like a child , mastering elé ’s brutal art was an important factor . when a new kid arrived with a doting mother , we could convey to one of the time with the mere glimpses that a kid would be an elé belé belé .
the financial times stock exchanges all-world indices rose by almost 22 % year on year in may 2017 – its best performance since the post-crisis rebound of 2009 . as growth pessimism over the past few years fades , some of the tradeoffs that have played out in recent years seem to have become outdated . northwestern university ’s robert gordon has , for example , argued that america ’s economy is bound to be slowing down , because today , ’s technological innovations will not boost growth until they have run its course in the past . harvard business leaders have received much attention in his argument that the world risks backsliding toward “ secular stagnation , ” ” ” because the interest rates needed to bring desired investment along desired savings are below zero . still , while the zero lower bound no longer seems like a binding constraint , there is potential causes for worry , one concerning debt levels .
in fact , china has been tearing apart most of the international rivers that are flowing out of tibet , whose fragile ecosystem is already under threat from global warming . so far , the only hydro-engineering rivers that have gone into effect are indus , whose basin falls mostly in india and pakistan and the salween that flows into burma and thailand . nonetheless , local authorities in yunnan province are considering a damming on a quake-prone upstream region . india ’s government has been pressing china for transparency , more hydrological data-sharing , and a commitment not to redirect the nature of any rivers or diminishing cross-border waters . but even a joint expert-level mechanism , established in 2007 merely to “ interact and cooperate ” on hydrological data , has demonstrated little or no value .
perhaps , but most students of loose monetary policy view quantitative easing as textbook policies for pulling an economy out of a zero-interest-rate “ liquidity trap , ” as well as preventing the onset of continued deflation that would worsen the debt burden . as for the renminbi , a highly political exchange-rate regime continues to be underpinned by a very political exchange-rate regime . in the end , china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s rapid rise will have to reflect a sharp rise in its currency , its domestic price level , or both . but , by 2011 , most equilibration is likely to occur through inflation . finally , currency chaos is everyone ’s safest choice , with sharp and unforeseeable swings in floating exchange rates all over the world .
without such cooperation , china ’s aspirations would be constrained solely by domestic factors , like faltering economies , rising social discontent , worsening environmental crises , or vicious politics . which countries should take the lead in constraining china ’s “ revisionist ” ambitions ? with an america distracted by other strategic challenges , not to mention its home presidential campaign , asia ’s other powers , particularly economically surging india and a more politically assertive japan , are among the best jobs candidates . both india and japan are longstanding stakeholders in emphasizing each other ’s own international connections the values america espouses , such as the need to maintain a stable balance of power ; respect for its territorial and maritime status quo ; and maintain freedom of navigation . moreover , they have shown a shared desire to uphold an incumbent asian order .
at the same time , developed countries should fulfill their obligations , under the convention , to provide financial support and technology transfer to enable developing countries to address climate change effectively . furthermore , adequate mechanisms and institutional arrangements should be established for adaptation , financial support , and technology transfer . for developing countries , as well as for sustainable development , and with measurable , reportable and verifiable encouragement of finance , technology and capacity-building , takes nationally appropriate mitigation actions . to be sure , the global financial crisis has exacerbated the climate-change challenge . but , given that climate change poses an even more far-reaching – and significant – challenge , the world must not waver in its design and commitment to addressing it .
florence – earlier this month , jim yong kim abruptly resigned from his post as world bank chair , leaving behind a pillar of the rules-based international financial order with no guidance or direction . kim joins a privately funded firm where he believes that he can “ make the biggest impact on major global issues like climate change . ” following his targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
an <UNK> ter-money version would be the ecb ’s purchases of zero-interest-rate government bonds , which do n’t get paid back on their feet , either because they are perpetual bonds , or because they are rolled over any time they have mature . that is , no doubt , what the bank of japan is now doing . boj governor haruhiko kuroda has indeed said that directly underwrite a budget deficit is no option . nonetheless , he has launched a policy of replacing government bonds on the boj ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s balance sheet once they have been mature , while steadily increasing the volume of government debt on the central bank ’s books . this comes after years of pronouncements by prominent economists , including berkeley ’s brad delong and former american federal reserve chair ben bernanke , that helicopter money provides a route to overcome deflation ( with which japan has been struggling for decades ) .
starting in the summer of 2015 , trump embraced extremist rhetoric appealing to nativism , islamophobia , and rage for gop elites . media outlets provided as much as $ 2 billion dollars in free coverage , acceding to him and staying at the head in the polls and much else . trump ’s core supporters are wrongly thought to have been displaced and economically insecure blue-collar workers . indeed , his voters , ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ average annual income of around $ 72,000 , is well above america ’s median of $ 56,000 . his supporters resemble tea partiers : a overwhelmingly older , male , middle class , and the white house .
once , a gang of people is viewed as disgusting , attention shifts away from them as moral guys . they become soulless bodies , the moral ring closes in trying to exclude them . our reactions to soulless bodies illustrates well in a story telling about descartes once he died . it was well known that descartes had an illegitimate daughter , francine , who died when she had just five years old . according to the story , descartes had so caught with grief that it created an automaton , a mechanical doll , built up to her dead daughter .
the terrorist attacks in istanbul , however , are unlikely to generate a cogent reaction in the service of curtailing democratic rights . indeed , if al-qaeda boiled over the attacks , it grossly miscalculated it . prime minister recep tayyip erdogan ’s reaction has summarized turkish sentiment : “ these bombs aim to destroy our country ’s peace and stability . we will not change our course ; we will seek to use our power . if those bombings are intended for sending a message , i sweep it off and crush it under the feet . ”
nonetheless , khamenei ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s invocation of the law echoes the demands of many of the conservative-pragmatists , who lean towards mousavi , who is out of step to challenge khamenei ’s authority directly . mousavi has to go carefully into the legal campaign without compromising the trust that he has acquired from iranians ’ majority . he has to stand by his two principal demands : the nullification of an impartial committee to rule over the government ’s violation of an electoral law . was to persuade khamenei to reconsider his position , a supreme leader , ’s hold on power , would shudder at the top . if khamenei holds fast , mousavi can not secure the presidency , but would continue to represent the hopes among the iranians ’ majority , who differ dramatically with his administration .
at the same time , there is something an even more fundamental difference than a single ’s reputation . a political leader does have greater opportunities than almost anyone else to assist people , and this was to be yanukovych ’s top priority . but , even if yanukovych thought primarily about his own interests , his quest for personal enrichment was irrational . imagine that he had stopped asking himself what would make him happier . imagine , with that question , that he compared the alternative to a lavish lifestyles ( with a private zoo and pirate-ship ) with the willy living comfortably paying for the sizeable salaries that he believes , while knowing that he was exchanging integrity and doing his best to improve ukraine ’s lives .
north korea , for its part , has been far less hopeful about its intentions to act . it remains to be seen whether it seeks to involve the rest of the world in a constructive , sustained way , or whether dprk officials and diplomats merely pounce on a good face to deflect international attention from their country ’s reputation as a nuclear-weapons-monger and human-rights violator . indeed , a visit to incheon comes as part of blended messages . two days before the north korean delegation arrived , a committee on the peaceful reunification of korea ( cprk ) officially forms a part of the korean workers ’ party , denounced the “ south korean puppet ” powers in a way of serious violation of north-south joint pronouncements and pushing north-south bond ties to the worst disaster . on the day of incheon visit , north korean ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s state of representatives continued bellicose and derogatory language toward south korea and the us : “ lurking behind this ” is the us ’s ulterior design to [ prod more of this to [ prod , ] zealously the south korean puppet forces in an bid to strain the extreme pitch and [ a second korean war .
when an idea is both an inintuitive , and in reality a false way , it is often because it is true on the one level but not on the level at which it is being applied . yes , people do specialize and should specialize , too . everyone benefits from each of us becoming good on different matters , exchanging our knowhow with others . it is not efficient for a dentist and an attorney . but individual specialization , in fact , actually leads to greater diversification .
gene-drive organisms are intended to spread indefinitely , and mosquitos , particularly females , can surf air currents at relatively lofty altitudes ( 40-290 meters or 131-951 feet ) , where winds can blow them hundreds of miles . that means that consent would have to be secured meaningfully beyond the release point.subscribe nowh4 { text-align : center ; center ; } for limited time only to get unlimited access toon point ; the big picture ; and the ps archive plus our annual journal plus our annual journal for just $ 75 subscribeyet ; in the village of nasso ; authorities tell us that , despite the targets of malaria , they still questions about the mosquito . likewise , civil-society groups operating in and around the test-site villages have not been given sufficient consultation about target malaria ’s work.the more interviews i conducted , the clearer it became that local people had not been engaged in any genuinely participatory debate about the target malaria project , much less extended their informed consent . by contrast , a few people that i interviewed called for the experimental release of genetically modified mosquitos to be stopped until the risks and effects had been adequately investigated ; and civil society across burkina faso had been fully informed.target malaria ’s lack of commitment to consent is reflected in its own rhetoric , that eschews the willy “ word of engagement , ” but regularly uses terms like engagement and community acceptance . that choice can indicate that the organization ’s leaders have already resolved to move ahead with a re-lease. 
many more have simply become discouraged and dropped out of the labor force altogether : not at school , rather than at work , rather than looking for work . they are not much to protest , but many end up in jail . so the world ’s ’s labor markets today are interconnected , with no new focus on education and training . young people in countries as diverse as egypt and the us find themselves in influence from youthful chinese and indians for jobs . china ’s low-paid , reasonably productive manufacturing workers , and high-quality infrastructure ( roads , power , ports , and communication ) have established the standard for competitiveness globally .
article 7 of the lisbon treaty stipulates the suspension of a rogue eu member state ’s voting rights . but , because this “ nuclear option ” requires absolute voting by all the eu ’s eu member states , all of whom recognize would never apply . in fact , article 7 is such an inefficient deterrent that it serves rule-of-law interests , by all but guaranteeing them not to punish . orbán has been scamming the eu for years , spurring other populists to pursue their own authoritarian goals , as well as eu funds to boot . but weakening the rule of law is not only domestic in hungary or poland .
in iraq once again , bush pursued a unilateralist agenda in iraq stated that there was incontrovertible evidence of a al queda 's link and that saddam possessed weapons of mass destruction . even before the invasion , there was overwhelming evidence that bush lay . detection technology made it clear that there was no nuclear weapons in iraq , as the chief un inspector hans blix pointed out . it is possible that bush read these messages but that they were beyond his command of mind . it is also possible that he did n't have any confidence what he would read .
all of these groups are driven by a nihilistic rage , born of hostility toward non-sunnis and a rejection of modernity . sadly , as the bombings of sri lanka and others in asia demonstrate , defeating isis in syria and iraq have only intensified the challenge of terrorism , with the battle-hardened combatants with operating training to stage savage attacks now back home . the presence of such returnees in sri lanka explains how to obscure the local team has been capable of conducting sophisticated , on-line incidents in three churches and three hotels , using military-grade explosives . returnees are present in many other asian countries in as well , ranging from the philippines and indonesia to the maldives and uzbekistan . much like osama bin laden and other al-qaeda leaders who slice their teeth in a us-backed war against the soviet occupation of afghanistan , this new generation of jihadist veterans could haunt asia ’s security , the middle east , and the west for years to come .
denver – the angelina jolie ’s novel film , “ in the land of blood and honey , ” about the kind of ethnic tensions that have produced europe ’s bloodiest conflict since the end of world war ii . the film has already won two awards , and it is emerging box-office successes , attesting to enduring interests – and perhaps mystery – that the balkan countries are standing for the international audiences that were bemused as terrifying as they were bemused by events in the 1990s . to those of us who were living and working in the region during that turbulent decade , post-yugoslav wars remain fresh blows . as jolie ’s movie so flagrantly demonstrates , none of the international community or local leaders has made a concerted effort to avert bloodshed . one notable exception – perhaps the one exception – was kiny gligorov , the president of macedonia , who died while sleeping on new year at an age of 94 .
there is evidence of falling foreign investment , and this contributes to the economy ’s disappointing levels of investment overall . furthermore , this trend accentuates the challenges associated with weak productivity growth . at the same time , there are signs that uk-based firms have begun to set off their brexit contingency planning after prolonged periods of waiting , planning , and more waiting . apart from shifting investment away from the brics , firms will also start relocating employment . and that process is likely to accelerate even if british prime minister theresa may manages to secure her proposed exit deal through parliament .
he advocates local decision-making on the ground whenever possible and efficient , but also supports domestic and european-level decision-making , where this would be fitting ; the key is that processes should be flexible and allow citigroup to participate . he recognizes that shared sovereignty makes europe a more influential , and thereby empowering its own citizens . and he views globalization as a good thing ; but he also recognizes that it has to be managed through a durable , efficient international covenant and institutions . currently , opinion polls are bouncing fiercely , owing to fillon ’s scandal and the surge in hamlet among left-wing voters outside of the socialist party . yet if macron qualifies as the second-round run-off , he would pose a bigger threat to le pen than a outright left candidate would do .
the european project has been a realist reaction to globalization and its challenges . it has started to create “ solidarités de fait accompli , ” promoting political stability and consolidating democracy and the european social model . having achieved such goals , europe now wants to make a positive contribution to world developments . this , in fact , is not a form of nostalgia for the past glory . an unprecedented degree of form of solidarity now exists across europe as was apparent in a form of collective mourning and a outpouring of compassion toward spain ; we must build upon that enormous potential to shape the narrative of global solidarity .
for starters , there is his answer to queen elizabeth ii ’s now-famous question : “ why did n’t one see it coming ? ” krugman ’s cheerful response is that the new keynesians looked the other way . theirs was a failure not of theory , but of “ data collection . ” they had “ overlooked , ” decisive institutional changes in the financial system . while this was regrettable , it raised no “ deep conceptual ” issue to ” that is , it did n’t demand that they reframe their theory .
the same can not be said for kaczyński.another central divide is that eastern europeans tend to hold more materialist attitudes than people , who moved beyond concerns about physical security to embrace what the sociologist ronald inglehart calls post-materialist values . one aspect of this distinction is that east european societies are more vulnerable to attack on abstract liberal institutions like freedom of speech , and the rule of law independence.this should n’t be too surprising . after all , today ’s liberalism is a western import . notwithstanding trump and the brexit phenomena , america and the united kingdom have deeply embedded the cultures of political and social liberalism . in eastern europe , civil society is not only weaker ; it is also much more focused on areas like charity , religion , and leisure , rather than a policy issues.moreover , in a vastly different political landscape of europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s postcommunist states , the left is either very weak or utterly absent from the political mainstream .
that , however , is a big “ “ “ if one is it . ” as for the eurozone , we appear to have been overly optimistic , despite foresaw a decline in potential growth to just 1.5 % . nowadays , most forecasters have placed the region ’s growth potential at about 1 % . if germany can not shift to a more domestic-demand-driven , consumption-driven growth model , that projection will probably turn out to be right . yet , while the majority of print coverage has focused on germany ’s falling export - and manufacturing-led output , the country ’s service sector remains robust .
the magnitude of these remittances , however , would depend on the eu ’s own financial policies at the time of admission , the outcome of the accession negotiations , and the economic upheaval in turkey . in each case , the eu ’s practice of “ capping ” its budget would prevent the exploding financial costs entailed by turkey ’s accession process . in fact , immigration should not become a cause of undue concern , either . human mobility is limited , and turkey ’s workforce would probably be allowed to move freely within the eu only after a long period of transition , perhaps not earlier , in 2025 . given the predicted upswing in turkey ’s economy , and its falling birthrates , experts predict about 2.7 million migrants by that point .
more than most people realize , gospels treat recalcitrant jews – those that refused to accept jesus as their messiah -- as the culprits of an assault on every generation life . indeed , anti-semites often cite a passage in matthew , in which a jewish mob cheers against christ ’s execution and voluntarily embraces perpetual guilt : “ his blood goes to us and our children . ” matthew then attributes to jews a recurrent lie to explain the resurrection and disappearance of the jesus ’s body : “ his disciples came at night and trumpian fashion while the us slept . ” the later evangelist john concludes that , because jews deny the christian messiah that they have to be “ devil ’s sons . ” just as whites attribute the extraordinary sex powers to blacks , the christian west ’s instinct is to treat jews as their masters of extraordinary powers -- including the powers to slain – including the slain ( and command-and-control of world finance . )
but , with excessively much macho , too subject to policy and provincialism , the reform never happened . so the notion that “ this country is different , ” ” ” ” ” ” that the rules of global finance did not apply , turned into utter failure . by the time of crisis , thailand seemed to be looking like all of the others ones turning in the desperation to the imf . thailand ’s decision last may to cut interest rates made it a safe gamble that they should bet on shat , opening salvo in a crisis . emboldened by the illusion of its robust reserve position , the thai central bank took on the speculators – and lost .
it was not least because of efforts by the protest movements that france now make concessions on on on both counts . but how can those concessions be made under a duress ? that is the task at which non-governmental organizations and protest movements are not well equipped : they can arouse public conscience but can not be formally committed to governments . it is up to only other governments that can do that . hence the effort to take nail down the offered by the protests , the hour of governments arrived .
compounding the challenge , the cohorts of previously informed elites in russia are rising . as the leading russian propagandist dmitry kiselev recently acknowledged , “ higher learning in the humanities ( and the social sciences ) breeds social strife . not surprisingly , he complained that far too many ” ” russians are studying those subjects . in fact , even russia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s majority will not become well-informed overnight . but , just as the regime is being forced to dedicate more resources to silencing the informed , majorities will suffer economics .
london – officials at the people ’s bank of china ( pboc ) have long insisted that “ china will n’t ease the renminbi . ” and yet , implicit in their promise to prevent a currency from being manipulated for strategic ends is their capacity to do so , if that is necessary . to encourage china ’s currency , china has come to the fore now that us president donald trump has imposed import tariffs on a wide range of chinese goods . many are wondering whether china will respond to trump ’s current trade war by threatening a currency war with the us . if it does , the world should be calling its bluff .
aside from contributing to the size and productivity of the labor force , migrants , too , often complement native-born skills , can help them earn more . my professional focus is on economics , so that i stressed the role of growth . but that clearly is not the only factor behind the rise of populist nationalism . enabling developed countries to adjust culturally as well , perhaps even more so . in america , for example , foreign-born share of the us population has swung from roughly 5 % in 1960 to around 14 % today .
this shift , in turn , clears the path for a generational change of leadership – and , even more important , a transition to the post-oslo politics of the post-oslo era . the plo ’s ’s old guard – men like yasser arafat and abbas who led the liberation organization from exile and returned home to the oslo accords – has dominated the palestinian political landscape up to now . after they deviate from the scenes , palestinian leaders who were born under occupation and spent time on israeli prisons will most likely fill that vacuum . the most prominent such figure is marwan barghouti , the leader of the birzeit university student movement in the 1980 ’s and one of the leading organizers of the first intifada , which resulted in his deportation by israel at the end of the 1980 ’s . ortega was arrested and sentenced to a long prison term on charges that he led a second intifada that began two years earlier and ordered some of his military assault .
these are the key ingredients in a nationalist scattering that appears to appeal to russia nowadays . judging by putin ’s most recent address to parliament , his regime is keenly aware of the dangers it poses to populist nationalists . it is likely that the regime will attempt to counter this eruption of nationalism , while maintaining its powerful statist rhetoric . but , in defeating the far right , putin ’s regime will be forced to take its stand on more or less liberal ideological grounds . that will not be easy for an inclusive regime based on entirely twin pillars of the bureaucracy and the security apparatus .
in taiwan itself , tsai is equally committed . last year , in responding to public opposition to nuclear energy in the wake of japan ’s 2011 fukushima meltdown , tsai vowed to make taiwan a nuclear-free by 2025 . today , her coal and natural gas provides more than two-thirds of the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s electricity needs , with renewables accounting for 5 % . tsai has challenged the renewables share to rise to 20 % over the next eight years , with capacity coming mainly from solar and offshore headwinds . this new load would easily replace the coal-fired power generated by a country ’s six nuclear reactors .
as the production of these fuels grows , we will take for policies , programs , and capacities to ensure that they are used sustainably , without distortion to food markets , or compromising food security that will always be the first priority . the pioneers of biofuels would probably be surprised by how little , if anything , will contribute to total global fuel supply today . rudolf diesel ’s first engine , intended in its late 1800s , ran on fuel-derived fuel . henry ford once ruffted florida from buying tracts of land toward sugarcane , convinced that the united states would not tolerate pollution from burning fossil fuels , or the dependency implicit in absorbing oil in order to produce gasoline . in recent decades alone , biofuels regained their initial appeal , owing to efforts to secure affordable energy , generate revenues , and alleviate the dependency that ford warned .
many britons believed in a “ free trade empire ” of their own kind . others fanned the flames of anglo-german antagonism , caricaturing , protectionist germany as a barbarian surviving on mount sausages and dog-meat ; lloyd george , a future prime minister , told audiences more fearful of german sausage than he was of a german navy . one reason that freer trade defeated protectionism in britain a century ago was that its supporters appealed to people ’s emotions and identities , rather than merely their rational interest in ever more wealth and cheap food . the liberals and the radicals organized their trip illustrate , color of posters and political amusement . in towns , displays in shop windows illustrated the cost of tariffs to ordinary consumers .
the inordinately lax regulatory environment has proved lethal , spurring north european banks to pad their balance sheets with southern european governments and bank bonds . when this bubble burst , it left in its wake the woefully expensive economies that lost competitiveness . europe should now exploit the calm among numerous storm fronts in order to rethink europe ’s currency from the ground up . the drive to establish the european equivalent of the us dollar and to impose a fiscal union atop it , despite the absence of a common european state , is bound to fail . it turns member countries into debtors and creditors to one another , stoking even more animosity .
indeed , the latter are now standing at over 15 % of gdp . hits chinese exports are likely to take on as a result of the region ’s currency depreciations are , to be sure , unlikely to become a matter of immediate feeling . rival asian economies will be needed before they can push their exports aggressively . moreover , inflation in some asean countries may rise with floating exchange rates . because of this , their exports ’ price competitiveness may be lessened .
moreover , there are genuine disagreements within america ’s bureaucracy when it comes to assessing the threat that al qaeda in mali poses for america ’s own interests . following thus far , it has both the operational and symbolic significance that lies ahead . operationally , it is confined to isr and does not involve ground forces . symbolically , it implies backing the initial , significant efforts undertaken by others . for europe , that situation is worrying on two counts .
the private sector held large foreign assets , while the government held about equal levels of its foreign liabilities . even so , argentina went bankrupt because the affluent argentines spirited their assets out of the country and thus out of its own government , whereas poor argentines refused to pay the taxes they needed to satisfy foreign creditors ’ claims . by contrast , when a country ’s foreign assets are held not by households , but by institutions like pension funds can be identified and taxed . that is mostly the case in europe . such analysis suggests that the excessive [ current-account ] imbalances that are to be introduced under ongoing eurozone governance goes in the right direction .
disappointed by their political masters , algerians , ’ unity is stemmed largely from their shared love of soccer . barcelona ’s stars , real madrid , chile , and milan are household names . but exposure to foreign-tv stations also implies that many disillusioned algerians are looking for flight to italy , france , or germany as their sole hope of a job and a decent living life . so will the coming months bring genuine change to algeria ? will social and economic reforms that are needed to ensure the equitable distribution of the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s oil and gas riches ?
lower interest rates worked , but not so much because they boosted investment , but because it led households to refinance their own mortgages and fueled a housing-price bubble . in short , as greenspan disparts , he leaves behind a soaring american economy and government-burdened debt and fragile balance sheets – a legacy that is already contributing to global financial instability . still , it is far from clear what led greenspan to endorse a tax cut . was this massive economic missteps , or was he currying favor with the bush administration ? the most likely explanation comes from the latter ; for he and bush pursued the same “ starve the beast ” the political strategy that calls for tax cuts to rein in revenues , thereby forcing the public sector to get downsized .
ethiopia is hardly the only recent examples of how conflict-related conflicts over land rights can set the stage for political and humanitarian crises . competition for arable land has contributed to the rwandan genocide in 1994 . an historic drought may have created the conditions for syria ’s civil war . and food insecurity stemming from land mismanagement has been an important factor driving migrants into europe . land-related issues will continue to undermine global stability , especially as the effects of climate change worsen existing problems .
because they will lead far more carbon-intensive lifestyles than everybody else , they would contribute far more per capita income to a carbon dividend . more to the point , they would pay off far more than they get back , while the poorest 60 % of americans would earn more than they put in . in short , a carbon dividend would distribute money from predominantly affluent high polluters to predominantly low – and middle-income low-paying polluters , all while simultaneously reducing carbon emissions . on their own , this would represent a smart step in the right direction , one that would not even invite the “ yellow vest ” ” reaction . but let ’s not tell you as a silver bullet .
a further lesson for sarkozy from germany is that an enlightened corporate-finance state needs the support of political leadership just as a accommodating trade union . german chancellor angela merkel does not make any speeches by attacking a strong euro and the european central bank ’s price stability mandate . on the contrary , she supports an independent ecb , and has allowed germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s trade unions and companies to know that they will have to live , with a strong currency and an anemic monetary policy . this does not mean that merkel is a free-market capitalist , with little evidence for this . rather , she simply understands that for an economy in need of permanent competition , bad-mouthing europe and the ecb are sending the wrong signals .
because of its geopolitical weight , germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s perspective is now synonymous with that of the european union . and the eu ’s outlook is n’t that of a hegemon ; rather , it is anxiety about the rule of law , integration , and the peaceful reconciliation of member states ’ primacy . germany ’s location alone makes nationalism a poor idea ; and , beyond that , its most fundamental political and economic interests depend on a robust , prosperous eu , particularly in trump ’s age . germany is in the same boat as all other europeans with respect to security . just as no french security can exist without germany , there can be no german security without poland .
the same applies to antidepressants , for example . there is no quarrel , which ect can lead to short-term memory loss . but critics have found it difficult to demonize or any other cognitive problem that endure beyond three months . nor can ect enduring autobiographical reminders disturbances and their inability to remember lists readily available to ect as ect is rarely given to themselves . indeed , very few of those who do receive ect also get ect do n’t receive benzodiazepines that develop significant autobiographical memory problems when , say , and antipsychotic drugs that inflict difficulty on linguistic or phone lists , and other comparable problems .
if they had been , there would have been no need for a domestic bankruptcy law that spells out issues that are like precedence and fair treatment . but no us government has found adequate cacs to settle domestic restructurings . so , why should the us believe that it would suffice in an far more complex world of sovereign-debt restructurings ? cacs , in particular , suffer from a “ aggregation ” problem . if a cac demanded , say , about 75 % of all holders of every bond class , the vultures could buy 26 % of only one bond class , enforcing an entire restructuring .
the eu should reinforce the case for open-ended dialogue and tough bargaining , precisely what it has long lacked on western policy to contain ukraine ’s crisis and toward the entirety of the post-soviet eurasian region . we have arrived at this point precisely because both russia and the west had spent over a decade seeking unilateral advantages and eschewing negotiated compromises . holding talks in the current atmosphere of mistrust , peer recrimination , and fearmongering will require substantial political capital investment for sustained periods . moving beyond current , adversarial approaches to finding common ground will take time . at some point , a quick deal will not be possible .
but it also represents the global gold standard during a number of fields , including technology , defense and research and development . contrary to china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s statist statist experience , america ’s ’s historical experience instilled in its citizens and leaders ’ devotion to liberty , including free markets and local autonomy . america ’s federal government ’s size and power grew only very slowly until the 1930s , when a new deal comprising federal programs , public works projects , and economic-reform and regulations to follow the great depression . america ’s federal government expanded its way further during and after wwii , reflecting the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s new global hegemony , and prosperity for its middle class ( created in no small part by a new deal ’s support for unionization and home ownership ) . the government assumed a larger role in areas ranging from defense and foreign policy to health care and
the precise number of european fighters who received training from isis and returned home remains unknown . abdelhamid abaaoud , who led the november 2015 paris attacks , has claimed that it is one of the 90 isis-trained “ terrorist ” in europe . isis has reportedly trained 400-600 freelancers for external operations ” involving city guerrilla warfare , improvised explosive devices ( ieds ) , surveillance , counter-security , and forgery . isis has so far hit france and turkey hardest . france has endured over 230 deaths and some 700 injured , while turkey endured more than 220 fatalities and around 900 injured .
to account for learning crises in much of the developing world , governments and development agencies should look for increased opportunities to form strategic partnerships with non-state providers . in bangladesh , for example , brac schools employ female teachers ( which hold the key to increasing girls ’ enrollment ) and outperform government-run schools in terms of learning outcomes . fortunately , the afghan government has started to open its doors to innovative ngo models like brac ’s community-based education program . but the lack of skilled female teachers makes scaling up such efforts hard to impossible . women account for just one third of all afghan primary and secondary school teachers , thanks in part to extraordinarily low rates of female literacy .
these economic aftershocks have exposed each country ’s own sectarian-based political system ’s vast costs . and protesters , fueled by economic grievances , were emboldened by improved accountability in broader security conditions , owing to the defeat by the islamic state and the congo ’s wind-down war in syria . in all four of these countries , the severity of economic mismanagement reflects their long-standing use of state expenditures to fund the regime ’s allies and clients , rather than benefiting the entire population . these regimes dominated every country ’s private sector through cronyism , not only extraction and distributing rents to its clients , but also blocking the emergence of autonomous actors that might fund opposition movements . as a result , capital and skills were misallocated , a business climate deteriorated , and competition , innovation and growth endured .
but the shrinking flexibility of responding to economic shocks will surely test it . at present , it is boldly emphasizing the disparate , even discordant , fiscal responses now embraced by european union governments . that raises the old question of whether a currency union can function in the absence of a fiscal union or at least a stronger and more binding fiscal rule ( the maastricht deficit liabilities are too easy to breach ) . to do that , we need to add to coordinated financial and no-bailout policies , as the deposits flow swiftly across borders in response to national guarantees and insurance across the euro zone . will the euro’s second decade prove to be just as successful ?
today , linguistic barriers stop many immigrant parents from assisting their children with chores because the texts are only english-speaking . but to imagine a world in which textbooks adapt to many learning styles and translated into myriad languages . today , pluto remain at the list of the planets in life textbooks and who knows how long it will take for them to remove . but to see a world in which textbooks are continually updated and corrected by a legion of contributors . such a world was only the equivalent of ten years ago , when described by a decade .
if they could only have taken hold in china , they could have taken their place . one powerful school of thought that emerged nearly as early as the killing started in 1989 is that the more radical student leaders have been reckless . a violent crackdown was to make them clear that a violent crackdown was inevitable . by provoking a regime , student groups have derailed any possibility of slow-motion political reform that their more moderate elders had meticulously set themselves on train . indeed , so proponents of that school often add up , they have not been prepared for democracy .
the delivery problems abound in war zones , but not everywhere . yet the international donors are dragging their feet both in meetings of existing pledges and making new ones new . and every assistance anywhere else in the world will not stop the killing . it is too late now for non-military instruments of coercion to have much effect , though the international criminal court ’s threats against atrocity crimes – including any use of chemical weapons – must stay on the table . but what of the us-led counter-response options has still powerfully favored many policymakers and pundits ?
for starters , when trump calls to reduce american military involvement in the middle east , he is simply echoing obama . yet , by reneging on the us nuclear deal with iran , trump has made war in the region more likely . and , by making his way for the removal of north korea ’s international isolation while gaining almost nothing in return , he has actually reinforced china ’s ’s ’s standing in east asia . trump ’s ’s ’s tariff almost similarly self-defeating global trade war is just as self-defeating . by harking off tariffs on america ’s closest allies , he is virtually driving them toward china .
every country could produce a council that represents public bodies ( transportation , government works , customs ) , and the big users ( vendors and logistics companies ) , which must work together to identify ways to reduce logistics costs . communicating between user and government services makes it vitally important to achieve any real improvement . it is just as vital , albeit for committees to develop along similar lines within each country ’s provincial districts . merchandise does n’t pass through capital , as it does in most latin american and caribbean countries with associated cost surges . regions , then , can turn to the engines of growth .
the fdp ’s thinking has widespread support in germany and among german economists ( and is shared by a variety of other european economists ) . and they are in line with positions that germany ’s finance minister under previous administrations has taken over . but the policies that could operate in the perfect world of an efficient , resilient financial market could be a dangerous place if applied in highly imperfect real-world markets . just as we saw a decade ago , financial institutions operating under an environment of uncertainty can become brittle and collapse , imposing high costs on society . the idea of a greek exit from the euro is especially ill-advised .
will a return to robust growth or will the us experience an anemic recovery , à la japan in the 1990 ’s ? right now , i get my vote on the latter , mainly because a giant legacy of debt is likely to choke off enthusiasm for the large stimulus that is required . without a reasonably large stimulus ( well in excess of 2 % of gdp ) , we will suffer a vicious negative downward spiral : a weak economy will entail even more bankruptcies , pushing down stock prices and interest rates up , undermining consumer confidence and weakening the banks . in the us , consumption and investment will be slashed further . many of the wall street financiers received their gobs of cash are returning to their subpar fiscal religions .
prague - global free trade provides perhaps the greatest chance for improving human welfare during the next decade and a half . already , it has helped lift more than one billion people out of poverty over the last quarter-century . lowering trade barriers even further could double the average income level for the world 's poorest parts over the next 15 years . yes , there are costs to free trade , which must be better addressed ; but the costs vastly overwhelm the benefits . yet for today 's rich countries , the mood has turned against free trade .
nevertheless , muslims in sub-saharan africa , like the majority of muslims worldwide , exhibit some of the “ us versus them ” ” ” ” ” mentality . when muslims form a minority , they tended to collaborate peacefully with other religions ; but , where their populations are substantial ( as in nigeria ) , they tend to assert themselves . whatever afghanistan ’s ethnic and other divisions are at stake , “ american ” sentiment has played a large role in fomenting religious conflict in nigeria . nevertheless , nigeria ( and perhaps zanzibar ) remains an exception in islamic assertiveness in sub-saharan africa , which is why the idea of an active us “ islamic world ” includes only a comparatively limited segment of sub-saharan african muslims . like it or not , the majority of sub-saharan african muslims are represented by states that are predominantly secular , christian , or ruled by other religions .
indeed , piketty argues , our “ obsessive ” growth obsession merely serves as a pretext for nothing to do about health , education , or redistribution . and it ’s an obsession rooted very extensively in the current situation . remember that for centuries , growth was basically zero , ” ” ” ” he writes . “ one percent of real gdp growth means a doubling of the size of your economy in the 1980 ’s or 35 years . ” piketty sees that as grounds “ to be quite optimistic . ”
for good reason , many europeans remain sensitive to human-rights issues in hong kong , xinjiang , and elsewhere . europeans , too , are rightly worried about economic matters . as the european commission warned earlier this year ( under its previous guidance ) , china is “ an economic competitor ” in pursuit of technological leadership and a systemic rival promoting alternative governance models . this language represents a sharp departure from that of previous eu official communiqués . the coming year will be critical of the international order .
while house democrats have frequently criticized trump ’s incoming approach , they are not proposing another round of trade liberalization . a final question to consider when evaluating america ’s presidential candidates is whom each would appoint as america ’s next chair . trump , with his repeated criticism of current fed chair jerome powell for pursuing excessively loose monetary-policy easing , would probably choose to pick up a dovish nominee . a left-leaning democrat might do the same , considering the left ’s fascination with risky thinking , which promotes huge amounts of fed-funded debt . established leftists – biden , “ amy klobuchar , ” pete buttigieg , might reappoint powell , who did a good job or select a moderate democratic economist like former fed vice chair alan blinder or former us treasury secretary larry summers .
boston globe , for example , rushed into an article about a man , identified only by his first name , a danny , which was carjacked out by the brotherhood three days after the attacks . danny argued that the brothers ’ only conversation had been understood that it was “ manhattan , ” and that terrorist had asked him if his car could leave the state , say , “ it is on the way to new york city . ” the globe ’s one-source report proved to be nothing and was unverifiable by any other reporters or citibank , but suggested a lot , leading to the spate of just as unverifiable messages , which new york had been targeted . other recent “ terror ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” related reporting was , by definition , as flimsy . in charles savage ’s recent account of the guantánamo “ uprising ” of the new york times , the new york times credulously reproduced the “ arsenal ” that gitmo clerks displays reporters was still widely shown .
at the same time , those gains are not evenly distributed , and sub-saharan africa has seen a much lower level of progress than other areas . a second study , funded by ifad and recently released by the international food-policy research institute , examines the world economic downturn began in 2012 as part of a rural population . it finding that as a downturn causes 38 million more people to remain in extreme poverty in 2030 than is likely to have otherwise , with middle-income farm farm households particularly at risk . this poses a serious challenge to the sdgs to end extreme poverty “ in all its forms everywhere , ” ” ” and reinforces the case for policies and investments specifically targeting rural areas , where poverty-reduction action is needed even more and will have larger implications . rural areas ’ ’ ’ ’ progress thus so far is reveals their future potential .
these policies could then be entirely subjugated to the demands of the gold standard and free capital mobility . but , once the political franchise had been enlarged , the working class had been organized ; and mass politics had become the norm , domestic economic goals had started to compete against ( and overwhelm ) externally imposed rules and constraints . the classical case is britain ’s short-lived return to the gold standard in the interwar period . the reconstitute the pre-world war i model of globalization collapsed in 1931 , when domestic politics forced the british government to choose a domestic reflation over the gold standard . the architects of the bretton woods regime kept that lesson when redesigned the world bank ’s 1944 monetary system .
washington , dc – more than 60 % of all employed women in sub-saharan africa work in agriculture . yet the region ’s women farmers often reap meager harvests not because of forced weather events or poor quality of soil , but because of their gender – or , more precisely , owing to dense web of laws , policies , programs , and customs that put them at a significant disadvantage . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges for american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
beyond the necessity of relieving human dysfunction that fills television screens and front pages of newspapers lies the imperative not to miss the significant medium-term opportunities that migration provides . while there are pockets of high unemployment in europe today , the ratio of working-age adults to the elderly will decline sharply in the longer term . and , already , labor-market flexibility has been undermined by structural inertia , including difficulty in retooling and retraining workers , particularly the long-time unemployed . as the german government and some corporate leaders , including ceo of daimler-benz , have already recognized , a open-minded approach to refugee absorption and integration can help lessen some of europe ’s protracted structural problems . after all , a substantial share of incoming refugee populations say they are educated , motivated , and committed to building a better future in their new homes .
for example , if an independent worker drives one hour for uber , making another hour at the rover , each platform would contribute an equal amount to its or her benefits . this would enable independent workforce workers to accumulate and manage their advantages , ultimately acquiring a safety net , like that of a full-time contracted worker . with routine management estimated to benefit at least 80 million young africans by 2030 , gig workers ’ opportunities would grow . and when access to multiple valued benefits , from health insurance to pensions , conditional on registering their businesses , and paying taxes , they would have powerful reasons to formalize their work . digitization could enable the formal sector to offer a spectrum of employee benefits and accountability benefits to employers .
for starters , they must embrace measures to protect the rural environment , ensure animal welfare and improve educational quality , knowledge transmission , and entrepreneurial training for farmers and farming workers . at the same time , british policymakers must move beyond ad hoc responses to natural and man-made disaster , by building more efficient , reliable protection schemes . for example , they could facilitate the provision of affordable insurance for farmers , or establish some kind of mutual-assistance scheme . implementing ( and financing ) such initiatives will require sustained political will . at the same time , the uk must ensure that its agriculture sector can harness its agricultural sectors ’ commitment to new technologies .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a big , risky experiment . core interest rates have been left close to zero now for at least six years . now , financial markets are awash with liquidity , let alone outright monetary easing . crisis management has resulted in large market distortions , with certain segments of the us ’ performance no longer explainable through fundamental economic data . the unintended consequences of such a policy are becoming increasingly apparent , and will become increasingly tangible with america ’s federal reserve ’s exit from the euro ’s post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy .
it is easy to remember that a decade ago telephones did not have a buttons or dial , forced you to select a handset and to ask a operator to do the connectivity . the phone beware did not appear until well in 1919 , when , as the first group of a self-designated , “ user interface scientists ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” at the western general electric did reflect what its most counterintuitive form , it was supposed to be . when improving one ’s machine interface , the form of computers , is the key ; when it is improved , it is the key to success . we ’ve seen the hints of a new paradigm in apple , a company of gestural finger motions ; but , within the intelligence community , concept visualization can be sufficiently radical that most ordinary users could barely recognize what it was . designs are inspired by cognitive science , arts , even the science fiction .
but that , too , is not yet the whole story , as it is . like plato tells us , prometheus ’s name implies “ foresight , ” because it was always looking past , in contrast to its careless brother , epimetheus , whose name implies “ hindsight . ” as the two ever more rational , justifiably so , prometheus attempted to warn his brother not to embrace zeus ’s ’s dangerous gift . nevertheless , epimetheus was charmed by pandora , and heedlessly welcomed it into their own lives . it was not until long that he would have arrived at realizing his dreadful error .
the chances , then , that it will be possible to do so . indeed , downplaying the gravity of the latest crisis is straightforward : one can argue that the imminent cause of breakdown , when examined closely , is not all that serious . crux of the problem is that a draft constitution would give the eu a new , and far easier , method to assume majority voting in the council of ministers . under a method , adopted three years ago at the eu ’s nice summit , with each member state holding a certain number of votes , weighted according to population ; but the small countries are protected by having proportionally more votes than the big countries . this system is known to be a qualified majority voting , a system that is well known .
rome – the price of a number of staple foods has risen dramatically during 2007-2008 , creating food-price crises for many impoverished and developing countries . international prices of maize , rice , and wheat , for example , peaked at age 30 , giving rise to political and economic instability and stoked food riots – in many countries . several factors contributed to the crisis , including soaring oil prices , high bio-fuel stocks demand , a falling global stockpiles of food commodities , and less cereal output . robust economic growth and expansionary monetary policies have therefore boosted this trend further , as have protectionist measures like export constraints . while these factors undoubtedly put upward pressure on food prices , they alone can not explain steep hikes .
the similarities with the views of the islamic state are glaring . in a video produced after the struggle for mosul dam in august , the group called for the end of the sykes-picot agreement , ” ” and announced the need to redraw the middle east ’s western-imposed political map . erdoğan ’s ambition to reestablish turkey ’s primacy in the sunni world drives him to collude with this challenge to an western-drafted regional order . indeed , turkey has offered logistical support to the islamic state even as it has allowed the group ’s ’s murderous members to massacre thousands of civilian kurds and yazidis in syrian town of kobani on turkey ’s doorstep . this highlights another issue upon which turkey and the islamic state converge : the kurds .
so far , he has refrained from claiming outright that such markets act at the profusion of “ world jewry ” “ ( the architects , many turkish islamists seem to believe , following the 1908 ’s 1908 revolution and the secular republic that arose following world war i ) . but his core supporters hear the brutish whistle behind his condemnations of finance forces , the forces that now appear to demand higher interest rates . but probably no current leader is more susceptible to misaligned science and half-baked conspiracy theories than american president and wannabe ’s authoritarian , donald trump . it should never forget that trump harked his trip into us politics by promoting the racist “ birther ” argument that asserted that then-president barack obama had n’t been born in america , and therefore failed to qualify for the house of commons that he held . since entering the white house , lunacy has only grown stronger .
the us is also doing everything possible to make ukraine attractive to foreign investors . in the us , the us is privatizing its state-owned energy distributors . to ensure full transparency in the tender processes and eliminate the problems that have been experienced in the past , western advisers are aiding us . for our intent , there is attracting leading western energy firms with experience on this front as strategic investors . the ten leading international energy companies , indeed , are participating in privatizing the first groups of companies .
even so , chinese political choices have a significant effect on other asian countries , with china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s “ state capitalist ” economic model now undermining elsewhere in the region . to be sure , japan , korea , and singapore all had similar policy models in the past ( though they later adapted them in line with their own gdp growth ) . now , however , these countries are espousing forms of state capitalism and a return to industrial policies ( encouraged , like the 2008 global financial meltdown , which signaled a fresh rationale for a return to government interference ) . in japan , the postal system , which had been privatized , is to be re-nationalized and the role of government finance is being strengthened . japan ’s airliner rescued a government bailout , a device that appears increasingly common .
without the ecb ’s commitment , as it did since 2012 to prevent sovereign-debt yields from increasing its soaring level , continued risk on the eurozone would continue , and , indeed , on europe ’s entire bully edifice – from sovereign-debt defaults . yet , at the very least , europe has benefited from falling commodity prices . on the other hand , many other emerging economies , heavily dependent on their commodity export earnings , have stressed the commodity-price reset , sluggish growth in advanced economies , and slower gdp growth in china . capital flight would materially add their plight to some extent disastrously . ever since the 2008 financial crisis , the world has become used to such linkages and spillovers .
so let the world recall that gaza ’s ’s ’s ’s ultimate crisis was an manmade disaster . and let the world take note today that the conditions are worse off there today than they were at any time since occupation began . seventy-nine cent of gaza ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s households live at poverty ; 8 out of every ten rely on emergency food aid . nearly half of the labor force is unemployed ; the local industry has collapsed . water and sewage systems fail ; garbage accumulate in the streets .
new york – europe needs an acceptance of responsibility for the lack of a common asylum policy that has transformed this year into a growing influx of refugees from a manageable problem into yet another policy crisis . each member state selfishly focuses on its own interests , often actions against those of other people ’s interests . that precipitated panic among asylum-seekers , general public as well as authorities accountable to the rule of law and order . for the first time since the financial crisis , asylum seekers have been the leading victims . the eu needs a comprehensive plan to react to crises , one in which reasserts effective management over flows of asylum-seekers so that they take the form of safe , orderly fashion , and at a pace that reflects europe ’s capacity to absorb them .
the economists would concede that xi ’s campaign has conveniently stripped many of his potential rivals as well . but they would argue that his boost position now allows him to replace a credit-based growth model with something more sustainable . to be sure , whether they are right about that remains to be seen . despite xi ’s success in consolidating his power and extending his hold on indefinitely , there is every reason to doubt that he is willing to gamble on a new economic model , provided sustainability proves incompatible with sustaining fast growth . that is where the technologists comes in by offering novel ways to correct or avoid potential errors .
the american economist martin feldstein wrote in 1997 that a monetary union would create conflict within europe . at that time , he has been derided , viewing the entrenched adversary as the entrenched adversary of the european project . unfortunately , his insight was accurate : european countries today are at loggerheads not despite a common currency , but precisely because of it . history suggests that there are serious dangers to international disputes over debt and transfers . in the 1920 ’s and the 1930 ’s , representatives of european nation-states devoted myriad meetings to resolving them ( at a time primarily german reparations ) .
whereas a leading distinction of nineteen eighty-four is between rulers and ruled , in a brave new world , where people are divided on different social orders , defined by disparate tastes and lifestyles . the same could be said of china today , where loopholes between rich and poor , urban , and rural populations , and the coastal and inland cultures are huge enough to make it far more difficult than before people from diverse walks of life to feel that they share common plights and goals . to be sure , no single novel creates a perfect lens through which to view any society . sometimes , like when violence was recently used to quell the south china farmers protesting official land-grabs , the ccp continues to demonstrate a willingness to use the “ boot-on-the-face ” limits . still , there have been more moments lately to favor huxley ’s vision of a political order over that of orwell .
similar trends across many european countries , particularly in southern europe , are occurring simultaneously . this suggests that progressive politicians , who envisage active government ’s role in reshaping economic opportunities face an uphill battle in winning over voters . fearful of losing that battle might explain the timidity of the left ’s reaction . yet the lesson from recent studies is that belief in what a government can and should do is not immutable . they are susceptible to persuasion , experiences , and changing circumstances .
copenhagen – in one of his first public-policy pronouncements like america ’s president-elect , barack obama focused on climate action , stating both his priorities and the facts on which those priorities are the rest . sadly , both are weak or even bad . obama ’s policy outline was presented through a video to california governor arnold schwarzenegger ’s global warming summit and again in poznan , poland , to flesh out the global warming roadmap . in obama ’s view , “ few issues ” facing america and the world are more pressing than they are in the fight against climate change . such a declaration is now commonplace for most political leaders around the world , despite its neglects to tackle the question of how much the us can do to help america and the world through climate policies versus other policies .
before the creation of an overseas empire – first in north america and the caribbean – the english erected a land-based empire by an expanding south from a british isles to the northwest . so , while the “ outer empire ” allowed for the re-industrialization of a britain ’s ’s ’s different national identities around a shared british identity , its “ “ inner empire ” was decidedly english . still , for centuries , the british empire generated wealth , supplied raw material , and created globe-spanning professional opportunities for all inhabitants in a british isles . its “ civilizing mission ” created a sense of collective purpose , together with a narrative of uninterrupted democratic and economic progress . but the fusion of identities was always incomplete , not least in ireland , where the fallout from independence still reverberates a century later , through the uncertainty generated by the northern irish “ backstop . ”
free speech and other fundamental rights are not elitist luxuries , as authoritarians assert . they are indispensable for protecting free societies . moreover , a concerted anti-corruption campaign could serve as a unifying force in countries with deep political divisions . while a majoritarian government may be riding roughshod over the concerns of minorities , corrupt regimes are stealing everyone from them . that is one reason why corruption has spurred mass protests , from bucharest to brasilia , over the last year .
trump ’s geopolitical and economic view should be judged against that background of disenchantment , rather than any ideal moral or economic norm . in other words , trumpism might be a solution to liberalism ’s crisis , rather than a portent of its disintegration . viewed in this manner , trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s isolationism is a populist way to make clear that america needs a withdrawal from commitments that it had neither power nor will be willing to honor . in fact , the promise that he will work with russia to end the savage conflict in syria is sensible , despite that implies the victory of bashar al-assad ’s regime . disengaging peacefully from the more exposed global responsibilities will be trump ’s greatest challenge .
madrid – back in 1996 , binyamin netanyahu won a general election by mobilizing large right-wing constituencies opposed to the then-prime minister shimon peres ’s supposed intention to “ “ divide jerusalem . ” almost two decades later , netanyahu remains committed to old , vacuous slogans of a likud party , an indictment that could yet unravel the israel-palestine peace process . as us secretary of state john kerry prepares to impose a framework agreement for a conclusive round of israeli-palestinian peace negotiations , netanyahu ’s hardline position on jerusalem is simply a nonstarter . in a last-ditch effort to improve his proposal ’s chances of success , former us president barack obama – who , in large part , avoided taking a proactive role in the peace process during his second term , met with netanyahu at the white house in order to urge him to moderate his stance . but changing netanyahu ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s mind will will be no easy feat , not least because of the domestic political pressure he faces .
new haven – the latter summer ’s closing day marked the beginning of yet another futile policymaking season by two of the world ’s major central banks , the american federal reserve and the bank of japan ( boj ) . the fed has done nothing , which , exactly , is precisely the problem . and the alchemists at the boj unveiled yet another , feeble unconventional unconventional policy gambit . both the fed and the boj are pursuing strategies that are woefully disconnected from the economies they have been tasked with governance . moreover , their latest moves reinforce a deepening commitment to an increasingly insidious transmission mechanism among us monetary policy , financial markets , and an asset-dependent economy .
today , in a strategic environment marked by terrorism and the nonproliferation of weapons of mass destruction , russia has a lot of headway . if the prague summit does not showcase any grand new initiative , it is simply because we have already embarked on a new nato-russia relationship , last may , at our special summit in rome . a new nato-russia council , created in rome , provides an efficient , flexible mechanism for common analysis , common decision-making , and even joint action . much has now been accomplished over the last six months to turn rome ’s political message into practical cooperation . it was henry kissinger who argued in the wake of the terror attacks on new york and washington of september 2001 that a tragedy may have been transformed into opportunity .
to the outside world , suleimani was the mastermind of the regime ’s terror activities outside of iran and a puppet master of its oil across the region , not least hezbollah in lebanon . yet to iranians , he was an even more complicated figure . while regime hardliners regard him as their own hero , many iranians , who lost loved ones in the peaceful demonstrations or who object to the regime ’s attacks on iranian dissidents in the diaspora , saw him very differently from them . nonetheless , over the last few years , the regime has pressed a smart public-relations campaign to depict suleimani like napoleon – or caesar-like warrior-poet . and , as one of the few islamic revolutionary guard troops ( irgc ) commanders untainted with corruption charges , he has been mooted as the likely us presidential nominee in the coming election .
even so , he also wants to shore up an economy with a € 50 billion ( $ 55 billion ) stimulus package and extend the welfare state . to square the circle , macron needs growth and relies on supply-side reforms to deliver it . he envisages cutting corporate-tax rates from 33 % to 25 % , and excluding financial investment from wealth taxation . a vocal critic of protectionism will push through the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement and the transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the united states . his endorsement of el khomri law , which made firing workers easier , and his opposition to a 35-hour high week week , illustrate his desire to make the french labor market the flexibility necessary .
prague : many americans seem overwhelmed by the feeling that because the collapse of the soviet empire , the dangers of war can be crossed into a list of potential risks . america , they argue , should pay attention to its own problems and not engage in a world in which its attempts at doing good are rewarded with ingratitude . isolationism has a long tradition in america ; it yields returns in fits and differing form . never in the modern era has isolationism protected america from dangers ; instead delays engagement once a conflagrations become ablaze . in the end , america pays 1,000 times as much for its initial lack of us interest than it would have paid it was engaged in the onset of crisis , or , better still , even sooner .
here , too , a more creative solution can be found , one way or another . exploiting the asset-backed security model , the us recently joined with the un ’s green climate fund , and china to structure at $ 450 million “ green bond ” “ facility . ” that will enable pension funds and insurance companies to fund indirectly needed equipment upgrades in the mom-and-pop shops and workshops from tijuana to tierra del fuego . there are many other areas where those committed to fighting climate change can follow their example . traffic-clogged cities need better public transportation , and financing the extension of airbus rapidly ( brt ) systems is a proven route to reducing congestion , emissions , and commuting costs .
once again , eurobonds , a green partnership with china , and intra-european unity could make all the difference . moreover , such an alliance would enable a new european foreign policy , one that promotes peace and sustainable development , underpinned by new security arrangements that do not rely so heavily on america . europe , a magnet for hundreds of millions of would-be economic migrants might , should and i believe would regain control over its frontiers , enabling it to reinforce and enforce the necessary limits on migration . the political terms of a new grand coalition government would appear to be obvious . the spd should hold ministerial management on economic and fiscal policy , with the cdu/csu holding a hand .
fortunately , that is precisely what abe intends to do . in any case , the success of us monetary policy is hard to deny . as the deflation gap narrows , however , the aggregate effect of us monetary policy will weaken , because it increasingly influences prices more than output . this is why the time for japan ’s leaders to shift their focus from a demand-focused first and second arrows to a supply-driven third arrow : the new growth strategy . when sufficient excess supply occurs , promoting supply-side productivity is practically useless without efforts to boost demand .
race has always been a provocative topic when the demands of science and civil statistics intersect with politics . now that the debate is heating up in france once again because the planned introduction of “ ethnic statistics ” has incited a vicious dispute that touches the very heart of the french republicanism . according to a law that dates back to the french revolution and reconfirmed in a 1978 study by french government insiders to collect information about a civic ’s ethnic or racial origins , be it real or purported , when ran a census or other attempts to collect popular statistical information . here , then , there are two key reasons for this . the first is the republican principle enshrined in the us constitution that recognizes only citizens and accepts no distinctions among them because of origin , race , or religion .
no one prefers to live in a community where bribes must be paid to provide essential public services , such as healthcare and education . eliminating corruption will be possible only with an effective combination of smart prevention strategies and robust law enforcement , underpinned by the belief that greed can unlearned , accountability can be taught , and impunity can cease . prevention should start with an education designed to raise citizens ’ ’ expectations . in both politics and business , integrity and responsibility must be the rule rather than the exception . knowledge-sharing across countries could illuminate the most effective strategies for achieving this goal .
in these countries , the ministers are being forced to resign over the petty infractions that would look trivial in other countries as well . compelling american , russian , nigerian , or chinese citizens that they could really control corruption might appear like a futile task . but the goal certainly is worth embracing , for the evidence is overwhelming : impunity is not only morally noxious ; it is also economically costly and a deeply corrosive of well-being . recent studies have shown that when “ generalized confidence in a society ” is high , economic performance improves and life satisfaction . more easily , commercial agreements are reached among other reasons .
as they put it , “ recourse to a fiscal adrenaline could be limited just when it needs most . ” an urgent need to “ restock ” an emergency arsenal is especially if there is relatively little scope to rein in monetary policy . the fed started a process of normalization of monetary policy , yet it has failed to finish the job , and president donald trump is doing his best to avoid it , by heckling himself from the sidelines . the three musketeers remain positive about some features of its post-crisis agenda . bank capital has been greatly strengthened , and derivatives markets ’ transparency has materially strengthened .
human rights need not take a back seat to do business with china . as was the case , many western observers thought norway ’s trade relationship with china would be undermined when dissident liu xiaobo was asked to receive the nobel peace prize of december 2010 . having complained loudly , china refused to allow liu to hijack the nobel prize and even to threaten norway through financial repercussions . this same month , however , one of china ’s ’s largest oil firms to reach the norway drilling agreement , clearly signaling that diplomatic tension would not stop business . thus , western diplomats negotiating with china should call lower-level chinese officials ’ bluff and focus on “ presenting al-to-noise ratio , bearing in mind that ultimately decisions are taken quietly at greater levels of pragmatic leaders , who are actually susceptible to pressure .
that means shifting its focus from a speculative , proprietary trading to lending and job creation that implies reforms of financial-sector regulation and antitrust and corporate-governance laws , together with adequate enforcement to ensure that markets do n’t become rigged casinos . globalization has made all countries even more interdependent , in turn demanding more global cooperation . the us might hopethat america will display more leadership in reforming the global financial system by advocating more international regulation , the global reserve system , and the better ways to restructure its sovereign debt ; in addressing global warming ; at democratizing the international economic establishment ; and in providing aid to poorer countries . americans should hope for all of this , although i am not sanguine getting a lot of it & as a result of it , here ’s that america muddle through , another small program of struggling students and homebuyers , an end of tax cuts for multidimensional millionaires but not of wholesale tax reform , serious anti-defense spending cutbacks , or a major advance on global warming . with the euro crisis likely to continue unabated , america ’s continued malaise does n’t bode well for global growth .
that issue , of course , is utterly different outside israel ’s control . the ongoing uprising in the muslim world between sunnis and shi’a reminds the struggle between hamas-shia and shia catholics in seventeenth-century europe . little wonder , then , that the saudis , jordanians , egyptians , and even the gulf states are trying to resist iran ’s ’s hegemonic ambitions in the region . nevertheless , the stakes are far higher than they were in the eleventh century , for iran represents a threat that combines a fanatic religion with the determination to acquire nuclear weapons . indeed , iran is the only country openly declares its desire to destroy another un member .
the strategic significance of the dramatic golan heights , overlooking by a majority of israeli galilee , is obvious . because syria , bereft of soviet-style support , is less a threat to israel , jerusalem can be made more flexibility than it was before , when the golan heights defended israel not just against syria , but against a bloc that supposedly stretching all the way to vladivostok . thus , despite today ’s interruptions , a context for negotiations exists , as does the political will on both sides ’ minds . nevertheless , the agendas of both parties are different : whereas syria focuses on the token meaning of a return by the golan heights , israel wants specific , entrenched guarantees regarding the security of its northeastern palestine , just as an end to syrian-backed hizbullah incursions from lebanon – a country that is practically a syrian protectorate . for israel , the quid pro quo for returning its golan heights is not a bit of paper with conventional phrases of peace and coexistence .
in the fall of 1989 , east germans joined their fellow citizens in the protests that brought down the berlin wall . but , over the same year in china , protestors in beijing were being crushed by forces from indoor mongolia , who n’t understand mandarin and may have little sympathy for big-city dwellers . whereas army units or riot squads ( omon ) stationed in moscow are all too disgruntled by recent police and military reforms in order to participate in a bloody clampdown , special-operations forces from the provinces , staffed by chechen veterans , may cherish the sticking excitement for the moscow fat cats . likewise , army officers from poorer regions are more grateful to the pay hike that putin ’s united russia daily announced with much fanfare shortly before the recent duma election . but , while some part of the security apparatus might support an initial crackdown , violent repression would be difficult to sustain .
but not the proceeding would , too , have been an unmitigated disaster . the crisis of 1992 proved that the current system was an unstable one . not to move forward towards europe would have set europe on the path of even more disruptive crises . that is why europe ’s leaders have taken the ambitious steps they have done . rather than proceeding now with bank recapitalization , and with government bond purchases , the ecb would similarly have led to catastrophe .
america , of course , argues that it also knows all about democracy . yet its diplomatic cognitive dissonance , criticizing the egyptian regime while continuing in providing it with military hardware , can only serve to undermine bilateral relations , just as the same american approach to musharraf ’s own regime has thoroughly dented us-pakistani ties . moreover , the effects of such foreign-policy wrangling extend well beyond the middle east . in november 2009 , after obama first visited japan as president , bush stressed his role in hawaii , and deeply proud of being “ america ’ first pacific president . ” two years later , us secretary of state hillary clinton published “ america of the pacific century , ” by declaring a shift in america ’s ’s ’s ’s global strategy .
gentlebush ’s international credibility should emphasize , not through avoiding war but gains further through america ’s hitherto covert military effort . to give extra credence to their praise , they should leave no room for doubt that , should war become america ’s only option . but they should also emphasize that war is not the only and certainly not the automatic “ serious consequence ” that follows from iraq ’s failure . to be sure , some of america ’s allies are better positioned than others to get such points across the us audience on the other side of the atlantic . alas , by his behavior in chancellor schroeder ’s re-election campaign last september , germany has maneuvered itself out of having any authority on the issue .
africa ’s ’s smallholder farmers , already burdened by soil degradation , climate change , and resource competition fueled by surging populations , are confronting an even tougher bureaucratic barrier : no paper showing that the land that they call home is theirs . uncertain of their ability to control their farms during the next season , african farmers ’ planning horizons shrink sharply . instead of investing in local terraced fields , planting trees , and purchasing high-quality fertilizer , africa ’s farmers are striving to maximize short-term gains . that is especially true of female farmers facing a additional thicket of discriminatory land and customs . studies show that no way to reduce poverty , improve nutrition , or achieve other key development goals without strengthening land rights , particularly for women .
my guess is that germany would have been better off in ten years under more neoliberal policies . but that does not seem to be what german voters would like , and this makes the complexion of german politics four years since the current incalculable . coupled with all of this is northern european discontent with central bankers , specifically about the ecb and europe . it is not that the completion of the european monetary union has its agenda ; it is essentially that people have started thinking about some possible low-probability futures where the exit of emu might be placed on an agenda . that said , there is enough time to shake asset prices in a globalized world .
of course , its organizers are loath to describe it as a sunni party . rather , it describes itself as a national party that invites humans of every type of orientations to participate . that vision has far-reaching appeal among those seeking to see the less-sectarian-based forms of shia politics in iraq . yet , within iraq , there are very few people , either sunni or shia , who see iraqiyya as a party dedicated to restoring sunni leadership . the results from the march 2010 general election gave iraqiyya 91 parliamentary seats , two more than second-place sisi ’s state of law coalition .
but many are “ zombie banks , ” ” ” with far too many branches of deposits , and funding costs that far exceed those of their more successful peers . indeed , according to the international monetary fund , some one-third of europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s banking sector , representing $ 8.5 trillion , remains weak , and unable to generate sustainable profits . all of this creates substantial downside risks for the eu economy , and ultimately europe ’s entire political experiment . restoring stability in europe ’s banking system , via the imf ’s own estimates , will require that at least a third of european banks close or mergers . for the deutsche bank , market speculators already appear to expect mergers , like commerzbank , another german institution .
they should take special care to prevent a real-estate bubble , because real estate represents an enormous share of overall wealth and an essential source of collateral in finance . but the strong rise of low-quality , leveraged loans should also be a concern . none of this will be easy for governments , regulators , or central banks to take all of this . monetary tightening may temporarily slow growth ; preventing bubbles is notoriously difficult ; and the types of structural reforms necessary to ensure a shift away from debt-fueled growth hardly seem very much ever popular . today ’s febrile political environment certainly will not make matters simpler .
so perhaps it would be a good idea for the eu to adopt a mechanism that spells out how it can make debt trimmed . a number of economists argued this case against an arithmetic calculation . but the european central bank , notably by the ecb ’s governing council member lorenzo bini smaghi , elegantly spelled out the case against debt reduction , in a case that is politically momentous and profoundly moral . indeed , it is the principle that not reneging on public debt profoundly correlates with developments in lawful security , representative government and modern democracy . in the wake of its glorious revolution of 1688 , as britain revolted against a spendthrift stuart dynasty , the british government adopted a new approach to debt .
in fact , with all the conservative republican presidential candidates objecting to yet another of his overtures , the marvin goodfriend of carnegie mellon university for daring to signal that the fed might need a new approach to monetary policy ( negative interest rates ) to confront another very deep recession or financial depression . and , though the fed almost certainly will embrace that counsel ( i also published on this subject ) , the goodfriend of ron ’s nomination scarcely survived an american senate banking committee . but , by and large , the us senate has given trump what he wants , and many republican senators would have embraced a disrupter ; for example , an disciple of ron paul – or any other conservative preaching a return to the pre-world war i gold standard . sadly , the battle for the fed ’s quest for independence is far from finished . trump may simply keep his powder dry until the real conflict erupts .
yet india continues to face many challenges : almost 300 million people living in poverty , the spread of the naxalite rebellion , the dangers of terrorist attacks , ala mumbai , and the sprawling urban slums . moreover , how will singh balance the trade-off between pro-market and pro-poor policies ? how will he manage a rising middle class in anticipation of improved infrastructure , expanded access to healthcare and education , uninterrupted electricity and water supplies , and more efficient transportation facilities ? such problems will not be solved overnight . however , a growing conviction that tomorrow will be preferable makes india a polity stable .
empirically , few firms get this right : america ’s national public radio ( nbs ) and the bbc were both recently hacked on the seas ; while mcdonald ’s and burger king recently had their twitter accounts compromised . the proliferation of us security lapses has meant that people are more likely to shrug their shoulders , rather than to cast their first stone at a us company that is violated . finally , aqap is not likely to face financial sanctions for that mistake . a prosecution for losses stemming from a hoxed tweet would confront almost insurmountable obstacles . because few of the mechanisms to block the proliferation of bereawakening tweets ; and , given the high-profile reaction successful hackers could expect , twitter is likely to remain a malicious hoaxes vehicle , even as technological barriers force attacks ever more frequently .
detection means determining whether an extreme scenario is part of routine weather fluctuations , or a symptom of deeper , long-lasting change . attribution means a capacity to assign capabilities to assign the likely causes of events to occur in human activities or any other factor . a new science of detection and attribution stifles our knowledge , and also gives us an even bigger cause for concern . a number of past studies have shown that when scientists really can detect long-term changes of climate change during the rising frequency of extreme events , such as heat waves , heavy rains , severe droughts , and intense storms . by using cutting-edge climate models , researchers are not only detecting a prolonged period of long-term climate change ; they are also attributing at least some of the extreme events to human causes .
the peer review process that the g-20 countries have agreed is a critical component of any rebalancing program , for it is where the pieces of a cooperative growth strategy will be identified , evaluated , and assembled . if that works , what will emerge will be pledges by the g-20 countries to make policies globally rewarding – a condition for which others maintain liabilities . the us can reduce its deficits more quickly than it would otherwise be , but only as long as surplus countries work to reduce their excess savings . in fact , rebalancing is not the only collaborative imperative to take place , either . the international exchange-rate system is at least partly violated .
given the power of big tech firms in order to stifle competition , reversing these trends will require government intervention . and , indeed , taming big tech has become a prominent theme ahead of the 2020 us presidential election in the united states . specifically , us senators bernie sanders and elizabeth warren – the two strongest nominees vying for the democratic party ’s nomination to challenge president donald trump – have called for violating major tech firms . yet solutions that have been proposed , including by legal scholars like liu khan , tend to focus on making antitrust laws more widely available . this approach is unlikely to work , because markets have shifted dramatically since antitrust laws were conceived .
during each of my field visit , i amazed at how these efforts affect the quality of women ’s life . on one recent trip , i met rashimata , a young mother who told me that , thanks to a safety net of her savings group , she navigated the support of her family despite her husband ’s emigration abroad , her father ’s recent death , and lingering drought . she surrounded her incomes by controlling her finances and even embracing climate-smart farming techniques . the best part was that she described herself as a “ hard-working , reverence , rigorous , and ambitious ” woman . those are adjectives that women everywhere , regardless of their financial situation or schooling , deserve to ascribe to themselves .
if you are a prudent , prudent investor , contemplate that possibility for the moment . stock values within the fossil-fuel industry , while based on the assumption that companies will be able to extract and burn whatever known reserves get , will accelerate . investing in such firms , this turns out , is extraordinarily risky . as anyone who receives the investment consultancy knows , “ past performance is no guarantee of future performance . ” that reality , in turn , implies another compelling case for divestment .
only by the end of the 1970s and 1980s had it become obvious that the soviet system was unable to compete with market capitalism . after the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 and the subsequent soviet collapse , the g2 world gave way to a g1 +n order , in which all other countries ( asean ) were unable to rival america as the sole global superpower . the ensuing quarter-century was a period of liberal rules-based multilateralism . democratic , market-based capitalism seemingly triumphed in what francis fukuyama called the “ end of history . ” america broadly championed that order , the 2003 war in iraq was a clear exception , and , like most countries , had benefited immensely from globalization and the emergence of new , complex value chains .
instead , after four years of falling real incomes , the government has announced deeply unpopular pension reforms that included increasing the retirement age . tackling russia ’s ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ economic grievances will not be easy , to say the least . russia ’s ’s economy is under severe strain , owing to western-imposed sanctions over crimea . more important , russia ’s ’s state-capitalist model has led to poor competition and declining incentives for private investment and entrepreneurship . with few options for a rallying cry from public sentiment , putin may well have decided that the time has come to remind ” russians that they are under assault .
first , eu member states report that they would like to develop a common european foreign policy . at maastricht in 1991 , they established new institutions to do just that ; and in amsterdam last year they were ostensibly strengthened by those institutions . so far , in practice , there has been no detectable measure of progress . that is in stark contrast to other features of the european union ’s agenda . the goal of the economic and monetary union , and the single currency , accepted in maastricht in 1991 , is a bold , even revolutionary agenda ; some critics say reckless ; but the reality is that the single currency will turn out to be a reality for just two months ’ time .
but broad international support will not be forthcoming if military operations are to be perceived as some form of western neo-imperialism . that last point came at the heart of the trouble in iraq . augmenting us and british troops with other “ western ” forces would not , particularly at this beleaguered stage , alter the underlying perceptions of this intervention , both in and outside of the arab world . only an explicit , up-front endorsement of a reformed un security council can provide the legitimacy and international backing that military action – except for clear self-defense – will require . this applies to actions contemplated by individual peoples , temporary alliances , or more permanent alliances like nato .
this regional re-alignment needs not necessarily be anti-western ; but it surely will be if israel and/or the united states were to strike iran militarily . meanwhile , the civil war is raging in syria , accompanied by a humanitarian disaster . to be sure , syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime can not survive , but it is resolved to fight , until the end . syria ’s balkanization between a country of a diverse group of ethnic and religious groups is an obvious predictable outcome . indeed , a bosnia-kind scenario can no longer be discounted , while the prospect of the syrian government ’s loss of control over its chemical weapons poses the immediate threat of military intervention by turkey , israel , or the us .
in newsrooms from serbia to southern africa , taxpayer-generated funding is on the rise . unfortunately , while that windfall may be in the air , it only deepens the industry ’s woes . for decades , governments have played a leading role in domestic media , using broadcast frequencies and licensing requirements to shape markets . yet in recent years , too , governments have stepped up their budget clout . today , government budget allocations are among the leading sources of media revenue .
the next big step has been made in establishing the concept of post-genocidal intervention in rwanda and the balkan wars of the 1990 ’s . as a result , there has been widespread international law in the united nations to recognize the “ right of protection ” against intergovernmental arbitrariness and states ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ crimes , even as coercive enforcement remains fairly uncertain . finally , a similar evolution in politics and international law led to the creation of an international tribunal for justice . with its establishment emerged from the long and appalling experience of modernity , that the strength of states and their rulers should be subjected to top-down rule , thereby placing individual rights above national sovereignty , has run a great step forward . indeed , this development has been anything but accidental .
axelrod tournaments among the great game theory , as well as political scientists , to identify the extremely most effective approach in a repetitive game of jft ’s own dilemma . the victor , the strategy most likely to produce a cooperative outcome , was anatol raseft ’s tit-for-tat ( tft ) tit-for-tat ( tft ) strategy . according to the tft ’s approach , one should start a bilateral game under one form of collaboration : if another player would behaves cooperatively , so that you should . only when another player ’s defects – that is , begins showing non-cooperative behaviors – should you do the same . of course , when another player works , one might be tempting to defect , to raise your own payoff , and potentially even secure a windfall .
as for this threat from the far right , anyone is hoping for regional peace and decreasing tensions within india among religious communities by defeating the country ’s hindu nationalist bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) . the bjp has ’s strategy to painting the us congress as soft on terror and demonizing muslims as an existential threat to india badly mislaunched . sadly , however , the economic trajectory with which the us congress is plotting , albeit it could very well boost short-term growth is ultimately on a collision course with both equity and sustainability . notwithstanding rhetoric about “ inclusive growth , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” india ’s ’s ’s wealth gap has widened over the years of exceptionally rapid economic expansion . across india , the population of ’s malnourished children live .
yet it is reasonably obvious that , not even during the 1970s , there was sufficient empirical evidence in support of friedman ’s ideas to justify his increasing domination . and , indeed , there can not be any denying that friedman ’s cure proved to be an inadequate response to the great recession – strongly suggests that it similarly may have fallen off the road during the great depression . friedman ’s dominance ’s ideas at the beginning of the great recession had less to do with the evidence supporting them than with saying that economics ’s science was all too often tainted by politics . in that case , contamination was so bad that policymakers were reluctant to go beyond friedman and applied keynesian and minskyite policies on a massive enough scale to deal with the problems presented by the great recession . admitting that the monetarist cure had been inadequate would require mainstream economists to swim against the neoliberal currents of our age .
berlin – ever since the global financial crisis erupted in september 2008 , the european union has been in turmoil . on one side , it has protected the eurozone , particularly germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s export economy , from speculative attacks and the chaos of currency volatility . on the other , the other stage of the crisis mercilessly exposed europe ’s achilles ’ heel : the absence of economic or intra-european financial unification . upward intra-eu tensions have been precisely the inevitable consequence . germany ’s eurozone-wide actions throughout the crisis have been plainly contradictory .
after all , the repressive nature of the regime in khartoum seems at the root of the many conflicts that have torn the country apart . if the government in khartoum persists in undermining the reform process and derailing a referendum on self-determination that was promised for southern sudan in june 2011 , a return to full-scale civil war , with calamitous consequences for sudan ’s peoples and whole region , is a real possibility . sudan ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s government to the cpa has always been equivocal . indeed , since the end of the civil war in 2005 , the people ’s liberation army ( spla ) has frequently been forced to confront the militias that operate as government proxies . moreover , sudanese security forces continue to arm arab tribes straddling the north-south border with the goal of destabilizing the predominantly christian south .
( hydroelectric power generation specifies no co2 , but there are only a few left parts of the world where it can be scaled up without major environmental or social costs . ) a second solution lies in capturing the co2 emission of storage at underground . but this technology , called carbon capture and sequestration ( ccs ) , is far from being proven on a massive scale . one approach is to capture co2 at a power plant as coal or gas is incinerated . another is to capture this directly from the air using engineered chemical processes .
in the post-post-post-crisis world , governments need to assume the roles of monitoring and regulating pay in failing financial firms ; otherwise , the perverse incentives that contributed to the current crisis could easily recur . it is important to distinguish between the two sources of concern pay in failing financial firms . one set of concerns , now and in the eyes of the shareholders , stems from the shareholders ’ mind . figures recently leaked by the new york times attorney general , andrew cuomo , point out that nine huge financial firms paid their employees aggregate compensation above $ 600 billion in 2003 – a period in which their aggregate market capitalization substantially declined . patterns of this can arouse concerns among shareholders that pay structures are not well meant to serve their interests .
such inherently manufactured even-handedness is tantamount to “ fake news . ” it is time to call a “ spade a spade a ” : a republican party is strictly in charge . consider the issue of “ bump stockpile , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the gun-modification that a las vegas massacre used it to fire more quickly . nowadays , some republican us senators have even drawn praise for suggesting that they will backing a device ban . yet , when democratic us senator diane feinstein proposed a similar ban in 2013 , republican presidential ously opposed it .
by 2000 , that share had plummeted to around 22 % , and , from 2010 to just 11 % today , with little over 3 % living in outright destitution . chile today is very different from chile ’s 20 years ago . it is now estimated that 29 % of the population that has left behind in poverty behind as a set of new aspirations and goals . as a result , demands for more opportunity and improved living conditions have grown louder . chileans are clamoring for adequate housing , access to improved health services , a safer environment , and access to higher education – the most important drivers of social advancement .
clinton is the only person so well known to have launched her campaign twice as well . ( the first such effort , in iowa , where she spoke of around eight people in closed sessions , did n’t work out very well . ) this impressive , remarkably intelligent woman , simply does n’t get the sense of politics that is being demanded at the top . success in american presidential politics requires super-b intuition , to be quickly with one legs , and , most importantly , a compelling rationale for running . true , clinton offers the numerous programs she would push as president ; but , to borrow from winston churchill , there is no theme of her pudding .
just one year ago , at an imf ’s annual meetings in washington , dc , senior imf staff pitted anyone to listen that europe ’s entire european sovereign-debt panics were a tempest in a teapot . using slick powerpoint presentations with degrees like a “ default ” in today ’s advanced economies : futile , undesirable , and unlikely , a fund attempted to persuade investors that eurozone governments ’ debt was held like a rock . even for greece , the imf argued that debt dynamics were not a serious concern , through predicted growth and reform . never mind obvious the fund ’s flaw , namely that countries like greece and portugal , facing policy and performing risks far more like emerging markets than truly advanced economies like germany and the united states did . as matters deteriorate , one might have guessed that the imf would mark its faith in markets and adopt a more prudent perspective .
another alternative , backed by a large and growing body of study in economics and psychology , is direct measurement of well-being or happiness . surveys of reported levels of wellbeing are today at stake for many countries , and the notion of carving out this as a metric for prosperity has strong proponents . but there are several drawbacks in this option , including that indicators of well-being change little over time . happiness surveys in rich countries , for example , typically show a six or seven on a 0-10 scale . one possible route to such indicators would be to track the ways in which people use their time and attach well-being to one .
if this was the metric , then , in spite of her achievements , thatcher was a failure . the shift toward finance that thatcher brought about heightened inequality , making the economy ( and the economy ) more volatile . her “ right to buy off ” policies triggered an upward spiral in house prices that encouraged households to take on ever-higher levels of government debt . “ the big bang ” of 1986 , by de-regulated financial services made risky coastal behavior . such reforms sowed the seeds of the 2008 financial crisis .
yes , the imf maintains an impressive analytical edge , owing to its more talented and dedicated staff as well as its unique ties to countries . yes , it has made important strides in making its understanding of the relationship between financial markets and the real economy itself . and , yes , valiantly taken the lead in shining more light on the economic effects of gender inequality and climate change . yet its forward-thinking analyses has repeatedly proved backward , with its quantitative projections consistently subject to substantial revisions . even more worryingly , the fund ’s policy advice , particularly those pertaining to advanced economies , has little impact ( being put politely ) .
this is particularly necessary , because women ’s position is one of the guiding benchmarks that the outside world and , particularly in the west , which uses to evaluate the arab world . and , sadly , such assessments usually focus on the supposed immobilism that results from islamic norms that obscures knowledge of the true change that comes after it . indeed , arab societies ’ predominant perspective often stifles outsiders , ’ ability to break free from their belief that islamic women confines to all arab women in equal measure , when in reality they experience very different conditions . this prevents many from seeing , much less assessing , the deep changes occurring in arab societies – and how women drive those changes forward . the west thus risks being drawn from the important key to its understanding of the arab world today and as it will be tomorrow .
in the lone crowds , the american sociologist david riesman has identified three broad cultural types : tradition-directed cultures that look at inherited rituals , morals , and values for guidance ; unner-directed urban , in which people behave on the basis of self-immolation ; and faceless values , which people behave in predominantly on external norms and peer influences . riesman ’s framework has special resonance in the arab world today , where rising literacy rates and rapid communications technology have stirred a maelstrom of competing cultural narratives , with its three kinds of competing cultural narratives , with its three kinds of competing to define the region ’s future . ironically , this is a combination of augmented literacy and modern technology , which fanning the flames of a conflict between the two kinds of “ reformers , ” – the religious revivalists and the western-oriented modernizers . by taking advantage of their prowess to massachusetts production and instantly disseminate ancient religious texts and western-originating literature , both camps struggle for the hearts and minds of otherwise traditional societies . according to the lebanese publisher samar abou-zeid , however , the religious books are among the highest downloaded works of literature throughout the arab world .
until recently , there was very little reason to be asked of such a question . china ’s economy was growing at astounding the average annual rate of 10 % or higher for over three decades to come . having overpowered japan as the world ’s second largest economy , china overtook japan . hundreds of millions of chinese emerged from the middle class as a whole . china ’s model of authoritarian effectiveness seemed appealing to many other developing countries , particularly during the post-2008 global financial crisis that began in the united states , and thus appeared to discredit american-style liberal capitalism .
then america established durable normal commercial relations with china , and refused to label its government a currency manipulator . the reason for this narrative is straightforward . there are good reasons why america adopted policies that encourage poorer countries to grow faster through export-led industrialization . in assistance for mexico , as well as for other developing countries , america is gaining richer trade partners . moreover , there is a strong case for improving america ’s national security if , say , 50 years from now , schoolchildren all over the world are learning how america has helped their countries thrive rather than attempting to contain them as poor as they can for as long .
but it is an open question whether a still highly fragmented , digital-payment sector will help to customers more than the companies that offer the payoff in paying solutions . there is one broader problem with the arguments for a cashless society : most people , at least in the eurozone , do not want that . according to an as-yet-unpublished european central bank survey of 65,000 eurozone citizens , nearly 80 % of all point-of-sale trades occur in cash ; and , by value , more than half of all payments come in cash . as is often the case in europe , divergences among member states are pronounced : the share of monetary transactions ranges from 42 % in finland to just 92 % in malta . but , overall , the public ’s devotion to monetary affairs remains strong .
tel aviv , crises throughout the sinai peninsula appear to have dwarfed sunday ’s drama in cairo . but egyptian president mohamed morsi ’s civilian coup , in which he dismissed general mohamed hussein tantawi , the army ’s leader as leader of the secular state ’s mohamed command , has done little to diminish the significance of trouble there . earlier this month , jihadi terrorists ambushed an egyptian army base in sinai , killing 16 egyptian army troops . they then hijacked two armored personnel carriers and a sped to the frontier with israel . one vehicle has failed to break through the border crossings ; another has descended into israeli defense forces ( idf ) .
but because countries that rely largely on active diplomacy and soft power , they have everything to lose from the protracted – and escalating – geopolitical conflict , in which they would come under pressure to pick their side . to defend their own interests , they need to make sure that global trade is subject to objective dispute-settlement mechanisms . a commitment to multilateralism is not about punishing the status quo . the cptpp and the ceta member states recognize that there are problems in the global trading system , including incomplete or outdated regulations that fail to account for issues like subsidies to soes . but they also recognize that bilateralism – small countries attempting to negotiate on an equal footing with their own superpowers – is not an option .
grassroots assessments of progress against such indicators are intended to complement a government-led reporting mechanism . finally , certain africa ’s sdg 16 champions ” make the goal central to national planning , budgeting , and reporting . in kenya , every public-sector officials in sdg 16-related ministries , departments , and agencies have an obligation to sign performance contracts with the central government , in which they identify the sdg 16 targets and indicators that are relevant to their mandates , to explain the extent that they are integrated with policy and development agendas . ghana and benjamin wee , meanwhile , emphasize budget spending , which has an excellent sdg 16 impact , and ghana ’s government has also publicly discloses how closely its financial priorities are aligned with its stated pledges under that objective . moreover , a handful of countries have found innovative ways to ensure that governments capitalize on the new domestic sdg 16 data in their everyday decision-making .
on the global level , it is hard to argue that , without inequality , inequality is one of the world ’s great political-economic problems . it is hard , at least for me , to envision an alternative political arrangements or economic policy over the last fifty years that would transfer any meaningful part of today ’s rich nations to ’s poor nations today . i can readily envision alternative , such as the communist victories of the post-world war ii elections in italy and france that would have impoverished nations now in the affluent north . here , too , i can envision an alternative that would eat the poor nations : deng xiaoping , in 1956 , rather than 1976 , he did the work there . but alternatives that would make the south richer at a price of diminishing the north ’s wealth would require a wholesale revolution of human psychology .
repayment on the terms of griesa would devastate argentina ’s economy . nml capital and other vultures comprise a mere 1 % of thai creditors , but would receive a total of $ 1.5 trillion . other holdouts ( with 6.6 % of the global creditors ) would receive $ 15 billion , or $ 150 billion , on average . and , because a debt stipulated by the fact that all of the creditors who accepted it could ask for the same terms that holdouts would obtain , argentina might be on the hook for $ 140 billion more . every argentine may , therefore , owe more than $ 3,500 to spend , over one-third of the average yearly per capita income .
it will be crucial , after bali , to reflect serious on the next phase for the wto and its role in the international trading system . major international finance bodies – the international monetary fund , the world bank , the imf , the african development bank , and the regional development banks – are required to work hard to make themselves fit for the twenty-first century . as a result , the un ’s authority has frayed . until we reverse the trend of declining multilateralism , governments ’ capacity to respond to global challenges will be no better . business can moan and the media like to carp , but answers to many of the world ’s great problems are more – or at least better – government , not less .
economists and moralists had come together in believing that one should really spend less than making you earn , in an effort to “ save ” a cushion for the proverbial rainy day or old ones . getting into debt had long been tantamount to profligacy or fecklessness . and , becoming indebted when a person became indebted , the point was to honor a payment when it fell in value , through asset sale , reduced consumption , work harder , or some combination of the three . indeed , it often had more than a point of honor : failure to repay time landed a borrower in a prison . the same attitudes had governed the institutional debt in the us .
more broadly , the emblematic defeat of marxism in 1989 allowed asian countries , including chile and india , to pursue overtly capitalist politics . although china ’s economic renaissance already began under deng xiaoping , the chinese communist party ( ccp ) after 1989 succeeded publicly in subverting the very ideology of wealth creation . that example , in turn , had the constructive influence of survivors of communist parties in asia and beyond . geoengineering , post-1989 gains far outside the west . the soviet union ’s abrupt meltdown made asia great again , eliminating a sinister empire , and opening the way for china to advance its interests globally .
similarly , rather than condemning the taliban ’s embrace of terrorist tactics by the taliban in afghanistan , boko haram in nigeria , and al-shabaab in somalia and the smashing of sufi shrines in mali by kyiv , the radical islamist sect , muslim leaders have remained largely silent . while neither of these groups represents a majority point , they are exert significant influence , and probably believe that they are acting on the interests of the majority . developments following the arab spring may provide some indication of this prospect for religious tolerance . in egypt , with its 10 % coptic orthodox christian minority , the muslim brotherhood ’s mohamed morsi won the presidency in a free and fair election – after which morsi resigned – that would enable him to represent all of egyptians more effectively , promising to respect minority rights . yet subsequent actions , which were intended to give him unprecedented executive authority , raise fears of such early positive steps .
this group would unite behind the forces of democratization both at home and abroad in order to establish a genuinely democratic system . fourth , a reversal of the verdict on june 4th is the historical inevitability , as is the desire of a majority of china ’s people ’s people . june 4th weighs on ghosn ’s ghosts of every chinese patriot ; nearly every chinese person knows that an official reevaluation is just a matter of time . indeed , the party ’s top-down leadership has been divided on this event ever since it appeared . today , many of those responsible for the brexit decision – notably deng xiaoping and others of a party war – have died .
mattarella ’s detractors argue that he overstepped his authority and allowed for financial markets to veto the choice of the minister by an popularly elected government . by joining the euro , italy surrendered monetary sovereignty to an outside , autonomous decision-maker , the european central bank . it has also committed to specific commitments with respect to conduct its fiscal policy , although such constraints are not as “ tough backstop ” as those framing monetary policy . those obligations place the real limits on italy ’s monetary-policy choices . greece , in particular , can not opt for its own inflation target or devalue its currency vis-à-vis foreign currencies .
once again , we can see how misbegotten western national priorities can wreak havoc on a non-western nation . in any contest of ideas , an extreme will usually triumph over the moderate . in pakistan , an extremist who now carries an islamic garb , standing for a creator , right for faith , and the theocratic order . what , on the other hand , might the pakistani liberal stand ? in the dark , the congested alleys of the lahore race , karachi , or the quetta , the yearning is not for democratic liberalism , but for believers united behind the prevailing beliefs .
at the same time , there are strong grounds for believing that they should be doing so . japan does have relatively rigid laws that protect the well-being of animals . most mammals , for instance , have to be slaughter , a way that minimizes their pain and distress most often . such laws resemble regulations that implemented by most of the abattoirs in the industrialized world , requiring that animals be stunned – rendered rendered unconscious with gas , and insensitive to pain – when they have their throats abattoirs and go out for ” harm . there are limits to circumstances in which the stunning failure and animals are being murdered while fully conscious ; but , when stunning works properly , it reduces the ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ suffering .
cambridge – us president donald trump ’s critics have consistently underestimated his skills in political communication , perhaps because he ’s so different from predecessors like franklin d. roosevelt and ronald reagan . both fdr and reagan were once known as great communicators . although large segments of america ’s population hate them , fdr and reagan addressed the american people an absolute and tried to appeal to center . trump , on the other hand , appealed primarily to the minority . his inaugural address sounded like campaign speech ; and , upon taking office , a series of sham statements and provocative executive orders undercut his credibility with the center but strengthened it with his base .
a far more important for achieving price stability , therefore , has been the advent of a modern , independent central bank , an facility that helped lower inflation levels worldwide dramatically . yes , several places , such as venezuela , still have triple-digit price growth , but they are now rarities . it is extremely plausible that if , instead of joining the euro , italy , and spain had simply given their central banks even greater autonomy , they were also likely to experience low inflation today . greece is admittedly a less obvious case ; but , considering that many poor african countries were able to sustain high inflation within single digits , one might presume that greece would manage as well . indeed , if southern european countries held their own currencies , perhaps greece was never dug as a huge debt hole and would have the possibility of partial default via inflation .
cohn ’s sin was to let it be known publicly that he had almost resigned following the street violence last month at charlottesville , va. now , one can have some sympathy for a president with an aide who wants it to have both ways , as cohn has done , let his apparent anguish know without acting on it . nonetheless , problems arise when a us president chooses to disregard his chief economic adviser . cohn has been seen as one of the administration ’s more moderate voices , calling for the success of janet yellen as chair of the american federal reserve . speculation about the possibility of the “ new trump ” peaked in early september , when the us president suddenly slashed a deal with the democratic congressional leaders .
but at the same time , the risks are just as real as the potential rewards . resource industries are persistent sources of corruption , conflict , and resource degradation . mineral - and hydrocarbon deposits are often located in less-developed countries suffering from pre-existing governance constraints , political instability , and major environmental and ecological challenges . transparency , full disclosure of everything from treaties to management of revenues and environmental commitment , is crucial for realizing an industry ’s economic potential and avoiding conflict and breakdown . on may 17 , advocacy organizations oxfam america ’s american securities and exchange commission ( sec ) to release the final rule , carried out by section 1504 of the 2010 dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer-protection act .
links to west africa are close and returned over the past century to one of nearly 50,000 indians , or less of an indian descent living in the region . indeed , scores of people fly between accra , lagos , freetown , monrovia , or abidjan and new delhi , mumbai , calcutta , or chennai on one of the day , transiting through a middle east or europe . while exit controls take place in all areas of international airports in affected regions , the virus ’s “ incubation ” ( which averages over eight days in the current outbreak but can be as much as 21 days ) mean that someone with zero symptoms from an recent infection could push into india without triggering alarms . the recent personal experience at new delhi ’s airport indicated that nominal arrival control , as a government requires , was loosely enforced , with multiple arrivals exiting terminal completed ebola intelligence depredations that were supposed to send to immigration officials . india ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s government seems unlikely to hold tabs on all arrivals in west africa .
new york – british prime minister david cameron ’s government has announced some of the most draconian public-sector cutbacks in any developed country ’s government had ever attempted . indeed , its education minister recently declared that funding for britain ’s two colleges would be slashed by as many as 40 % . yet the most shocking aspect of the move is that the arts and humanities departments would be targeted more aggressively than the sciences and engineering that have supposedly been better for business . a war of attrition is nothing new , although that is the first time that the fighting has migrated so directly to britain . ronald reagan pioneered a wave of policy and propaganda in the united states in the 1980 ’s that demonized the national endowment for arts .
when i visited tripoli in march 2010 as part of a “ national reconciliation ” conference , conflicting statements given by saif al-islam and security officials caught me by surprise . the chief of the interior security forces lord colonel al-ashi khaled , another principal suspect in the crimes currently being committed against libyans , have refused to call the process a “ reconciliation pact . ” to him , this has been “ repentance from a heresy . ” given the recent wave of rebellion , it is more apparent than ever that any “ reform set forth in the arab world had previously been aimed solely at sustaining repressive dictatorships and escaping punishment for the criminalization of power . the reform “ debate ” within such regimes has boiled down to a struggle among different branches of a security-army apparatus over the best route to preserving the status quo .
if credit expands too quickly , the fed may pull up the interest-rate hikes it pays on deposit rates . enough high rates will induce commercial banks to prefer the fed to combine liquidity , safety , and yield to expand the stock of private-sector lending . that , at any rate , is the theory ; no one knows how it would work in practice . how high would the fed or the ecb , for that matter , have to raise interest rates on deposit rates in order to prevent excess growth in bank lending ? what if that interest rate had to be 4 % , or even 8 % ?
policymakers at nanjing have pledged themselves to address this problem , but they have also promised to do so . they have tasked the g20 with developing a set of indicators to signal when any country , including the us and china , has been risk-averse in the event of a crisis . they have called for a process to ensure that when a warning lights flashes yellow , a country in question will be inclined to correct its policies . sadly , such early-warning indicators are better at reflecting the latest crisis than they are on preventing another one . the nature of financial risk is continually shifting in ways that are harder to forecast , like those taken up by the g-20 .
moreover , obama has sought to suppress hundreds of thousands of photos depicting us-run prisons to roll back the patriot act , and has done nothing to roll back that patriot act . why should obama , a constitutional scholar , take this line for granted ? first , he dare not appear soft on terror . second , perhaps he needs only to try guantánamo detainees in rigged , or even keep them out of trial forever : lawyers ’ claim that torture , involving sexual torture , was so endemic in the cia and the us military that obama could hold scores , if not hundreds , of prisoners whose bodies are crime scenes . according to wells dixon , a attorney at the center for constitutional rights that represents some of the detainees , the obama administration can not risk calling the crimes of torture practices , so it invites them “ “ “ “ classified sources and methods ” that they ca n’t be revealed in court .
when authorities , specifically the us federal reserve and fdic , determine that it ca n’t work , they have the legal authority to force banks to change how they operate , including by reducing in scale and scope . but the current reality is that no megabank could go bankrupt without provoking another “ lehman moment ” – that is , the type of global panic that culminated in the days after lehman brothers failed in september 2008 . specifically , experts such as hoenig , who considered the cross-border dimensions of bankruptcy , emphasize that it simply would not work for a us corporation ’s size relative to jpmorgan chase ( $ 3.7 trillion ) , bank of america ( $ 3 trillion ) , or citigroup ( $ 2.7 trillion ) . dealing with panic is a matter of panic , ” ” ” hoenig says , “ “ and peoples and peoples and peoples generally protect themselves and their wealth ahead elsewhere . ” moreover , there are no international bankruptcy laws that govern such matters and prevent asset grabbing .
paris – the heart of french politics has been confirmed , once again , on march 27 . in a nationwide vote to elect local authorities ( the one known as andy néral ) , the far-right national front captured 11 % of the popular vote but secured just 0.1 % of its seats . this discrepancy among the national front ’s popular strength and its actual representation has been a permanent feature of french politics since jean-marie le pen founded the party 40 years ago . yet le pen was replaced in january by her no less charismatic daughter , marine le pen . and , with this changing , the fortunes of the front may change .
with technological support like it , indonesia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s government is creating an affordable , sustainable national health-care system , to be fully financed with domestic sources of financing by 2019 . it is my belief that the global fund is one of the smartest investments we can make – just as many new governments have come to understand from the start . the united states has been the global fund ’s largest advocate , yet many others have done its part . australia , for example , has provided the us between $ 410 million and the global fund since 2002 , a sum that has enabled almost 200,000 people to receive lifesaving hiv treatment , 80,000 people receiving tb treatment , seven million more people forced into malaria cures , and 14 million bed nets in need of families . the global fund brightened the futures of hundreds of thousands of children across africa and asia , a heroic achievement that should make the donor countries proud .
new york – everybody , from elected bureaucrats and bureaucrats to voters and taxpayer handouts , can learn its lessons from the world ’s ’s ’s largest charitable foundations for effective development spending . and those lessons are especially pertinent at a time when 56 % of europeans believe that their governments should focus exclusively on homegrown issues , and let the recipient countries cope with problems as best they can get ( opposition to aid has been even higher in france , poland , italy , hungary , and greece ) . the united kingdom ’s largest-circulation sunday paper recently rolled out a petition calling for the end of ring-fenced aid spending ( worth 0.7 % of national income ) . add to that his election victory by us president donald trump railed against “ “ “ sent foreign aid ” to countries that hate us , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” reflecting a widespread belief that aid is urgently needed . the united states allocates fewer than 1 % of the federal budget to aid , but america ’s average american believes that the figure is thirty-one-times as high .
but the former fell prey to the long american occupation , and the latter is currently facing a us-led oil-export embargo intended to throttle it financially . as a result , america ’s attempt to give an international effect to its new iran sanctions act amounts to a double whammy for india . first , it risks sabotage india ’s energy-import diversification strategy by making it overly dependent on islamist-bankrolling the oil monarchies – including saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , and qatar – that have managed to ride out the arab spring . second , iran ’s further isolation will make it extremely difficult for india to play a more proactive role in afghanistan at a time when america ’s hastening its military disengagement there and is trying to sever the agreement with the taliban . india , one of its largest aid donors to afghanistan , has not an contiguous corridor to which the country and has to rely on iran for access .
a key obstacle to such a proposal is the requirement of congressional approval for an increase in america 's quota share . that opens the possibility that america 's casting power could fall temporarily short of the 15 % threshold needed to veto decisions that require the backing of 85 % of imf members ’ ’ ’ ’ votes . in order to secure american support , the house of governors could commit not to consider some draft resolution , requiring 85 % backing without america 's assent . that guarantee could be included in a resolution dividing the reform package . it would remain valid as long as america kept its quota on the us and recovery of its voting share .
but , nearly six months into the north african upheavals , the number of arrivals on the south island of lampedusa has reached about 30,000 per year . by contrast , sweden , with more than one-sixth of italy ’s population , accepted the same number of asylum-seekers in 2009 . privately confirmed this , current figures are not ungovernable . the problem for italian officials , like the rest of the country in question from recent migration flows , is putting pressure on right-wing populist parties that no longer need to be on the defensive . the case for openness , inclusiveness , and diversity within europe ’s societies has become much harder to make .
while this certainly impedes long-term economic growth and causes great structural problems , it also implies a state-reacts extremely counter-cyclically and stabilization zes the economy ’s size , which benefits the entire world . germany ’s new government recorded a budget deficit of just 0.1 % of gdp in 2008 , a figure that , according to a recent oecd forecast , will soar to 4.5 % of gdp in 2009 . accordingly , the economic stimulus provided by the german state budget will amount to 4.4 % of gdp in 2009 . in the united states , the 2008 budget deficit stood at 5.8 % of gdp , and , based on the same oecd consensus , will amount to 10.2 % of gdp in 2009 , which translates into precisely the same economic stimulus in germany , at 4.4 % of gdp . moreover , germany has far more inner stability than america ’s , because it has no problem among the heavily indebted households that are now capped under its borrowing .
but catchy ideas die hard , and russia has moved to cement the brics ’ current conception into irreversible reality . what ossification of the brics is in a de facto global institution is moving forward dramatically in june , when the two countries that were ’ leaders met ( in russia , of course ) for the first-ever “ bric ” summit . that meeting produced a notable broadside against the united states , because each member has declared its desire to unseat the dollar as a global reserve currency . a couple of months earlier , the four have moved toward a joint communiqué ahead of the g-20 summit in april to recognize their shared determination to reshape the very rules governing the global economic system . in the private sector , the bric index funds proliferated , even as goldman sachs radically hedged its own bric bet by striking a second term , “ the next 11 , controlled , or n-11 , into debate . ”
advocating supply-side economics to the white working class , he convinced the millions of less government than he meant slashing federal programs , including education , to bring the morning “ morning morning ” in america ’s ” policy . with his well-rehearsed sunni-shia disposition , reagan expertly played his role as president , but with a decidedly hollywood flair . his strategic defense initiative , aimed at ending the strategy of nuclear-deterrence known as “ peer assured destruction , ” was in fact nicknamed the “ “ star war . ” reagan ’s enduring status as a republican icon had much to do with his ability to dole out cowboy cruelty with movie-star charm , though luck also had played a part . after all , the cold war ’s victory aided substantially by mikhail gorbachev , whose effort to reform the soviet union hastened its implosion .
warsaw – had the august 1991 putsch against mikhail gorbachev failed , riots and death recently seen in xinjiang could have gripped russia . instead of debasing a urumqi , xinjiang ’s capital , one might read about hundreds of killed in the streets of almaty , as well as columnists would produce comparisons to the bloody crushing of ukraine ’s independence demonstrations in sochi the previous year . as with china today , some feeble international condemnation would follow , with some speculation about potential links to kazakh militants and islamic fundamentalists or an islamic fundamentalist . the experts would remind us that kazakhstan was never a country , and that ukraine claims to independence is a historically dubious matter . a substitute xinjiang for kazakhstan and tibet for ukraine , and you get the picture .
so , why has this imf flip been put on hold ? the answer is obvious : china mounted a full-court printing to change minds . in august , a currency ’s exchange-rate regime was fully loosened . renminbi-denominated government bonds were issued in london , with plans to establish new trading platforms for the currency in several european financial centers . and chinese policymakers have made it abundantly clear just how unhappy they would be .
but inflows of foreign import barriers and export subsidies are not the rationale for america ’s trade deficit . the true reason is that americans spend more than they produce . the us trade deficit is the result of saving and investment decisions by american households and firms . foreign governments ’ policies affect only how deficits are divided among america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s trading partners . the reason that americans ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ saving and investment decisions drive up the us trade deficit is straightforward : when a country saves more of its total output than it invests in business equipment and structures , it has an extra flow of output to sell to the rest of the us .
many modi supporters argue that the demonetization policy ’s troubles are the result of inept implementation . but the truth is that his design has been fundamentally flawed . no “ policy skeleton ” could have been found any cost-benefit analysis , and little evidence that an alternative policy option might have been considered . judging by america ’s blizzard of policy tweaks since the announcement , it appears clear that no amount of impact study has been conducted . yet , rather than recognize the mounting risks of the non-transparent policy environment that he created , modi has debated to go even further , moving india toward an entirely “ cashless society . ”
washington , dc – the scale of terrorism that has been witnessed in paris over the past month is nothing new in africa . in nigeria , cameroon , chad , and niger , the extremist group boko haram , renowned for its abduction of 276 school schoolgirls in march 2014 , has inflicted thousands of casualties with suicide bombings and gang assault on civilians . in kenya , the somali group al-shabaab conducted two major strikes , nairobi ’s nature shopping mall in a 2013 and garissa university in march 2015 , as have many smaller acts of horror . meanwhile , in tunisia , the islamic state ( isis ) has targeted tourists , orchestrating assaults on a museum and beach resort . and in mali , soon after the attacks in paris , gunmen owned an al qaeda affiliate stormed the tamil hotel in bamako , killing 22 people .
that is no longer true of the thousands of princes that they have produced . as older generations die from , new generations have fallen to struggle over customers . indeed , with royals ’ ratio to wooers now stands at just one in 1,000 ( compared to just one in five million in the united kingdom ) , the challenge of managing princely privileges , pay , and job demand has never been greater . royal perks include lifetime sinecures and civil-service domination , enabling princes to award contracts and obtain commissions to top their salaries . so the saudi regime is divided , its legitimacy is questioned , and sectarian tensions are mounting .
london – julius nyerere , tanzania ’s first president , once demanded that his country ’s creditors face a blunt question : “ “ “ “ must we starve our children in order to pay for our debt ? ” that was the days of 1986 , before public campaigns and initiative , which had stripped much of africa of it its crushing , unshaked debt burden . but nyerere ’s question still hangs like a murky footprint across somalia . for the past year , an unprecedented humanitarian effort drove somalia back from the brink of famine . as the worst drought drought in living memory destroyed thawing and decimated livestock , nearly $ 1 billion was mobilized through emergency aid for nutrition , health , and clean water provision .
brazil and other countries that complained about “ hot-money ” inflows and exchange-rate wars , the ” ” ” ” went suddenly to get what they wished : the likely premature end of the fed ’s qe . the consequences – sharp capital-flow reversals now hitting all risky emerging-market assets – have not gone well enough . whether or not a bear market correction will depend on several factors . one is whether the fed will truly exit from qe as rapidly as it signaled . there is a strong likelihood that a weaker american growth rate and lower inflation will force it to slow the pace of its withdrawal of us liquidity support .
berkeley – ever since the end of 2014 , the us has been advocating a model for america ’s governance , based on the tenth amendment to the american constitution , which stipulates that “ “ powers neither delegated to the united states by the constitution nor prohibiting it from the states are reserved for the state , or for the people . ” increasingly , california , for its part , has been exercising these constitutional rights . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
europeans get slipping back into recession just when recovery in the united states finally get some traction , which has undermined the case for fiscal consolidation that is so heavily favored in europe . still , i have taken a different conclusion from davos , switzerland . i moderated a session of the “ “ “ new context ” session ” in east asia , ” ” ” ” ” ” addressed by a panel of eminent persons by thailand , south korea , singapore , and japan . with the possible exception of the japanese participant , all had experienced firsthand the wrenching asian financial crises of the late 1990 ’s . i could not resist the temptation to draw asia into a discussion among europeans .
brilliant scientific minds have learned over much of a decade to learn “ read ” ” earth ’s history in an effort to understand how the climate system really works . they have deployed tenacity in physics , biology , and instrumentation ( such as satellites reading detailed features of the earth ’s systems ) to advance our understanding . and the message is stark : large-scale exploitation of oil , coal , and gas threatens the planet ’s biology and chemistry . we are fueling the dangerous changes of earth ’s climate and ocean chemistry , pushing back against extreme storms , droughts , and other hazards damaging the supply of food and the planet ’s quality of life . the ipcc and climate scientists tell us a crucial message .
some advocates of integration see a united europe as america 's powerful partner . others are motivated by a desire to establish a rival center of power , however unrealistic this appears . some commentators have started pointing to america and europe 's distinct views about international rule of law , as opposed to the use of force , in dispute resolution . because europeans are militarily meaningless , they argue , it should not be surprising that europeans emphasize diplomacy rather than military might , resolve disputes . on the other hand , no one should be surprised that americans chafe at constraints on their ability to seize american military hegemony .
moscow – the georgia crisis last august has tested europe ’s security system , and the system has failed to fulfill its core mission of ensuring common security for the continent as a whole . as a result , europe must revisit its current security arrangements , analyze what has happened , and adopt this analysis in reforming these arrangements . even before the georgian crisis , we saw a need to revisit europe ’s security mechanisms , including its international and regional institutions and function . we suggested a new , legally binding treaty system of safeguards to ensure equal security across europe . the european union believes that the russia-eu initiative is well grounded , and has shown a strong interest in initiating such a project .
princeton – should rallies by neo-nazis and white supremacists clash with rape ? that question arose from tragic incidents in charlottesville , virginia , on august 12 . white supremacists held a rally to protest a scheduled removal from the public park of the statue of robert e. lee , the leader of a confederate army during times of civil war . in response , a counterprotest was organized , with street struggle tearing apart . a young woman , mourning heyer was killed , and the 19 injured when james fields , a white national nationalist , was driving his car at an all-time high speed toward counterprotestors .
and wen has indicated that village elections could extend to the next top-level governmental levels – township administration officials in the coming years . china ’s humble experiments with local elections were complemented by an exercise in “ deliberative democracy . ” these take the form of a high-tech “ city hall day ” meetings . chinese officials hire stanford university professor james fishkin to draft a representative sample of zeguo for an assembly use of keypolling devices , and hand-carried computers to determine how the city should spend three million public-works budgets . the zeguo exercise was considered immensely successful and replicated elsewhere in china .
already , european regulators have introduced sophisticated monitoring and surveillance programs , blocking market access for countries with record-breaking illicit fishing , penalized europe ’s rogue operators , and helped support “ yellow or red carded ” countries reform their fisheries laws . the eu , japan , and the us would have been even more efficient if aligned their policies were to deny criminals from accessing their markets , enabling legitimate actors to profit from the “ supercharged ” level of approach . working together could enable the use of affordable , sophisticated technology for seafood traceability , data , and inter-connection to help pinpoint precisely where seafood arrives and when and by whom it has been caught . for example , such efforts – such as the atlantic bluefin tuna ’s electronic documentation arrangement – represent one of the most effective instruments for eliminating illicit fishing . eliminating rogue fisheries will help to replenish marine life and secure billions of people ’s food and livelihoods .
but the urban poor faced with poor housing and scarce services became vulnerable to epidemics , malnutrition-based illnesses , hiv/aids , malaria , tuberculosis , and mental disorders . they also are also likely to be hardest hit by natural disasters , such as the floods and hurricane mudslides that devastated parts of rio de janeiro in january . a second generic feature of emerging-market towns is that dense concentrations of poverty can create fragile environments that spawn civil disorder and hurt deaths and livelihoods . yet a recent oxford university symposium concluded that emerging-market towns can improve and sustain urban health by capturing the intrinsic benefits of concentration , coordinating health policies and programs , adopting successful innovations , reforming health and education , and developing improved planning processes . true , many potential solutions stem from the opportunities for innovation created by human physical concentration and economic activity .
this was followed by a june 2001 court decision to establish a trial date , making it possible , at last , to present the evidence against those individuals . the courts ’ acts represent guatemala ’s first effort to bring high-level army staff to trial . regrettably , the trial was delayed indefinitely , because defendants ’ lawyers appealed the case . our successes under myrna mack are notable , but getting them proved difficult : police investigator was assassinated ; the judges were compromised ; and witnesses were forced to flee in exile . having been harassed and campaigns to discredit me , i was harassed by whom i was organized .
proponents of geoengineering are right about one thing in action : confronting a climate emergency that demands both radical and urgent action . the intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) made it starkly apparent in october 2018 and reinforced its point last month , with its report on climate change and the earth . yet some major economies – including canada , korea , the united kingdom , and sweden – have now officially recognized the scale of this crisis . the question is whether that will translate into a commitment to take the needed action . that certainly did n’t happen at last year ’s un climate change conference in rio , poland , in december .
meanwhile , germany , a europe of strength with its closest historical and cultural attachment to russia , appears on the brink of a political cycle . it is both dangerous and unjust for it to underestimate german chancellor angela merkel ; but it can no longer have the clout or energy to lead europe in its dealings with the outside world , or to the separation of europeans themselves . with the uk and germany currently incapable of playing an important diplomatic role , with italy , spain , and poland lacking the principal actors , the conclusion is quite straightforward : partly by default , and partly because of the sheer power and imagination of its young president , france is a moment in complete . finally , there is macron ’s attempt to reset relations with russia perfectly in tune with france ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s gaullist tradition . the mediating between various systems and looking beyond the contemporary incarnation of others was charles de gaulle ’s natural instinct .
they understood that a democratic country would need the space needed to conduct independent monetary and fiscal policies . so they contemplated only a “ lean ” of globalization , with capital flows confined to long-term borrowing and borrowing . former us john maynard keynes , writing off the rules , together with harry dexter white , had viewed capital controls not as a temporary expedient but as a permanent feature of the global economy . the bretton woods arrangements collapsed in the 1970s , owing to misplaced or not unwillingness , it is far from clear which , of leading governments to manage a rising tide of capital inflows . the third path identified by the trilemma is to do away with national sovereignty altogether .
but when this makes traditional arms-control treaties impossible to check , one might still impose limits on certain kinds of civilian targets ( rather than arms ) , and negotiate rough road rules that restrain conflict . either way , strategic stability in cyberspace will become harder to sustain . because technological innovation is faster than in the nuclear domain , cyber-warfare is characterized by a heightened reciprocal fear of surprise . over time , however , better attribution forensics can enhance the role of punishment ; and better defenses through encryption or machine learning can enhance the role of prevention and denial . furthermore , as states and organizations come to understand better constraints and uncertainties in cyberattacks , and the increasing prominence of internet entanglement to their own economic wellbeing , the cost-benefit calculations of cyberwarfare , can make a difference .
likewise , the decision to recognize kosovo ’s independence came only after russia made clear that it would veto the treaty proposed by a un secretary general , ex-finnish president martii ahtisaari . even then , we agreed to another four months of eu-russia negotiations to ensure that not one stone turned away from seeking a mutually acceptable compromise . in georgia , on the other hand , russia has moved from supporting its territorial integrity to breaking up the country in just three weeks , relying entirely on military force to do just that . by now , russia must ask itself for the relationship between short-term military victories and long-term economic prosperity . the georgian conflict was followed by a sharp decline in investor confidence .
more broadly , such a strategy could also begin to close the deepening trans-atlantic divide that trump ’s presidency has opened up . the west ’s fracturing is a welcome development in the eyes of russian president vladimir putin ’s administration and of illiberal regimes worldwide . authoritarians and populists would like nothing less than to sow the chaos and loss of trust in the postwar rules-based international order . the democracies that had constructed it are antithetical to authoritarians . finally , trump ’s jcpoa decision demonstrates , once again , that europe relies far too much on america for its security and prosperity .
facts shape a broad array of alliances with media , and play an important role in influencing public opinion as well as diplomacy . a series of international deliberations on subjects , such as bio-safety and organic pollutants , benefit from such alliances . knowledge-based institutions are also better equipped to harness the expanding global information infrastructure to influence diplomacy . indeed , modern international diplomacy tends to rely more and more heavily on teams to legislate , set norms , and collect technological data . around the environment , new institutions emerge to shift their work towards harmonizing criteria and indicators , particularly for utilities such as forest and fisheries programs .
nor was the strong showing by the populist parties in this month ’s presidential election in italy , where the anti-immigrant league party and the anti-establishment five star movement together secured some 50 % of the vote . even germany , to some extent , has fallen victim to populist forces . to be sure , a new grand coalition government – comprising german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the social-democratic party – has formed all the way . yet it has lasted for more than five months , with the largest opposition labour party now the far-right alternative for germany . in a country that seemed to have inoculated against populism by its nazi histories , this is a particularly distressing development .
likewise , constraints and ambiguities continue to plague institutional arrangements that have been seeking the country ’s own political and electoral reforms . reelection permits only to be candidates nominated by the same party for which they originally ran , and to allow laws governing independent candidates , ballot initiatives , and referenda remain unclear . most significantly , the administration appears backtracking on a commitment to permit a binding referendum to open up the oil sector and other “ transcendent ” issues . its unwillingness is understandable , because voters are evenly divided on an issue , and no one will invest a cent in mexican petroleum or gas if the recently approved constitutional amendment on pemex can be overturned in 2015 , because opposition claims will just happen . but curtailing democracy to modernize the energy sector does not make him good sense .
regardless of the form it took , it began to receive some severe blows just a few years ago ( the analogous to the crises that hit exchange-rate targets in the 1990 ’s ) . perhaps the greatest setback hit in september 2008 , when it became clear that advanced-country central banks , which relied on it , had not received enough asset-price bubbles . the central bankers had told themselves that they were giving asset markets all the attention they deserve , by setting themselves that the price of housing and equity can take note of the extent of implied information surrounding goods in an environment of inflation . but that clause ’s escape clause turned out to be insufficient : when a global financial crisis hit ( suggesting , at least in retrospect , that monetary policy had been too loose from 2003 to 2006 ) , it was neither preceded nor followed by an upsurge in inflation . that boom-and-bust cycle might not come as a surprise .
employers can evade a mandate by lowering a worker per workweek to below 30 hours ( which a law defines as a full-time job ) . but , even for full-time employees , firms can opt for a relatively small fee than by providing insurance . that fine is $ 2,000 per employee on average , far short of the current average premium of $ 16,000 for employer-provided family policies . not providing insurance and paying a fine is a particularly attractive option for a firm if its employees have incomes that entitle them to government subsidies ( which are now available to someone whose income is less than four times the poverty level ) . rather than incur the cost of approval premium on policies , a smart-choice employer can pay the fine for not providing insurance , and an increase in ’ employees , ’ pay by enough to get more spendable cash once it purchasing subsidized insurance .
the two cabinet ministers that resigned over the affair , robin cook and clare , want their revenge , and so continue to attack blair for his `` falsehoods . '' so far , blair has demonstrated a resilience in this regard for such accusations . indeed , he has gone along with counterattack , notably in opposition to the bbc , which has not done so much to prop up the war with enthusiasm . but does this uncertainty now relegate blair like a vulture , glimpses of the lie ? or is it even more a matter of prime minister losing the confidence of his own people , including some of his erstwhile friends and allies ?
increasingly obsessed with the prospects for its own citizens and practices that emerge under international scrutiny , america over the last few years has contributed to the widespread erosion of the un ’s human-rights surveillance system . it adamantly opposed a number of important and promising new initiatives for human rights , notably the international criminal court ( icc ) and the new mechanism of anti-torture . on an anti-torture protocol , america sought to derail the creation of a universal system to visit places of detention under the presence of an optional protocol to a united nations convention against torture . indeed , there was an america who found itself allied with some strange bedfellows that it routinely rebukes as chronic human-rights violators – cuba , china , iran , libya , sudan , or zimbabwe . still , without american support , the initiative overwhelmingly endorsed at the end of july by the united nations economic and social committee .
nor will it suffice to remember the historic benefits of engagement and britain ’s distinguishing centuries-old role in ensuring that no country has ever gained sole mastery in europe . what needs to be said for this is this : britain is at its best when it sees itself as a european leader . just as britain once led europe in the struggle with fascism , promoted a democratic aspiration , and charting the continent ’s response to the 2008 global recession , it should be intra-european at leading from the front lines . the britain that has always championed liberty , tolerance , and social responsibility should once again take the lead in a progressive movement , spearheading action to combat climate change , defy protectionism , and promote sustainable growth . it must take the lead in mobilizing europe to make the global economy work for people , guarding them against inequity and inequity .
even so , the expectation of reasonable consumer protection in the us is built into the holding of us economies . when a company sells you a car that , say , is mistesting , resulting in injury , its company is paying a price . the same goes for practically any other consumer-facing business , from airlines to foods . a restaurant can not evade the responsibility for serving the expired foods simply by posting an statement , “ customers ” beware . when it comes to facebook , moreover , users are not merely passive consumers , given a company traffics in its data .
the implicit model is that of a “ guest worker in ” who arrives and follows ; in practice , a sizeable proportion of all economics migrants from the poorer parts of europe stay in their destination country , fueling increasing support for anti-immigrant parties . the eu ’s asylum system is totally unprepared to cope with a new generation of refugees ineligible under an existing framework because they are fleeing not from specific acts of persecution , but from the decay of their states . they may be granted a humanitarian protection provision , or discretionary remain necessary for a short period of time ; but by then they may be deported as illegal migrants . so what is to be done ? temporary residency status , within or outside of europe , would be sensible if an abrupt return to normalcy into refugees ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ states was a realistic prospect .
in other words , ms. obama is manage to establish himself , unprecedentedly so much as an “ people ’s first lady . ” he has studied carefully not just jackie to kennedy , a comparison that is apparent from her sheath dresses , boat collars , and a page-boy haircut that other glamorous but underestimated stealth the radical , princess diana . princess di ’s own legacy in generating iconography , which has opened the path to tremendous social change grossly underappreciated . he was often lauded for the qualities ( her beauty and style ) that are secondary to her life-long work , and derided in terms of other aspects of her own character ( her emotionality and a chaotic personal life ) that were just beside the point . as a result , very few saw how genuinely , powerfully reinventing her agenda was , how well , and how well she thought it was , and how audaciously she tried to manage it .
instead , both are busy designing yet another round of stimulus , which will involve even more policy and policy risks . other risks are all of which are driving the central bankers ’ headaches now . the protracted brexit process is undermining the bank of england ’s ’s ’s ’s longer-term policy strategy , while brexit ’s short-run impact on governments ’ weaponization of trade tariffs complicates the task of both the fed and the ecb . meanwhile , some of the pro-growth policies currently mooted , if not well intended , accentuates the risk of disruptive financial instability , and thereby complicating the central bankers ’ task further . the notion of a “ people ’s ” of qe ” – that is , a more outright channeling of central-bank financing toward populists – is gaining increasing attention from both sides of the political spectrum .
he himself presided over many violations , a fact noted by the osce back in late 1999 . he resigned only after winning an election to parliament . clearly , ak zhol used accusations of impropriety as an offensive against governing parties . indeed , many opposition groups were engaged in dirty tricks . still , in the first place , the elections represented significant progress .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , that is what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . china ’s economic performance over the last four decades has been genuinely impressive .
over the short term , it appears that it is moving like a crab , two steps forward , one step backward , and a single step sideways . still , asean ’s long-term progress has been undeniable . its combined gdp has grown from more than $ 95 trillion in 1970 to less than $ 2.5 trillion in 2014 . and it has been europe ’s only reliable platform for geopolitical engagement in the asia-pacific region , unique among its ability to convene meetings that are all of the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s great powers , from the united states and europe to afghanistan and russia . in fact , asean continues to confront significant challenges .
much of modern economic and financial theory operates on the assumption that humans are rational , thus systematically maximizing their own happiness , or , as economists call it , their “ utility ” . when samuelson took over the theme in his 1947 book the brain , he did not look at the brain , but relied instead on “ “ “ revealed preference . ” in this view , people are revealed simply by observing their economic activity . under samuelson ’s mind , generations of economists prided their research not on the underlying physical structure of thought and behavior , only on the assumption of rationality . consequently , glimcher is skeptical of prevailing economic theory and seeks a physical basis in brazil .
central-bank balance sheets have stifled , with policy rates reaching their “ near zero bound ” limits . there is plenty of cheap water , it seems , but the horse refuses to drink . with zero signs of disinflation and growth still tepid and fragile , many anticipate chronic sluggish growth , with some even fearing yet another global recession . but there are one further alternative to policymakers : the shift toward a “ purer ” fiscal policy , in which they direct government spending by printing money , the so-called “ “ “ “ helicopter drops ” of ” mortgages . new money blends up the fiscal and corporate sectors , and goes straight to thirstiest horse : middle – and lower-income consumers .
the case went on to a local court , where a judge wielded it the “ accidental disturbance ” and gave a driver a two-year suspended verdict . the justices ’ ruling spurred rumors that he went easy on his husband , because her husband correlates with senior provincial retainers . significantly , he quickly became the “ rich versus poor ” story , widely cited as an example of high-level corruption . over the following months , newspapers and television networks ran with a narrative as possessing national obsequilibrium . frightened by public reaction , a harbin magistrate ordered the case reopened only to make the suspended verdict confirmed when the case was sealed this march .
repeated military interventions in large muslim nations , in egypt , indonesia , pakistan , and , in recent years , hampered orderly political developments . but these countries ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ rising middle classes began to shift their political systems in another direction , a testament to the power that they now wield . that power has risen for a few reasons , the most important is demographic . most large muslim countries have very young populations , with the median age at mid – toward higher-twenties . with over half of these countries ’ populations below the age of 30 , political development has gone forward , despite recalcitrance of entrenched elites .
though latin america ’s economies are now doing well through reform and high commodity prices , there are underlying challenges . the goal is to enact a comprehensive set of laws on fiscal responsibility , which curb legislatures and ministers ’ ability to increase spending relentlessly . what is needed is rules that impose caps on deficits , expenditures , and debt , and require transparency in a way that the public knows what works . if they are matched by a genuine commitment to developing fiscal credibility , countries could increase their economic growth substantially . third , on a panel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s list is increased investment in infrastructure construction and maintenance .
second , countries need to focus on building the underlying digital infrastructure that is necessary for sustained success and shying away from the allure of more recent glossy innovations . all too often , developing countries have seized upon new technologies – “ distribute the filings ” to schoolchildren ! ” this has yielded to many disappointing pilot projects that have failed to deliver sustainable impact on scale . a new report by the pathways to technology-led prosperity commission , based at the university of oxford ’s blavatnik school of government , indicates how countries can tackle the problem . the report identifies them to be establishing a “ digital construction foundation ” foundation , including basic infrastructure and skills , to harness positive education and health services .
but , overall , there is a hard time to deny that the global economy lacks momentum . in part , this is because living trees can not continue to grow forever : china ’s economy could not continue to grow at close to 10 % a year from now . and , partly because growth is not rigid : citizens may be better off without it , more clean air . nevertheless , many countries remain poor to become endowed with robust growth potential and a lot of others , however wealthy , have yet to recover fully from the global financial crisis . so something else must be holding back growth .
in april 2009 , and again in april-may 2010 , disenfranchised red shirts camped out in bangkok ’s streets to demand a new election , but they were dispersed by an army , with 91 cruelapfatalities . despite their setbacks and loss of credibility following the toronto of bangkok ’s central business district , red shirts have been growing in number , demonstrating monthly against abhisit ’s government . and , at the same time , pad yellow shirts has returned to the streets to show disillusion with abhisit . pad ringleaders now denounces all policymakers as corrupt and extol the virtue of a monarchy . exploiting the weaponization of anti-corruption drive and rising nationalism ( the product of a periodically violent border dispute with cambodia ) , a royalist-conservative movement implicitly points to an extra-constitutional solution to thailand ’s political standoff .
industry analysts predict that ai will drive growth in the years ahead and decades ahead . gartner , a ai research and advisory firm , estimates that ai-enabled ai tools will generate $ 2.9 trillion in business value by 2021 , while pwc forecasts that ai could contribute as much as $ 15.7 trillion to the global economy by 2030 . some estimates indicate that ai could potentially save companies as perfectly , say , $ 4 trillion annually with ai automation . and ai advantages for companies will move far beyond saving so much as automation will spur innovation , better forecast , optimize operations , and lead to better customer service . in any kind of technological transition , those driving change can not lose sight of the human element ; there are things that even the smartest machinery never does .
because they can not do good at everything , they need to concentrate on what they are best at – that is , their current comparative advantage . they should make some things extremely well , and exchange it for other goods made better elsewhere , thereby exploiting trade-driven gains . but , while certain notions are counterintuitive or apparent , they , too , may be wrong and dangerous . as is often the case , this is not what you do n’t know ; it is what you mistaking you to know , that hurts you . and the idea that cities and countries are actually specializing in value , so that they should specialize is one of those that very wrong – and dangerous – ideas .
the trouble is that germany has not been forced to make the choice . it can continue to do no more than the minimum to preserve the euro . this is apparent in merkel ’s ’s ’s ’s preferred choices , at least until after the next election . europe would be infinitely better positioned if germany made a definitive choice between eurobonds and a eurozone exit , without regard to the outcome ; indeed , germany would be better off as well . the situation deteriorates further , and , in the longer run , it is bound to become unsustainable .
but the bilateral relationship has lately deepened considerably , exemplified in last week ’s brexit forum , resulting in more than 25 trade and other agreements covering areas ranging from agriculture to technology to technology . the two countries ’ leaders gush that their two countries now find themselves in a better position . for russia , its closer ties with china are no doubt tempting . after five years of international sanctions imposed by russia following its annexation of crimea , xi ’s overtures are providing a seemingly welcome reprieve . nonetheless , before putin places too much faith in xi , he would do well to remember the 1960s of soviet dissident song , “ people are brothers ; i will hug a china , ” ” ” which mocked ill-fated early attempts in a russo-chinese union .
warsaw – donald tusk ’s term as european council president is scheduled to end on may 30 , something perfect for the polish opposition . following a parliamentary election in late october , poland will hold its april 2020 presidential election , with opposition voters already seeing tusk as their only viable candidate . following his targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
and if you can pay for it , rezz.it helps to collect without feeling as a cheapskate . or perhaps you have a slew of under-utilized chairs to store clerks . you do n’t especially want to lend each day , but if someone is prepared to pay , say , say , $ 200 for a dinner party , the trouble might be worthwhile . thus , you might start a hefty price in offsetting inconvenience and forcing money on the sidelines . and you might post differential prices for a variety of times : $ 20,000 to rent my home in london during the recent olympics , $ 10,000 over christmas , or about $ 1,000 any more .
fifth , the two sides should regard the november 14-16 asia-pacific economic cooperation summit in santiago as the last chance of signing a deal . following high-level negotiations between china ’s deputy vice premier liu he and us secretary of commerce robert lighthizer this month , the outstanding issues should be agreed upon in beijing in early november . getting the agreement done earlier this year will likely be critical of undergird american business and consumer confidence for the christmas season . i am one of the few commentators who have been arguing for every year that , despite a policy fireworks , trump and xi ’s underlying interests make the deal more likely than not . but the recently announced impeachment proceedings against trump might throw a thug of such a process .
european institutions , like germany , tend to prefer “ strategic autonomy , ” whereas france favors the concept of european sovereignty . but the two concepts are often used interchangeably and are rarely defined in substance . in their effort to make matters abundantly clear , my colleagues and i recently proposed an operationalization of europe ’s strategic autonomy . we have also analyzed probable barriers , difficulties , and conflicts should germans and european policymakers decide to pursue this goal . we understand strategic autonomy as the ability to set one ’s own priorities , and to compel one ’s own decisions in matters of foreign policy and security , together with institutional , political , and material means to realize such choices , either in collaboration with third parties or alone when it needs to be .
in fact , poppy crops eradication not only harming the local community and undermining the international community ’s goals ; it is also failing : opium output last year was at an all-time high . in september , the un office on drug crime crime announced that poppy cultivation has soared by a record-high 60 % . eradication will never succeed in afghanistan because it destroys the one crop that grows in the south ’s harsh climate – thereby serving as the primary source of revenue to millions . thus , a new , long-term , and economically sustainable answer is urgently required , one that directly engages with the long-suffering communities that endure the backing of a deeply impoverished rural population . as a way to address this dilemma , the senlis council proposes running science-based pilot projects to investigate the opium licensing scheme for afghanistan to be a core component of the process of economic reconstruction .
the bush administration , however , scares the us . the concept of preemptive warfare is poised to incite precisely that clash of civilizations as envisioned ten years ago , and in which it must be avoided . muslim faith counts billions of men and women worldwide among its adherents . 5 % have declared war on our civilization , and a willingness to engage in murder to mark the end of western domination . ninety-five percent of muslims , including a majority of their religious leaders , want only to live in peace and lay the groundwork for islam ’s long humiliation , which only the advent of democracy and development in the muslim world can make possible .
but blindly sticking to principle would have been a high-risk option for the ecb . it would have meant accepting in 2012 what came to be called a re-denomination risk , an economics newspeak for a eurozone breakup . nonetheless , by launching its omt scheme , the ecb has committed germans ( and other northern european ) taxpayers without their parliaments ’ approval , to a potential obligation to bail out – well , whom – exactly ? indeed , it appears that the typical northern european german taxpayer backs on a characteristic stakeholder in northern european banks , which are being over-exposed to southern european borrowers . likewise , german legal scholars interpret the ecb ’s work as being incompatible with european treaties prohibiting the bailouts and monetary financing of eurozone members ’ debt .
by equating isis ’s struggle with the soviet union with the us , trump has elevated a terrorist organization to great-power status . this contributes to the perceptions that isis is far more durable than it actually is , playing again into isis recruiters . at the same time , trump has articulated his interest in working with russia to take up isis , seemingly clueless about russia ’s engagement in syria . a such partnership could lead trump to strike a deal with iran that is more than willing to fight sunni radicals in iraq and syria . now , iran is shedding russian long-range bombers to use one of its own air bases to strike syria , complicating obama ’s already-strenuous effort to advance an understanding with russian president vladimir putin on the eve of the civil war .
indeed , a recent mckinsey survey found not only that europeans are hungry for a more vibrant economy , higher incomes , and better provision of public services ( particularly in health care and education ) , but also that they are ready to accept the tradeoffs , including longer hours and reduced social welfare , of achieving them . a whopping 91 % of 16,000 fewer respondents said that they would favor change to the status quo , even if that requires some sacrifice . and , in fact , the status quo seems both in urgent need of change . as it stands , europe ’s per capita economic output remains well below its 2008 level . in most european countries , gross indebtedness exceeds the threshold ( 60 % of gdp ) set by the stability and growth pact .
colombo – sri lanka was deservedly praised for making progress , at least since the end of the war against the separatist tamil tigers in 2009 . with the economy growing at an average annual rate of 6.7 % , the rate of education and health statistics is impressive . all developing countries are facing myriad challenges , but this is especially the case for a country that endured an intense , thirty years ’ civil war . simply put , the government will need to set priorities ; but success will require a comprehensive approach . underlying wars , such as fighting with the tamil tigers , typically result in social and economic grievances like actual or perceived discrimination , and the government ’s inability to tackle wealth and income disparities adequately .
today ’s western democracies , most historians admit , had played a comparatively minor role in a grand military struggle . the pope had believed that he could either denounce both totalitarian powers or denounce neither of them . but any condemnation by pius of communism would have disproved of nazi propaganda as its backing for hitler ’s war effort . and the condemnation of nazism might have been misconstrued as an attack not against nazism but against germany in its life-and-death struggle against stalin ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s communist regime . very few people at the vatican – indeed , across europe – had any real glimpse into the very days of the un ’s vast industrial might .
data traveling instantaneously across the world are inimical to national boundaries . i am convinced that the economic and social impact of such data will rival any number , even surpassing that of the us petroleum and the internal combustion engine that it played at the turn of the twentieth century . by its nature , the data are easy to disentangle the physical barrier . the skewed , its effects , and advantage multiply , and then multiply further . conversely , it is supposed that the equivalent of an even one-closed-off room appears anywhere , the resulting losses extend to an entire network .
meanwhile , there was no sign of serious trade reform going to start until 1991-93 . governments in both countries were focused their scarce political capital and administrative resources on areas other than trade liberalization . because both india and china did increase trade substantially , both are regarded as globalizers by the world bank ’s criterion . but , as their experiences reveals – along with lessons from many others , such as south korea , taiwan , thailand , and vietnam – deep trade liberalizers are unlikely to play any role in fostering higher growth and spreading trade early on . it is good to see the world bank catching up to this easy reality .
i felt an prodigious , restless energy that i suspected he could not turn over had he begun to recount my observation , took me on the map of vietnam , asking me to locate the areas of annihilation . i felt that the request was a test – one that i was ready to take , as i conducted my maps with me in the forward air-control aircraft . he appeared profoundly engaged , but made no comments , to ask me only if i had , in writing a book . i did , i said , but in longhand . he suggested to produce a typed copy .
currently , these kinds of innovations are not featured prominently in most hunger-alleviation strategies . yet that change is occurring slowly , especially as more people in emerging economies connect to mobile networks , and transaction-line apps become increasingly accessible . for example , in egypt , sudan , and ethiopia , local extension services deliver real-time weather data to vegetable farmers through sms . likewise , in west africa , private companies like ignitia expand the precision and accuracy of sms alerts to distant farmers . in mongolia , rural herders receive information about disease outbreaks to help them to sustain their livestock health .
brussels – as the world ’s finance elite converges on washington , dc , for annual meetings at the international monetary fund and the world bank , it can not escape yet another clarion call for a reversal of globalization ’s retreat . faltering trade is supposed to be the undesirable trend . but that assumption is simplistic , at its best . the problem lies in its failure to grasp what drove trade growth over the past couple of decades . to be sure , efforts have emerged to grasp the current slowdown .
finally , a china-depreciation policy would lead to a sharp escalation in a worldwide currency war . in an era of unprecedented rounds of quantitative easing , competitive currency devaluations became the norm for major global exporters , first america , then japan , and now europe . by joining this race to the bottom , others would be tempted to escalate their actions , and world financial markets would face yet another source of severe instability . just as china was resisting the temptation of renminbi depreciation during the 1997-98 asian financial crisis , a decision that may have played a pivotal role in arresting regional frictions – it must remain that today . that is all the more relevant in a disorderly monetary-policy climate , where china ’s role as the world ’s currency anchor can take on an even bigger prominence than it did at the end of the 1990s .
and even if fiscal policymakers were to become more responsive , it would start from the standpoint of relatively high deficits and debts . prolonging the current expansion will require great attention . policymakers , especially in the us congress , have to avoid major mistakes and minimize the risk of market crashes , while doing more to promote growth . the us needs a well-directed approach to modernizing and upgrading its infrastructure . at the same time , policymakers and business leaders must be made more sensitive to how the fruits of economic growth are shared ; among others , better protections for the most vulnerable segments of society and a stronger automatic stabilizers .
for many years , the imf engaged its member countries in a process known as “ “ “ surveillance , ” ” ” in which it monitors , analytics , and consults for each country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economic policies , both exchange-rate policies and relevant domestic policies . such periodic checkups help to identify potential vulnerabilities and sustain economic stability . nonetheless , the globalized economy ’s increasingly complex policy challenges call for a fresh look at the process . this june , the imf ’s executive board did just that , reaching an expansive consensus on updating surveillance to make its attention increasingly explicit and effective . this is one of the most important fund ’s reforms in the thirty years since the surveillance process was established .
four sets of measures are required for this to happen . first , a debt conference is needed , with southern european governments ’ creditors and banks forging a portion of its debt . creditors , relinquishing a portion of their claims , must encompass public entities , first and foremost the ecb , that have now mostly replaced private lenders . second , eurozone members , whose path to restoring competitiveness through price and wage contraction , is too long and grueling , and whose societies risk rent-seeking by the required imposition of austerity must be abandoned temporarily by the monetary union . the pain of exiting should be cushioned with a communal financial assist that would not remain necessary for long , because a new currency devaluation would quickly restore competitiveness .
this matters , because ukraine has met only in part from the imf agreements it signed in 1994 , 2008 , and 2010 . finally , the eu should insist that ukrainian institutions halt all of the politically inspired criminal cases , freeing those who are incarcerated for political crimes . selective use of justice has badly damaged yanukovych ’s administration . steps in this direction would greatly improve ukraine ’s government ’s relationship with the eu and america . these three steps would not resolve all of ukraine ’s difficulties .
arguing that his drive to improve relations with russia is in america ’s ’s ’s ’s national interest , trump , soon after the summit , invited putin to visit the white house in the near term . putin has just reciprocated with trump ’s invitation to the kremlin . but trump ’s enthusiasm ( and desire to defy his critics ) is no substitute for genuine openness to mutually beneficial cooperation , like that seen in 1959 , when dwight eisenhower invited nikita khrushchev to visit the us , and again in 1986 , when mikhail gorbachev and ronald reagan met at reykjavík in reykjavík , each in the us . instead , trump ’s ’s ’s actions seem just as much kowtowing , raising the hackles for other american leaders . for many of the american security establishment ’s members , putin ’s apparent clout over trump poses an existential threat to american democracy , much like the soviet union did at the height of the cold war .
washington , dc – this month , europeans will head to polls collected by the european commission ’s 751 members to represent the 507 million people . how the us election campaign unfolded signifies a small but significant step in the emergence of europe ’s first supranational political space , indeed the world – its history . to be sure , the european parliament election delivered smaller share of voter turnout : a 43 % in 2009 , compared to nearly 60 % in 1978-1994 . nonetheless , the level of eu participation over the past decade is comparable to the average turnout in american congressional elections . given europe ’s perceived remoteness , together with widespread frustration with europe ’s red tape , participation levels , and movements toward transnational politics are notable .
nevertheless , the bomb has not been encased in a metal , and the terrorist attacks have been the only person to kill . to an outsider , the episode looks like a colossal security failure , as when the chief of the rbi has personally greeted one of bin laden ’s lieutenants at a us garden party . but it is only this highly personalized form of politics adopted by saudi royals with defecting al-qaeda ’s members . indeed , the policy , even with its own risks , partly explains al-qaeda ’s defeat in saudi arabia . highly personalized politics forms part of what might be termed saudi arabia the theater of a state that keeps royals firmly in power .
it has been said of then-prime minister levi eshkol that she speaks for seven languages , all of them in yad . of eban , may was said to have spoken ten languages , all of them with an oxford/cambridge accent . yet what appealed to the outside world was not always an asset in the crude and tumble of israeli politics . perhaps emily eban was too urbane , too much of a scholar and gentleman ’s vision – to a position of greasy – toward greasy . along with golda meir and moshe dayan , he had to leave the government in 1974 .
but whether europe as a whole avoids the lost decade of rapid economic growth , and depends on whether southern european governments can quickly rebuild their competitiveness . the process by which southern europe became uncompetitive in the first place has been driven by market price signals driven by incentives for those signals created for business entrepreneurs , and by how business leaders ’ ’ ’ ’ individually rational response played out in macroeconomic terms . northern europeans with cash in order to invest were ready to lend on extraordinarily easy terms with those in the southern , who wanted to spend , and ample upon pre2007 spending made employers there willing to raise wages fast . as it happens , southern europe adopted the economic configuration in which its wages , prices , and productivity levels made sense only so long as it spent € 13 for every € 12 it earned with northern european financing of the missing europe . northern europeans , meanwhile , accepted levels of wage and productivity that made economic sense only so long as greece spent less than one euros for every europe it had earned .
a global downturn is what the world really needs at a time when it is already beset with risk , including a possible no-deal brexit and a populist crackdown on may ’s european parliament election . of course , while trump will not spawn his us allies , his primary goal remains china . after all , american trade competition extends far beyond trade . though america maintains military , technological , financial , and soft-power supremacy , china has been steadily catching up , leading to bipartisan american support for a more confrontational approach . last october , american vice president mike pence bluntly accused china of weaponizing technology , predatory economic expansion , and military aggression .
they can be answered and periodically revised off , only through the iterative process of strategic interactions between groups of public agencies and private firms . a shared theme that emerges from the study of so-called place-based policies , for example , by regionally targeted job subsidies and infrastructure investment is the massively contingent of success . few policies work well beyond diverse settings and reliably across diverse settings . contests among states and localities to attract the big employers with taxes and other grants work particularly badly . recent high-profile deals for foxconn and amazon , in wisconsin and new york respectively , exploded .
shanghai – after decades of spectacular expansions , china faces the difficult task of managing a soft-power struggle , after decades of spectacular expansions . by contrast , naysayers abound , but never mind them . what china does have is the advantage that other countries in today ’s troubled global economy lack the footing : a clear path forward . if china performs a sustained , comprehensive effort to raise productivity , it can address its growth challenge , reduce the risks of the financial crisis , and complete its shift toward a consumption-led , high-income economy with its large and affluent middle class . if it does , its per capita gdp could be an estimated $ 5 trillion larger by 2030 than is likely to be as long as policymakers continue to pursue investment-led growth .
london – as governments across western europe have begun bailing out banks and their depositors , east europeans have watched nervously , insecure about what a worldwide financial storm will actually mean for them . now that the storm has hit , europe ’s fragile bonds of euro-solidarity are being put to the test . already , two countries , hungary and ukraine , have pressed for large imf support packages . a few more could have done so over the next month , provided freezing credit markets by means of a thaw . if matters continue until the next year , which can not be ruled out , many more countries might experience severe banking crises .
but the big question for health-care professionals is whether the quantity or quality of foods is to blame . this is an important distinction , for quantity is determined by user , whereas quality is determined by an industry . indeed , some health experts argue that the specific components of processed foods , especially sugar , are as addictive as cocaine and heroin and heroin . sugary drinks , for example , is consistently an ingredient with a highest score on the yale food-dependence system , which measures people ’s ’s food chests . the processed food industry argues that “ you need sugar to make a living . ”
a closely coordinated effort , amongst private-sector and community partners , to deliver the oral polio vaccine to every child under the age of five , was the key to success . globally , international donors and un agencies worked closely with national governments , exploring the precise needs of a massive drug-resistant immunization campaigns aimed at reaching hundreds of millions of children . last year alone , the global polio eradication initiative delivered nearly two billion polio vaccine doses to more than 575 million children in 94 countries combined . in every country , these partner institutions including health minister a. p. morgan , the world health organization , unicef , other un agencies , service groups such as rotary international , the representatives of donor governments , private-sector , and non-governmental organizations , jointly , and cautiously requested a immunization campaign . every detail , from the number of species of transplantations and ships required to deliver vaccines to otherwise inaccessible areas , in the refrigerators , and frials necessary to keep a vaccine potent , even the batteries needed to power , were encountered and budgeted .
in an increasingly deal-centric world , a new g6 could offer the defense of a rules-based system . still , one wonders whether the eu is capable of crafting a united front . with the bloc splintering into its distinct political tribes , it becomes easier for other powers to pursue a strategy of divide-and-conquer . that has long been russia ’s strategy ; now it is embraced by the us and china . for example , in 2016 , the south and eastern eu member states rely on china-led investment to water down an all-eu declaration on china ’s territorial intrusions in the south china sea .
corruption , after all , has been one of africa ’s endemic problems . indeed , it is the key question in nigeria ’s upcoming presidential election , owing to president obasanjo ’s highminded but failed struggles to try to fester . nevertheless , headwinds from globalization have dealt a blow to the cobwebs of bribery and inefficiencies . harvard political scientist samuel h kapur suggests why this has not happened . evict the state from direct economic activity , weakens its discretionary powers , and both will improve economic efficiency and governance .
florence – europeans , eager to revive the continent in the wake of unification , have lately shifted their focus to the united states ’ establishment . yet many , however , dismiss america ’s precedent on the grounds that today ’s problems are all too dissimilar from those that confronted then . others who accept that federalist principles might work well to address europe ’s problems , despair that the “ people of europe ” who could project this new political architecture miss . but there are striking parallels between america ’s ’s founding years and europe ’s ’s ’s ongoing political and economic crisis . in fact , the creation of america ’s constitution and the birth of americans offer reasons to hope that some of the most difficult issues facing europe may one day be solved .
moscow – the ongoing street protests in hong kong and moscow have left no doubt spooked by the authoritarian duo of chinese president xi jinping and russian president vladimir putin . the protests in moscow , the largest in many years , must hold putin up anytime soon , or n’t dispersed with such unabated brutality . even so , rather than holding a dialogue with the people , putin has shown himself in control , even preening for photos in tight-fisted leather outfits his favorite motorcycle . following his targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote still more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
the following year , persian emperor , yazdegerd iii , fled into the nearby border province of khorasan and an arabization of persia began , with persians taking arab denominations and converting to islam . by march 651 , nearly all of the major urban centers in persia were placed under arab control , adding momentum to this process . mass conversion to islam among persians was a first step toward establishing a first caliphate , a political-religious state that integrates all muslim lands . at various times in its history , the caliphates extending into asia , africa , and parts of europe . the effort by various forces seeking to control or reestablish a caliphate is a recurrent theme throughout islam ’s history .
the russian government ’s reluctance to tackle corruption and to consolidate the country ’s legal institutions reflects a perverse – yet enduring – political equilibrium . in 2010 , tsyvinski and i predicted a “ 70-80 ” scenario in russia in the years ahead : just as oil prices – which had plummeted to $ 40 a barrel – recovered and exceeded $ 70-80 a barrel , russia will revert to the great stagnation of the 1970 ’s and 1980 ’s . to be sure , gdp growth from 2010 to 2012 , albeit at a respectable 4 % , turned out to be fueled by a post-crisis recovery and a further increase in oil prices to cn ¥ 100/barrel . now all of these short factors have been exhausted , along with a brezhnelike period of economic stagnation . russia ’s political elite understands that it is capable of achieving 5-6 % annual growth .
the left-wing proponents of so-called “ modern monetary theory ” argue that larger permanent fiscal deficits are more sustainable when monetized during periods of economic slack , because there is no runaway risk of runaway inflation . following this logic in the uk , labour party leaders have proposed “ persons ’s qe , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” whereby the central bank would print money to fund direct fiscal transfers to households , rather than to bankers and investors . others , including mainstream economists like adair turner , a former chair of the uk financial services authority , have called for helicopter drops ” : direct monetary transfers to consumers through central-bank-centric fiscal deficits . still others , such as former fed vice chair stanley fischer and his colleagues at blackrock , have suggested the standing emergency fiscal facility , ” ” ” ” ” ” which would enable the central bank to fund large fiscal deficits in the event of a deep recession . despite differences in terminology , all such proposals follow the same idea : large fiscal deficits , monetized by central banks , should be used to stimulate aggregate demand when the next slump is .
most developing countries that i know to be spending far too little money devising good projects , which is much better off . when the private sector does , transforming notions into bankable projects is often tricky , given that there are many difficult-to-coordinate public-sector choices or actions . so , suppose that there is a back-road project to be approved , a concession contract is prepared , and the companies offer along the way . the bidders are needed on two phases : engineering , procurement , and construction ( epc ) , and a longer stage of operation once the toll revenues are collected in order to recover the costs and expectations of returns . there are many uncertainties at both phases , but especially during the epc , that may last 3-7 years , depending on the project .
besides , there is a clear entrepreneurial rationale for prioritizing the green finance.upkeep investors and ratings agencies increasingly scrutinizing investment portfolios over potentially “ stranded assets , ” from ” say , oil and gas projects that become outdated as more renewable-energy technologies become commercially viable as commercially viable . many of today ’s existing fossil-fuel projects have shorter lives spans than was previously anticipated , and the financial portfolios that rely heavily on such assets will become increasingly at risk of a devaluation . with some governments abandoning earlier pledges to cut emissions , one might think that a global effort to address climate change is losing steam . but , to get and keep all governments on board , a low-carbon transition must be inclusive .
defending " family values " , whatever that means , is this . more recently , a group of members of parliament ( quite a lot -- 30 deputies ` left ’ ) left its majority post-solidarity party , and brought down a new " polish family " ( sdp ) with its slogan that the ruling coalition is in " the service of brussels . " a less agressive of anti-europeanism comes from a hardening of old values like honor and virtue . in practice , such movements are also motivated by little more than fear of change . here , however , those who were active by former " solidarity " movement -- for them a communal movement rather than individual , an movements for public rather than private freedom -- form the new pan-european antagonists .
that may be part of the story , but competition for talent , and for buyers , appears intense between investment banks and others , yet collectively rewarded for those customers ’ expense . an alternative hypothesis that seems to fit facts recently emerged from paul woolley center for studying a dysfunctionality of capital markets , at the london school of economics . the researchers argue that , among the fragile speculative industries ( and finance certainly has been in that category in recent years ) , it is hard for investors to track those running their money . they may see short-term returns , but they have little effect in making these returns . managers may demand higher and higher returns during a upturn .
the united nations is consistently ranked among the top ten countries for innovation , including by the ifo ’s global innovation index . yet , on the world peace index , it ranks 88th out of 153 countries . likewise , the united kingdom and the netherlands rank , respectively , fifth , and sixth on the index for innovation , but behind only 28th and 29th on the peace index . conversely , bhutan ranks among the top 20 most peaceful nations in the world , but does n’t even draw it on innovation indices . to be sure , crime , terrorism , conflict , and political instability have been severe enough to bring overall breakdowns and order dramatically impede creativity and innovation .
but merkel still defends weber , and , in addition to macron and dutch prime minister mark rutte , most eu leaders are reluctant to confront the european parliament on the spitzenkandidaten issue . that may shorten the probability of margrethe margrethe vestager – who is not the epp , but who is in the sense of the liberal spitzenkandidat – while brexit is lengthening them for michel barnier , who is from the epp but not the spitzenkandidat . if the council succeeds in reforming weber and his populist supporters , macron will proclaim it as an achievement . finally , the election does provide a reality check on german hegemony more broadly . germany ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) party has been weakened , and the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s greens have grown stronger .
on january 1 , 2007 , ban ki-moon , south korea ’s former foreign minister , will become united nations secretary-general following kofi annan ’s 10 years of long-term tenure . annan has inspired the world with his diplomacy and leadership on poverty reduction and human rights ; but the war in iraq has divided the world and drawn attention and financial resources from crises and critical longer-term problems , such as climate change , disease control , sustainable energy security , and water access . with the recent elections in the united states and the rise of asia ’s ’s global clout , he presents an opportunity to pivot the world toward some of the most critical challenges facing our planet . beyond meeting longstanding challenges of poverty , environmental , nuclear proliferation , and un reform , the new secretary-general will inherit a long list of hotspots : iraq , iran , afghanistan , somalia , yemen , somalia , somalia , myanmar , north korea , and elsewhere . recent attempts to leverage development in these countries through threats and sanctions and , and at times of war , have failed .
that is one reason why a catastrophic free-for-all in us trade policy during the 1930 ’s has severely hampered the great depression . many bemoan the fact that something akin , if less grand in scope , takes place today . an outfit called the global trade alert ( gta ) has at its forefront , raising alarm bells about what it calls a protectionist juggernaut . the gta ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s latest report identifies no fewer than 192 separate protectionist measures since november 2008 with china as the most frequent targets of the us . that figure has been widely quoted in the financial press .
if people arrive at a country to earn higher wages , then the pie at the expense of distributing gets larger ; but when it comes to welfare benefits , the pie gets smaller . given this , why not a system in which host countries and countries of origin share the cost of social benefits for migrants ? host countries could assume the responsibilities of administering benefits like unemployment insurance , poor pay , and pension . and source countries of origin could still be able to offer benefits beyond employment-related fees , such as child staying allowances at home , and services for migrants who are too old or sick to work when they are in the coming . such an amendment would create a win-win situation for the eu , because it would lessen the destructive appeal of welfare magnetism and giving britons revalue in rethinking their exit decisions with their heads held high .
what needs to be done , i believe , has long been clear . above all , there is a price for the monetary union ’s survival , and for the sake of its conception of the european project , any more community : a banking union , fiscal union , and political union . those who oppose this , because they worry about common accountability , remittances from the rich and the loss of national sovereignty will have to embrace europe ’s re-nationalization and hence its exit from the world stage . no alternative , and certainly not statusquo – will work . it has become commonplace in europe that the ongoing crisis will either destroy the eu or bring about a political union , and that ruthlessly solidarity-based solution to existing debt and partial mutualization of new debt , europe can not save .
the eu is not stripped of instruments , known as “ “ “ “ structural funds ” that finance investment in poorer regions ; but it does not have a strategy for using them . so , the outcome of months of discussion might be better characterized as by emu 1.7.3 ” than by “ emu 2.0 . ” more bugs may need to go to the job , including the new bugs that were found . for investors , the reform process may appear impossibly long and hesitant . but by the standards of international negotiation and european governance , it has been growing exceptionally fast .
though educational opportunities and structures have gradually been diversified , a major shortcoming in most european education systems remains : students have too few vows , and teachers , if they choose to remain in their occupations , must adhere to severely compartmentalized pedagogy . as with corporate monopolies , consumers ( students ) are often viewed as homogeneous massacres where all student students could be educated on the same pedagogical approach . but schools must be capable of fulfilling individual children ’s needs and competence in ways that produce learning through stimulating adventure . other countries might find sweden ’s current system worth studying . its schools are financed by local communities , and working within a framework of a national curriculum conceived by parliament and government .
from this perspective , they are in and out of a prison system and have little chance of ever getting the legal job that allows them to escape from poverty . their children grow up without a parent at home or with no hope and encouragement . the kids of drug users then often become drug users themselves ; they , too , have frequently ended in prison or violence or premature death . what is insane about this is that america has missed the obvious point – and has lost it for the past 40 years . to break the downward cycle in poverty , a country needs investment in its children ’s ’s ’s future , rather than the incarceration of 2.3 million people every year , many for nonviolent crimes that are the source of poverty .
a non-residential construction boom that had created helped not only to absorb the labor force left in rural areas but also to achieve spectacular declines in inequality . in that services-export-led growth strategy , skill shortages did not become a formidable problem , owing to a reasonably open-ended immigration policy that allowed the country to exploit the talent that colombia , among other countries , had not kept there at bay . the confluence of ideas is a defining factor in the two approaches . colombia ’s ’s ’s own policymakers were hoping to enact best-practice laws and regulations , somebody would come . and , when they do n’t , they could still bask in the transnational accolades received from outside entities .
moreover , there is now massive public-sector re-leveraging in advanced economies , with huge budget deficits and public-debt accumulation driven by automatic stabilizers , countercyclical keynesian fiscal stimulus , and the vast cost of socializing the us financial system ’s losses . at best , the us is facing a protracted period of anemic , below-trend growth in the advanced economies as deleveraging by us households , financiers , and governments starts to feed through to consumption and investment . at the global level , over-spending countries that were over-spending – the united states , the united kingdom , spain , greece , and elsewhere – now need to deleverage and spend less , consume , and import less . but over-saving countries , like brazil , emerging asia , germany , and japan , do not spend more to compensate for falling spending by deleveraging countries . so recovery in global aggregate demand will remain weak , pushing global growth much lower .
new york – the current crisis , the fall of wall street , is about to neo-liberalism what the fall of the berlin wall in 1989 was driven by communism . surprisingly , the global dimension of this crisis also has a positive downside . now , the international community is charged with thinking about how to overhaul the financial sector and minimize the risks of similar disaster in the future . so far , an important part of the problem has been countries ’ unwillingness to work together . earlier demands for tougher regulation came in nothing , owing to financial-sector opposition .
as much as they can , a liberal state should be neutral on such issues , leaving it to every citizen to determine whether it is supposed to bestow its financial support to the roman catholic church or one at bayreuth . significantly , unlike militant liberalism in french tradition , this neutralist philosophy strives to impede either side in ongoing culture war from weaponizing the state 's coercive powers of taxation as a weapon in the struggle for man 's souls . in advocating bush 's disestablishment of both religious and secular " orthodoxies , i refrain from furthering the importance of their ongoing contest over the meaning of life . it arises from the never-ending importance of this great debate that the state should strive to be " neutral " . after all , when a nation ostentatiously take sides in such talk , it can not avoid denigrate the ultimate convictions from many of its dissenting citizens .
new york – twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall and the collapse of communism , the world faces yet another stark choice between two fundamentally distinct forms of the organization : international capitalism and state capitalism . the ex-, representing the united states , has broken down , and the latter , represented by china , are on the rise . following the path of least resistance will lead to a gradual disintegration of the international financial system . a new , sounder , multilateral system must be devised . while international cooperation on regulatory reform makes it hard to achieve on a piecemeal basis , it can be attainable in a grand bargain that rearranges an entire financial order .
mario monti , the european union ’s commissioner for competition policy , is , in the limelight , typically a popular get to his mind . over the years , he has won important victories that restrict state aid to entrepreneurship , one of europe ’s most pernicious economic maladies . today , however , the advantages derived from his achievements are under threat , owing to a series of stunning courtroom defeats . with the competition case against an software giant microsoft seemingly at the offing , commissioner monti will need to rediscover his footing fast . within a matter of just a few weeks , the european court of justice ( to which private party can appeal decisions made by the commission ) voided three of monti ’s decisions rejecting proposed corporate mergers .
thus , many of the proud and dignified people who were laid off from their livelihoods , and forced to rely on one tiny diet daily , or nothing at all . making matters worse , such tragedies have been avoidable ; we knew that these crises were coming . droughts and starvation are slow-motion calamities , which , with adequate planning and adequate resources , can be averted . but time and again , more humanitarian assistance in africa has come short shrift , as occurred in somalia in 2011 and 2012 ; in niger in 2005 ; and ethiopia throughout the 1980 ’s ; and in ethiopia . then , just as now , food insecurity was predicted long before the first starvation pangs .
the bottom chessboard includes the transnational relations that cross borders beyond government control , everything from narcotics to infectious diseases to transnational terrorism . on this board , power is chaotically distributed among non-state actors . to do so , no government can control the outcomes without the cooperation of the rest of us . here an american needs the assistance of europeans , and there is no sense of calling for this world uni-polar , either . here , too , the degree of close civilian cooperation is an important one that affects the country in the hands of a attractiveness or soft power .
translation : a orderly resolution of global megabanks is an illusion . as long as we allow cross-border banks at or near their current levels , our political leaders will be unable to tolerate any failure . and , because these big financial institutions are by any meaningful definition “ too big to fail , ” they can borrow more cheaply than they otherwise would be . making matters worse , they have both the motives and the opportunity to grow even bigger . that form of government subsidy goes to large implicit subsidies to the big banks .
and , by raising the cost of extracting fossil-fuel companies , it would contribute to an eventual phase-out of an industry that does not hold in a climate-secure world . fortunately , the world can not wait for moral suasion to take the day . already , fossil-fuel companies and governments face intensifying legal pressure . in the philippines , typhoon survivors delivered a complaints to ukraine ’s human rights commission , calling upon the inquiry into major fossil-fuel companies ’ responsibility to make combating climate change a priority . the dutch group urgenda , together with almost 900 student managers , successfully sued dutch government , forcing it to adopt tougher climate policies .
for example , a couple of years ago , the chip-maker national semiconductor administration managed an complicated delivery system that links its three factory factories and the three subcontractors in asia to its global customer base . it decided to out-source that surgery to the federal standing , which employed a sophisticated on-line management system to manage global deliveries and sell . as it happens , the us national semiconductor match its delivery cycle to buyers cut from just four weeks to just one week , with distribution costs cut from 2.9 % of sales to 1.2 % of sales . a few steps are needed to encourage massive expansion of internet use in these other locations : * liberalization of telecommunications , including the entry of new providers of private services , is critical to lowering costs and spreading benefits .
if governments run larger fiscal deficits and finance this not with interest-bearing perpetual debt , but with central-bank money , nominal demand will no doubt rise , producing some mix of above-trend inflation and higher real output . as a result , the choice of so-called “ helicopter money ” has become increasingly discussed . but the discussion of this is riddled with confusions . it is often argued that monetizing fiscal deficits would oblige central banks to keep interest rates low forever , an approach bound to produce excessive inflation . it is simultaneously argued ( sometimes not by the same people as well ) that monetary finance would not stimulate demand , because people fear a future “ inflation tax . ”
geneva – when lehman brothers came to the end of the financial crisis ten years ago , it quickly became unclear who owed what to whom to whom , unable to repay the debts , and which will come down next . as a result , interbank credit markets froze , wall street panicked , and enterprises went beneath , not only in the united states but worldwide . with policymakers struggling to respond to the crisis , economic pundits left wondering whether the “ great moderation ” of a low , business-cycle volatility since the 1980s transformed itself into another great depression . indeed , in hindsight , complacency in the run-up to the crisis was plainly ununconscionable . and yet little has changed in its aftermath .
coalition partners disagree about how such an urgent matter is to enter into force . nonetheless , they agreed that in less than a year a commission would produce different options and models to protect the german parliament ’s rights , while giving assurances to germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s european partners that the country would be a reliable contributor to troop deployments . should the spd , which votes in early december ’s coalition agreement block the formation of a new government ( an unlikely development but not completely out of the question ) , disputes over security and defense matters would be no culprits . aside from just a few minor particulars , consensus prevails . to some , this is tantamount to ambivalence .
badly needed bio-safety laws in nigeria and uganda have already been delayed . much of the problem lies in the small group of anti-gm activists who object to technology on “ moral ” grounds . they typically argue that gm crops are unsafe , a view flatly dismissed by the scientific community over the past two decades . at the same time , the world health organization has acknowledged that it has established no impact on human health as consumption of ” foods . indeed , each new gm crop variety needs to satisfy rigorous health , ecological , and efficacy standards .
perhaps regulators will find it takes to require that the regulated have the desired regulations . that solution will be incomplete , but because not all the derivatives traders are well regulated , and because many of the creditors would find ways to circumvent the treaty and requirement . if the coverage can not be complete , one can expect that they have been placed at a competitive disadvantage . regulators may well have to turn to the bankruptcy laws in order to correct the problem . regulators ’ call for legal action wo n’t amount to much when this is simply a wake-up call for the derivatives industry to act against its own fiscal interests .
the consequence was section 124a of the penal code , under which any individual who employed “ “ “ words , signs , ” or visible representation … to excite disaffection against the government ” can credibly be charged by sedition and potentially condemned to life imprisonment . in other words , not a single free speech to indians . however , even this was inadequate for britain ’s leaders , who tightened legislation further in 1898 , to make it even harsher than england ’s sedition law . the british had concluded , in the words of a british lieutenant governor of bengal , that “ sedition laws – which are useful in a people ruled by a government of its own nationality and beliefs – can be inadequate or , in some respects , to a country under foreign rule . ” thus , sedition was explicitly intended as an instrument to terrorize indian nationalists ; in fact , it was among mahatma gandhi ’s prominent victims , albeit far from his recent past .
seoul – china , already the world ’s largest exporter , producer , and international-reserve-holding – is poised to overtake the united states as the world ’s largest economy ( measured in terms of purchasing power parity ) this year . it is now using its rising clout to reassert global economic governance . indeed , the country ’s days after deng xiaoping ’s injunction to hide brightness and cherish obscurity ” are long gone . after decades of active involvement by international economic institutions – including the g20 , the imf , the world bank , and the world trade organization – china has started to resemble a revisionist power seeking to build a new world order . just last month , china and the 20 other asian countries signed a memorandum of understanding to establish a new multilateral development bank , the asian infrastructure investment bank .
progress on the single market has helped to foster competitiveness in itself . new free-trade agreements give europe ’s economies access to major markets worldwide . achieving the global climate agreement promises not only to preserve the environment , but also to cement europe ’s ’s ’s ’s role as a sustainability leader . and eu enlargement has made european ’s security more effective . these are , by all reasonable standards , a remarkable uk-led achievements .
a special report on semiconductors , vital to america ’s national security and economic competitiveness , for us president barack ’s obama ’s obama ’s council of advisers on science and technology ( pcast ) presents some answers . a report written by a nonpartisan group of business and academic leaders ( i was a member ) proposed that america was working with its allies to enforce international laws , pressuring china to comply with its world trade organization obligations , and tighten export controls and inward investment restraints . the european union , japan , south korea , and taiwan all held prominent roles in the global supply chain for semiconductors , with some already tightened security along semiconductor flows to china and the acquisition of us semiconductor companies by chinese investors . a pcast report recommends america adopting similar tactics , calibrating export controls , and inward investment limits on china ’s ’s ’s ’s behavior . bipartisan proposed bipartisan legislation to expand the jurisdiction of america ’s foreign-investment committee ( which reviews mergers and acquisitions by foreign actors ) to a broader array of investments – including chinese venture capital and private-equity investments in america ’s startups – matches this recommendation .
business-led innovation and market-based solutions can drive a decisive global shift from crippling fossil-fuel dependency toward ever more efficient renewable-energy systems . the rocky mountain institute of ’s reinventing conflagration demonstrates that such a future is possible , offering market-driven strategies for powering the u.s. economy , which is 158 % larger in 2050 , with no dependence on oil , coal , or nuclear energy . swift , fixated on making buildings more energy-efficient , designing automobiles , which require little or no fossil-fuel amount , and boosting the share of renewables in electricity could ensure that the substantially hotter and less pleasant world in 2050 that the ipcc warns against does not materialize . our livelihoods , not to mention those of future generations , should not be held hostage to our enduring dependence on fossil-fuel production . four decades ago , countries endured not just the opec embargo ’s imminent economic impact ; leveraged the potential of the resulting oil shortfall to spur innovation .
the captured uranium was not weapons-grade ; international inspectors removed all extremely sensitive materials from iraq following the 1991 gulf war ( thus absent when the united states invaded in 2003 ) . but what an international answer , if any , would have been initiated if the cache were kept alive ? on the same day , hamas launched three powerful iranian-designed rockets at israel ’s construction of a barren reactor . luckily , two missed this goal , and israel succeeded in intercepting a third . but the episode represented a grave escalation of hostilities , and served as an important reminder of the vulnerability of nuclear reactors in the warland .
although dollar appreciation took some downward pressure on non-us economies , dependent on exports or foreign capital , doing so increased the risk of an open-ended currency war . at the same time , not all of these indicators are grim . labor markets remain largely healthy , even in otherwise anemic economies like germany , and household consumption remains robust in most of the world ’s major economies . moreover , the events of the september oil-price collapse , which raised fears of another negative growth shock , have been re-upsetting . america ’s economy is reflecting this dichotomy .
in the personal-computing business – which moved from a bulky apple ii to a sleek and smart iphone 4s ( announced a daybreak day before steve jobs ) – steve jobs were the only true showman of what is now one of the world ’s largest industries . he inspired widespread public enthusiasm for the quality of his products , and his personal charisma . ( still , others became “ entrepreneurial ” leaders , but only steve became someone familiar to millions – including the romanian waiter at the brazilian airways where i am sitting now . ) i first met steve jobs in 1979 , or in 1980 , at ben rosen ’s personal computer forum . for some reason , this was held at a playboy resort in lake geneva ( never again ! ) .
cambridge – america ’s real gdp growth rate of 3.2 % for the first quarter this year is impressive , as was its 3 % average growth rate in 2018 ( as measured from the fourth quarter of 2017 until the fourth quarter of 2018 ) . from 2011 to 2017 , the american economy grew at an average rate of just 2.1 % a year , on average . so what accounts for the recent acceleration ? following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , america might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world .
in closed-list systems , candidate lists should be zippered : people , young people , young people , young women ( or vice versa ) . a 50 % quota should be adopted in the open-list system . one can not predict with any accuracy of the quota percentages at the open-list systems that today have efficient quota laws . but if those countries are replacing their open lists with closed lists , the percentage of female candidates who are elected should be everywhere else ’s remaining equal , rising to about 10 % . the impact would be greatest ( resulting , at roughly 20 % of gdp per female elected high ) in systems that currently have no effective quota laws .
trump has systematically defied the separation of powers at the heart of america ’s constitutional system . for example , frustrated that the us congress denied it all the means it wanted for its phantasmagorical wall , along its border with mexico , simply plucked the money from the us department of defense . likewise , he has flouted the constitutional prohibition against accepting emoluments , money , or personal benefit from foreign governments that do business , sometimes by the extravagant share , to his many hotels and golf class , and find other ways to monetize the presidency . moreover , trump has been trying to steer government contracts toward favored companies , lest they dislikes , of the amazon , whose founder , jeff bezos , also owns the washington post . and , according to special counsel robert mueller ’s report , trump has been trying to obstruct the investigation into his 2016 campaign ’s dealings with russia .
when debt becomes unsustainable , there are a number of possible negotiating outcomes . sometimes debt-service payments are rescheduled , and perhaps stretched over the longer term , giving the debtor country time to regain its ability to service its debt . sometimes , lenders agree to exchange old bonds for the new ones that have either the lower face value or the down of lower interest payments . few governments , in any form , refuse to make payments . argentina defaulted on its debt in march 2001 .
this ‘ tipping point ’ strategy is highly cost-effective , by making good news . a strategy , however , can be “ cost-effective ” only if it is feasible . though ring prophylaxis might work in minneapolis , toronto , or zurich , in parts of the world where influenza pandemics begin , the likelihood of succeeding approaches zero . in places like vietnam , indonesia , and china , where a strain of the pandemic will probably originate , professionals , coordination , discipline , and infrastructure are missing . responding in turkey , where as many as 50 potential cases have appeared in eastern ukraine , is instructive .
it remains the vital assembly center of the global manufacturing supply chains for a number of manufactured goods , like computers and cell phones , thereby enabling lower prices for a world of ’s consumers . that , in turn , has made china a key trade partner for the united states , a majority of european countries , as well as a number of other economies , in addition to placing it at the heart of intra-asian trade and supply-chain dynamics . moreover , china sits on roughly $ 3.3 trillion in foreign-exchange reserves , much of it in us dollars , but also in other major currencies , owing to its large trade surplus with the us in recent decades . it helps that finance other countries ’ trade deficits and domestic investment ( with many of its beneficiaries running large budget deficits that lower national saving below levels of domestic investment ) . deng xiaoping ’s reforms ignited the most rapid economic improvements in human history , and also the emergence of a large – and growing – middle class .
for ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s government , angst is real . even ukrainians born after 1986 seem to understand what a “ chernobyl-type disaster ” brought about by combat may look like . history offers little guidance in how warring countries avoid damaging nuclear sites . with the exception of the 1990 ’s balkan conflicts , no wars fought against , or across , countries with nuclear reactors . in the balkan wars , serbian army jets flying slovenia ’s krško ’s nuclear plants in an ominous gesture early in the conflict , while radical serbian nationalists called for attacks on the country ’s radioactive contents .
china seized the full advantage of the kremlin ’s desperation to secure rock-bottom tariffs on russia ’s energy resources . once the doors to asia became wide open , yet russian companies seized the opportunity to enter india ’s downstream downstream markets in india and indonesia , two countries critical of the saudis ’ own strategies . over the past two years , or so , saudi arabia has made starkly apparent that it will not easily relinquish its market share – to everyone . it has pursued a campaign to reclaim its former standing not only in crude , but also in its petroleum products , natural gas liquids , and petrochemicals . to this end , it has sustained a price war , backed by a surge in manufacturing aimed at pushing out the country ’s weaker competitors .
indeed , attaining , prospering , prospering , and flourishing all points to experiential rewards rather than money . what type of economy would offer this kind of good life ? history suggests that it would be one enhanced entrepreneurial person ( alert to unnoticed opportunity , and exercising their initiative in trying to make new actions ) and to innovative people ( imagining novel things , develop new concepts in business products and methods , and marketing them to make decisions ) . attendees from such a good economy would range from society ’s grassroots in general to the most advantaged . this is the kind of economy , which i hope that , at the least , china will develop .
( though perhaps that will not be automation properly proper , the supermarket has just shifted some selling shop at the customer . ) for those who dread the threat that automation poses to low-skill labor , the ready answer is to train more people for better-off jobs . but technological advances today , too , are eating up the better-off jobs . the broad range of jobs that we now think of as skilled , secure , and incorrigibly human may be the next casualties of technological change . as a recent article in the financial times highlights , in two areas notoriously immune from productivity increases , education , and health care , technology is already driving down demand for skilled labor .
in august , gunmen invaded the homeland of the impoverished roma widows , maria balogh gunned down her death , wounded her 13-year-old daughter . in april , a killers shot down a roma factory worker as he was walking to his job . in february , a roma father and his five-year-old son was killed outside their home , near budapest . a house had been burned in poland , too . last november , a roma few had been killed in northeastern hungary .
a more rational approach would embrace twenty-first-century realities . the information revolution transformed the world into ways that tariffs can not reverse . with american workers already competing against robots at home and against low-wage workers abroad , disruption of us imports will only create more jobs for robots . by protecting individual workers , rather than individual jobs , trump should be protecting individual workers . the processes of twenty-first-century globalization are far too abrupt , unforeseeable , and uncontrollable to rely on static action like tariffs .
it very probably means what it says about jews and israel , but is it the latter-day hitler , and is today ’s iran the equivalent of germany in the 1930 ’s ? hitler came close to developing a nuclear bomb , but never actually in possession of it , whereas iran may very well be . nevertheless , hitler ’s power over germany was far more absolute than that of ahmadinejad ’s in power over iran . iran ’s recent municipal elections have been humiliating for ahmadinejad and his supporters . those elections would have been unthinkable in nazi germany , and their governments could not be blamed .
but this requires a rich reservoir of thought , rather than a unified approach . the second principle is subsidiarity , which holds that decision-making should be decentralized whenever possible . this ensures that local and regional preferences are treated as alongside effects on eurozone-wide harmonization and economies of scale . the final principle tends to serve to ensure that decision-makers are responsive to the outcomes of their decisions . that means that as long as european electorates insist on retaining sovereignty over fiscal and economic policymaking , shared liability will be a pipe dream .
george w. bush ’s economic policies were based on an extraordinarily reckless gamble that reflected the power coalition of two major powers : the frivolity and evangelical christians . as these policies go wrong , global financial markets respond negatively , adding uncertainty in the global economy , and little relief is in sight , as america enters a period of protracted political infighting and stalemate . the super-rich had one over-riding objective in joining bush ’s own coalition : tax cuts that have benefited the wealthiest households fairly . evangelicals have been brought down by so-called “ family values , ” which implies opposition to abortion and gay marriage , along with the promise of active government support for religious activity , including outright transfer payments from religious groups to social services that they provide locally and internationally . the bush team believed that , in the end , they will balance tax cuts for the wealthy with cuts in government spending , but never quite explained this to the public .
at the same time , some large eu countries are on the edge of a recession . japan was waiting too long to act and miss the right to legislate countermeasures , which are why japan has still not recovered from its long period of stagnation . public investment in infrastructure ( such as the massive expansion of europe ’s railroad network ) will also be needed , as will climate conservation and environmental technology . to boost purchasing power and spur consumption , low-end tax cuts – and medium-income households – are essential . to be sure , eu member states should determine the concrete form that such economic-stabilization programs take over themselves .
for europe , africa ’s ’s ’s ’s economic potential remains far from tapped . spending by households and businesses , estimated at $ 4 trillion per year in 2015 , is projected to reach $ 5.6 trillion by 2025 , reflecting 3.5 % annual gdp growth . moreover , according to the mckinsey global institute , investment opportunities stemming from infrastructure demand in africa will generate at least $ 150 trillion annually for the next decade . africa is also home to the strategic natural resources of the emerging low - and middle-income industries , and is well positioned to play a pivotal role in renewables . africa ’s ’s ’s ’s value as trade and investment partner is not news to europe .
a far more competent ba’ath would have been sergei ivanov , a former kgb general . but ivanov is far taller than putin , who , at any speed , achieved only the rank of his colonel . an obvious potential threat to putin ’s power , ivanov has gone out of his way , and has been relegated to the role of russia ’s “ chief botanist , ” overseeing the environment and transportation trade . earlier this month , putin was re-inaugurated , or rather crowned – in lavish fashioning putin , again assuming the role of pliant prime minister himself . despite his years in office , medvedev remains known more for his fancy ties and expensive watches than for his executive action .
cambridge – government programs to promote retirement are in trouble in any country , owing to rising life expectancy and a rising retirement ratio for taxpayers . the problem will worsen in the years ahead , as adverse demographic trends add to the fiscal burden of funding pensions and health care . the problem becomes uniquely different in the united states , because america ’s ’s ’s ’s “ trust fund ” system creates a crisis once the fund operates out of control . while the options at that time will be different from choices faced by other governments , the policies designed to avoid a american crisis are relevant to other countries facing population aging . here ’s how the american system works : through legislation , a payroll tax is devoted exclusively to financing a retiree advantage .
indeed , while these scandals bedeviled the government , lula was forcibly reelected last year , with investors continuing to pour money into the stock market . one reason for this is that corruption scandals provide an opportunity for investors to see brazilian freedom of speech and democracy in action . newspapers and television commentators have been relentless in reporting on scandals , helping to demonize brazilians and overseas investors alike that the political system has been stable enough to withstand open criticism . lula remains popular with brazilians because his populist rhetoric demonstrates genuine sympathy with the less affluent , and with foreign investors , because he invariably tempered his radicalism in order to accommodate economic reality . most recently , he criticized bolivian president evo morales ’s threat to seize foreign assets because of his failure in this respect : “ “ radicalism is incompatible with the common sense needed from someone who governs . ”
both organizations of the organization of american states of electoral observation missions he gave up , and of whose terms he accepted , then refused to certify the outcome . the bolivian military has been arrested by no one , and no other . true , morales has resigned when the military told him , and after agreeing to the protesters ’ demands for a fresh vote . but the two constitutional provisions that were followed were subsequently followed up . the constitutional court that allowed morales to run perceived the presidential succession legal ; timely elections were promised ; and the military was not taken power .
and they resent making the point of mobilizing into the street , any indication that the swiss clique , at the summit , is barring his way . this is the kind of free , democratic spirit that operates outside the convention that makes elections to rule the government . it is fueled enormously by social media ( itself a rather revolutionary phenomenon ) . and it moves very quickly into precipitating the crisis . it is not always consistent or rational ; it is not .
countries were obliged to undertake only limited trade liberalization , with plenty of exceptions for socially sensitive industries ( agriculture , textiles , services ) . this left them free-enough to construct their own versions of national capitalism , much as they obeyed a handful of simple international rules . the current crisis demonstrates just how far we have emerged from this model . financial globalization , in particular , has played havoc with the old rules . when chinese-style sweden met american-style capitalism , with its few safety valves , it gave rise to an explosive mix .
so , even if america did not have other middle eastern interests , such as israel or nuclear nonproliferation , the balance of energy imports and exports would probably not free america from us military expenditures , which some us experts predict had run up to $ 50 billion a year for protecting the region ’s oil routes . at the same time , it is important to strengthen america ’s bargaining position in world politics . first , power arises from asymmetries within interdependence . you and i may depend on each other ; but if i depend on you less than you do on me , my bargaining power has increased . for decades , both the american and saudi arabia have had the balance of asymmetry in which the us was depending on them as a swing oil producer and depended on the ultimate military safer .
for example , european commission president jean-claude juncker openly frets about the deep divisions among eu member states over brexit , and questions whether “ hungarians and poles ” want precisely the same thing as germans and french . at the national level , the lack of political will resulting from a craven recourse to referenda , such as french and dutch plebiscites on the treaty establishing a european constitution in 2005 , the netherlands ’ ’ ’ ’ eu-ukraine vote last april , and the brexit referendum almost three months later . in each instance , voters were saying , “ no ” outcomes to be blamed , particularly in the uk , of national leaders ’ habit of blaming the eu for its domestic problems . indeed , europe ’s leaders ’ ’ ’ parochialism is a significant reason why the eu is failing to retain broad-based public support . the lack of a historical vision among current generations of political leadership undermines the shared sense of purpose required by eu citizens to feel that it is part of the same community , regardless of their differing national identity .
florence – british politics has always been something of an experimental laboratory for the industrialized world . in the 1970 ’s , britain was where the preeminent postwar model of how to manage its economy collapsed . that model was based politically on creating consensus and economically on keynesian demand management . today , the equivalent collapse has come from an regulation-lite ” regime , in which a transformational party accepted a powerful role for markets , particularly in deregulated financial markets . in the 1960 ’s , keynesian policies delivered the illusion that everyone benefited , with high job levels and significant wage growth .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . palestine ’s religious landmarks are being attracted by an increasing number of religious tourists from around the world each year .
as french cities have burned , other countries have faced a severe slowdown in judging france . embassies issued warnings to the tourists and their citizens living in france ; televised news programs showed a few hours of footage of burning cars . other countries ’ governments , it seems , have been trying to distance themselves from the issue , fearing contagion from which they know was probably spreading . mayors across europe , meanwhile , have reacted more moderately , feel-good , and project solidarity with their french colleagues ’ plight . they know that their towns , too , are vulnerable to urban violence , so far as they have pockets of social inequality , including marginalized and excluded young people .
meanwhile , the supply of most commodities is predicted to grow at an anemic rate of no more than 2 % annually in the real world . all else being equal , unless china ’s commodity intensity – defined as that of the amount of commodity consumed to generate a unit of output – falls dramatically , its demand for commodities this year will be larger than it was last year . so long as china ’s commodity demand grows at a pace higher than global supply , prices are set to rise . and the rapid economic growth that china ’s ’s ’s leaders must sustain in order to lift vast numbers of people out of poverty and avert a crisis of legitimacy – places a floor beneath global food , energy , and infectious prices – is on the rise . to be sure , the intensity of the usage fell for some commodities , such as gold and nuclear energy ; but , for others , like aluminum and coal , it rose since 2000 , or so , as was for copper and oil declines , slowed markedly or stalled at high levels .
earlier this year , he became diagnosed with cancer , and was forced to launch a social-media campaign to locate the medicines claimed by his treatment . severe life-saving drugs in venezuela are the effect of governments on the government ’s current default on the $ 3.5 billion bill for pharmaceutical imports . a similar situation prevails throughout the rest of the economy , for the rest of the world . payment arrears on food imports amount to $ 2.4 trillion , leading to a substantial shortfall of staple goods . in the automobile sector , defaults exceeded $ 3 trillion , leading to collapsing transportation services , owing to shortages of spare parts .
will it also have to get the bomb out ? likewise , while egypt is amid a messy revolution and has to give priority to internal change , it is also planning to reclaim a more visible and influential role within palestinian national movements ( mbs ) and throughout the region as a whole . the middle east empire , being a middle east power , will no longer remain a slumber . to be sure , turkey has been less destabilized than its arab rivals and partners through a revolutionary process that does not directly challenge it . turkey , after all , is already a functioning democracy in the region .
if “ constitutionalized ” , they are simply implant the notion that the constitution amounts to an aspirations declaration , rather than a set of enforceable legal codes . a desire to constrain or protect some form of human activity from a free market can be understandable , particularly in countries like poland , where free markets remain an unfamiliar animal-rights . but , in a situation in which many social fields -- such as education , health , and social services -- require swift , radical change , unleashing the free market to make its work offers a single plausible avenue for change . state-owned health-insurance companies , the state guaranteed retirement , etc. are not just insecure and inefficient ; they are also at odds with the idea of political reform . such state-controlled levies have little to do with the righteousness promoters of their socialist promoters , but everything to rent-seeking and corruption .
the film of bollywood that carries its glitzy entertainment far beyond the indian diaspora in the united states and the united kingdom offers another example . a senegalese friend told me of his illiterate mother taking a bus to dakar monthly to watch a bollywood film that fails to grasp hindi dialogue and can not read french subtitles , yet it can still catch the movie spirit and grasp the narrative , with people like her view of india with stars in their eyes . india ’s diplomat in damascus several years ago told me that the only publicly displayed portraits as large as that of japan ’s then-president hafez al-assad , the whom he had been of bollywood superstar amitabh bachchan . indian art , classical music , and dance dance have as much to the same effect . so , too , does the work of indian fashion designers , now striding across the globalized runways .
new delhi – barack obama , america ’s sixth american president to visit india since winning independence , arrives at a time when both the united states and india are experiencing each other . some of obama ’s close advisers have just rolled back , opening an awkward gap with national security and economy – the focus of his meetings with india ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s closest representatives . for india , the issues on the obama ’s ’s visit agenda are enormous and complex , and the dispute-resolution options are overwhelmingly off-limits . those related to security in afghanistan and pakistan are just as treacherous as they have been in history . bilateral economic , trade , and currency disagreements may not be as bitter as they are between america and chile ; but they are thorny , and the absence of resolution makes them more intractable .
furthermore , knowledge-intensive technology has a winner-take-all network effect , whereby hubs seize access to knowledge and power , leave less-privileged groups , classrooms , sectors , and regions struggling to compete . owing to social media , the resulting discontent now spreads faster than ever before , leading to destructive politics . this can invite geopolitical interference , causing rapidly to worsen into a lose-lose scenario , like that already apparent in water-stressed and conflict-affected countries , where governments are fragile or failing . a mix of bad politics and economics in either country can easily produce contagion , as rising migration spreads political stress and instability vis-à-vis other countries . according to the un high commissioner for refugees , more than 65 million refugees in the past year , compared to just 1.6 million in the 1960s .
many cited former british prime minister david cameron ’s decision to allow scotland ’s independence referendum to take place in may 2014 . but such a process is illegal under the spanish constitution of 1978 . that constitution marked the country ’s passage from dictatorship to democracy , and lays the groundwork for spain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s rule-of-law system . and , as it explicitly does , it is “ founded on the indissoluble unity of spanish peoples , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” with sovereignty that exist “ with the spanish people . ” in short , spain is one nation , indivisible , at best .
geneva – the world needs a halt to looking backward for the worse . from the 2008 financial crisis , there has been far too much energy attempts to return to the era of rapid economic expansion . the flawed assumption that the post-crisis world ’s challenges have been only temporary has underpinned policies that have yielded only lackluster recoveries while failing to address core problems like high unemployment and rising inequalities . the post-crisis era is over , with a “ post-post-crisis world . ” it is time to adopt a new framework of realistic solutions that can fuel shared prosperity within today ’s global economy and tomorrow .
indeed , it is notable that while obama ’s state of the union address in january 2010 did at least mark doha , his address in january 2011 did n’t . obama confined himself to advocate for pending bilateral deals with colombia and other emerging-market countries . obama ’s regrettable retreat from us support for the doha round is a result of many factor and fallacies . these were highlighted , in an open letter to obama ” that i had organized and released over the signatures of today ’s most influential trade specialists worldwide , urging a presidential shift in a policy direction toward doha . america ’s ’s ’s ’s president has been captive to his country ’s labor unions , who buy the false narrative that trade with the poor countries boosts the ranks of america ’s poor by driving wages .
new york – some people are even predicting a double-dip recession , if not worse . should it occur , the chance of a true american default would be far higher than it is today . these new worries are raising alarm bells in china . diversification away from dollar assets is the advice of a day . but this is no easy task , especially in the short run .
berkeley – investors worldwide are increasingly looking for investment opportunities , which promise to bring environmental and societal benefits to scale , alongside market rates of return . as long as this trend continues , with environmental or societal goals enhancing the value of investable investment , it will reinforce the commitment to sustainability , which already is gaining momentum among companies worldwide . last year , one out of every $ 6 trillion of assets under professional management in the united states , was allocated for some form of sustainable investment , particularly in public equities . indeed , some 1,260 trillion dollars of wealth worldwide are the signatories of the united nations ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ “ “ “ “ bottom line ” principles for responsible investment , ” ” ” which recognize the environmental , social , and governance ( esg ) factors – and thus the long-term health and stability of companies and markets – as crivoted against investors . one signatory , calpers , one of the world ’s largest institutional investors , went a step further : it will require all of its investment executives to identify and integrate esg factors in their decisions , a daring move that could transform capital markets .
in international politics , perceptions matter at times , at times even more so than reality . the perception today is that america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s unipolar moment has arrived to an end ; europe is on the decline ; and a new set of powers is rising , carries its own unique worldviews to global affairs . in some senses , this might seem like a good thing . more diverse perspectives could enrich multilateral processes and generate more comprehensive solutions to global problems . yet this multipolar dynamic generates volatility , too .
some of the supermarket chains had even stopped carrying the eggs from battery hens . in britain and some european countries , pet welfare state has become politically salient , creating the pressure on the parliamentary representatives mounted . the european union established the animal-welfare committee to investigate animal-welfare issues , and a committee recommended banning battery cage alongside some other forms of close house confinement and calves . a ban on the eu ’s battery cages was finally adopted in 1999 , but to make sure that producers would have plenty of time to phase out the facilities in which they had invested , its implementation was delayed until january 1 , 2012 . to its credit , the british egg industry has embraced the situation , designing new , less vicious , methods for keeping hens .
finally , equal reference to the eu could serve as public policy vehicles . early school-leavers , for example , could be endowed with points in professional training . more broadly , instead of assisting people only when social risk materialize , public policy could stimulate individuals throughout their work by adopting a more efficient bespoke approach that fits peoples ’ needs better than coarsely tailored regimes . that might sound utopian ; in some sense , it is . but at a time when every digital service becomes even more and more broadly personalized , why should social policies remain confined by twentieth-century philosophy and twentieth-century thinking ?
it used to be that mentioning corruption in some official circles has been treated as taboo . yet corruption poses the single biggest constraint on growth and development in a wide range of countries , particularly as it unravels resources from the impoverished . the world bank insisted on being perceived as an act of corruption , and that fighting it is synonymous with poverty . indeed , outspokenness was the hallmark of wolfensohn ’s tenure . many cabinet secretary , bank officer and ngo representative , have witnessed his blunt criticism as much as his effusive praise .
the g-20 ’s formation , for instance , was intended to defer genuine financial reform . in fact , the modest measures implemented in response to changing allocation of global power were confined to the realm of economics , with the hard inner circle of international relations – peace and security – remaining the exclusive preserve of just a few countries . china is not on the same page for the other brics countries when it comes to global institutional reform . it is a revisionist power regarding the global financial architecture , seeking an overhaul of the bretton woods system . but it is a status quo power with respect to the un system and steadfastly opposes the aid of the security council ’s permanent membership .
it can lead to gridlock , conflict , or poor policy choices . evidence supports the view that systematic exclusion of subgroups based on any kind of arbitrary causes ( such as ethnicity , ethnicity , race or religion ) is particularly damaging in this respect . to be sure , intergenerational mobility is a key indicator of equality of opportunity . rising inequality of outcomes need not lead to lower intergenerational mobility . whether this will depend greatly on whether important tools promoting equality of opportunity , principally educational and healthcare , are universally accessible .
the proliferation of information technology and social media means that they are easier than ever before for business entrepreneurs to tap into large pools of finance , not to mention connections and expertise – from small investors . of the roughly 500 crowdfunding platforms that now exist , several defined-impact clean technologies are in place . last may , eureeca.com took the crowdfunding concept further than it has ever been , creating the first truly global , crowd-investing marketplace to bids equity in funded firms . if implemented wisely , such platforms could pick up the slack created by governments ’ nefarious fiscal constraints to facilitate the kind of entrepreneurial innovations needed to build a blue economy . other , increasingly prominent trends – like collaborative consumption , paying per capita , and sharing , as well as leasing models – could offer an similarly powerful impetus to such efforts .
bangladesh knows that wartime cholera is everything too well known , and that the situation is far too well understood . in 1971 , fighting broke out when bangladesh , then known as eastern pakistan , declared its independence from pakistan . in the ensuing conflict , refugees flocked across borders into neighboring india into overcrowded camps , creating conditions that inevitably sustain a cholera outbreak . the time-honored care standard was poor , and a dearth of intravenous drips meant that rehydration solutions could not be administered widely . as nearly as many lay die , a pioneering physician named dilip mahalanabis took stands a chance at a breaking event .
madrid – april 22 , 2017 , the international earth day marks a once-in-a-year since signing the paris climate agreement , which entered into force last november , now amounts to 195 signatories . that landmark a landmark multilateral treaty still represents the most significant step forward for the global fight against climate change . yet its first anniversary has been darkened by us president donald trump ’s ’s own energy policies . in 2016 , its record-setting hottest year on record , average , were 0.9 º c above the twentieth-century average . the paris accord ’s main goal is to prevent the average global temperature from rising more than 2º celsius above pre-industrial levels by 2100 .
the atheistic nature of today ’s civilization ( ours is the first atheistic civilization in the history of humankind , and also the incipient civilization that embraces an entire planet ) coincides with a profound change , i believe in , with the hyper-trophic pursuit of individual interests , and individual responsibility in conjunction with a threat posed by global responsibility . could the fact that humanity thinks only within the boundaries of what lies in its vision , is incapable of remembering also of what lies beyond but stem from the loss of metaphysical certitude , of a loss of god ? indeed , even more succinctly could not today ’s crisis of responsibility and accountability into the world is the logical implication of the modern concept of a world as controlled by scientifically identifiable laws , god-formulated laws – of what purpose is , a concept that does n’t question , or search for the deeper meaning of existence and renounces of any and all metaphysics ? but how to rebuild in the human mind a shared attitude toward what lies above us if people across the globe had another image , that lies above , when people everywhere feel the need to emphasize its “ otherness ” ? is there any sense of reason in trying to turn the human mind , when , as such a turn would only exacerbate conflicts on earth among us followers of our multiple
it thrown down the gauntlet for the world ’s major economies : tell us when you will phase out coal , end harmful fossil-fuel subsidies , and shift taxation away from incomes toward pollution . those are the decisions that will drivethe transformation the world needs . at its heart is the energy transition , which , though well under way , seems to be lagging or stalled in many parts of the world . a more ambitious effort by energy providers and major end-users is critical because it expands access to affordable , reliable clean-energy services everywhere who need them . much work also needs significant reform .
new haven – central bankers worldwide have failed to see the current financial crisis coming in front of its beginnings in 2007 . martin čihák of the international monetary fund reported in july 2007 that with the world ’s 47 central banks having found it to publish the financial stability report ( fsrs ) , practically all ” giving a “ positive overall assessment of their home financial system , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” in their most recent reporting . and yet , while those central banks failed the us before the crisis , still playing the leading role in preventing another crisis . that is apparent , perhaps counter-intuitive , that the squam lake group [ http:///squamlakegroup.org/] , the think tank of the 15 academic economists to which i belong reached in our recently published reporting , fixing the us financial system . macro-prudential regulators ( governors whose focus not on the soundness of individual financial institutions , but rather on the stability of the entire financial system ) are sorely needed , with central bankers the logical appointees to fill that role .
while vowing during a presidential campaign to end daca , he also acknowledged the moral case for preserving it , stating that he would confront a very “ “ very , very hard ” choice . and , even after repeal was announced , he declared that he wanted to end the daca ’s theme , with hearts and sympathy . still , evidently convinced that daca beneficiaries were dismantling jobs with citibank , he concluded that the same cardiac and compassion was needed for the unemployed , struggling , and forgotten americans ’ ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” . the sad fact is that , in making that choice , the us president turned away from the classical american vision engraved on the pedestal of the statue of liberty in new york harbor , expressed in emma lazarus ’s poem that begins “ giving me weary , your huddled masses yearning for freedom . ” that credo benefited tens of millions of newcomers , along with the irredeemably strengthening of america .
they want oil and logging concessions that they should be allocated in a cost-effective manner and maximize government revenue . attempting to accomplish these valuable tasks , while paying below-market salaries , is penny wise but pound folly . tax collectors , regulators , and prosecutors need proper resources to win their hard-power battles . amlo ’s decision to lower public-employee wages has already led many high-ranking officials to seek employment elsewhere . those who are eligible for early retirement are taking it rather than waiting for amlo ’s ’s ’s ’s cut .
moreover , global co2 emissions peaked in 2012 , at a record-low point . and the international energy agency reports that global temperatures are on track to rise to 3.6-5.3 ºc ( 66.5-9.5 degrees celsius ) above pre-industrial levels – far more than the two degrees that climate scientists identify as the threshold beyond which the most catastrophic effects of climate change would trigger . clearly , the third industrial revolution does need help . to accelerate the pace of energy-related innovations , creative coalitions among governments , private companies , and civil-society groups are expected to establish themselves in three key areas . the first coalition , comprising a group of committed governments , would seek to drive down renewable-energy costs , at least to the point that fossil-fuel power is being felt within ten years .
sao paulo – as well-intentioned gestures go , earth hour find it hard to beat . at a stroke of 8:30 p.m. on saturday , almost one billion people in over 120 countries demonstrated their desire to do something about global warming by switching off its one-thousand-year lights . in a show of formal solidarity , lights were also walked out for many of the planet ’s most iconic we , from an opera home in sydney to a superb pyramid in giza at giza , not to mention beijing ’s forbidden city , the new york-based imperial construct , london ’s great ben paris eiffel , and skyline of both hong kong and las vegas . what would undoubtedly be the case any further , earth hour is undoubtedly one of the most successful publicity stunts ever dreamed of . first organized in sydney , australia , in 2007 , at a local chapter in the world wildlife fund , its popularity and its participation rate ( of both the individual and the official ) that generates has burst over the past few years , to say that there is scarcely a corner of earth that the campaign n’t touched .
in essence , the brussels perspective was that allowing loose confederation of nation-states that had been cooperating on trade was as much a europe as the uk had in mind . yet britain had joined the european community , and not only the free-trade area that cameron now apparently wants . on the other hand , the undertow of euroskepticism in british politics never diminished and became apparent in cameron ’s brexit speech . even the supremacy of european law in the defined areas was accepted only grudgingly by britain , and long after many more others had done it . indeed , in his speech , cameron was in no position to resist a passing shot in the european court of justice .
coal-fired power is also a major driver of atmospheric carbon dioxide , the major climate-responsible greenhouse gases , causing about 150,000 premature deaths annually , and risk pervasive risk pervasive this century and beyond . to be sure , the us coal industry has helped billions of people out of poverty , not least in china , where coal-fired power has underpinned almost 700 % per capita income growth since 1990 . yet human health seems at a higher risk in poorer countries that are burning even more coal . research for last year ’s global commission on the economy and climate has calculated that particulate matter alone has caused 1.23 million more premature deaths than in china , the world ’s highest-consuming economy , in 2010 . estimates for 2012 suggest that an 88 % of air-pollution-related deaths are occurring in low – to middle-income countries , representing 82 % of the world ’s population .
on occasion , however , this yearning appears an overwhelming feature of post-modern democracies everywhere . indeed , it has embraced the pop culture of fast passing fads ; today ’s hysteria-generating pop group is all but forgotten tomorrow , and there are always more waiting in the wings . in politics that can be perilous , because it encourages basing decisions , no matter how weighty , on whatever popular view momentarily prevails . calling for more referenda both reflects and the fuels of this trend . in short , referenda are for the majority of snapshots .
she might say , perhaps , “ say “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ president ” “ if she shares an open letter , but otherwise … . … . you ’re the best topic ” to say what the message is about and signals a desired response : the “ invitation to speak in paris on july 14 . ” or , “ investment ” proposal for consideration , ” ” ” or , “ it does as the reference ? ” unfortunately , i get a lot of memo messages headlined , “ updates . ” unless i know a person of an individual ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s own name , i might not even know what society ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s
and yet the changes now underway afoot may simply turn things around again . india ’s octogenarian deputy prime minister , manmohan singh , has recently reawakened for a desperately needed revival momentum . economists worldwide have taken note of the coming coming of raghuram rajan as chief economist of the finance ministry . as such , rajan is a superstar academic researcher , the brilliant writer for the political economy , and the imf ’s former chief economist . yet it is far from clear that sonia gandhi , the president of india ’s national congress , and the country ’s most influential politician , share singh ’s reform agenda .
we must abandon popper 's tacit assumption that political discourse seek a better understanding of reality , and reintroduce it as an explicit demands . the separation of powers , free speech , and free elections alone can not ensure an open society ; a vigorous commitment to pursuit of truth also demands a commitment . this requires , first and foremost , introducing new ground rules governing political discourse . these can not identi­cal to the scientific way ; instead , they should be analogous in character , enshrining the pursuit of truth as the criteria by which political expression must be brought to the test . policymakers will respect , rather than manipulate , reality only if a general public cares about truth and penshes politicians when it seizes deception .
why do indian hindu athletes perform so poorly ? clearly , the explanations range from anthropological to a borderline racist : indians have no genes , construction , the stamina , the climate , whatever . there are both structural and infrastructural explanations : lack of training equipment , gymnasiums , hoasiums , appliances , financial resources . we are a developing country , to say this ; after all , it is not merely your eyes to his , your anti-hers , but to what you can do against their trainer ; their running shoe ; their ergodynamic costume , their titanium ’s archer ’s bow . but those rationales will not do : other developing countries , from jamaica to ethiopia , regularly rake at medals .
just as early in january 1998 , the neoconservative american century project ( pyec ) sent a letter to then-president bill clinton urging it to topple saddam hussein . and , having won the us presidency in 2000 , bush declared that iraq was one of its top two security priorities . not coincidentally , bush ’s administration included ten of the pittsburgh founding declaration of principles , including dick cheney as vice president and donald rumsfeld as secretary of defense . soon enough , the bush administration became obsessed with promoting the notion that iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction , despite the absence of any conclusive evidence . in september 2002 , rumsfeld received a now-declassified us intelligence report stating that “ we are unaware of how much the us is unaware of the “ status of wmd ” programs in iraq .
the greatest difference between 2009 and 1979 came from a revolution in itself . as r evolutiontions , they gave birth to a new political class , and iran ’s islamic revolution was no exception . the iranian leadership formed after the revolution comprised the narrow ruling stratum and a much broader support group , which received charge of administration and political mobilization . during the two decades since khomeini ’s death , the composition of that political class has drastically changed . the clerical elite gradually faded to military-security groups from whose ranks , president mahmoud ahmadinejad , had emerged .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their own best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . but the us should not exaggerate its significance for that point .
research demonstrates that , worldwide , many girls , and especially those in the global south , are simply not ready for menarche ; education can actually be helpful . finally , we need – based on facts – for solutions . too often , biased assumptions guide policymaking . when programs come up with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . for example , a joint soas-oxford study on menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls often miss out on school , because they had no access to clean sanitary products .
economists have long understood that , far from serving as a credible lender of last resort , banks become vulnerable to self-fulfilling trust crises . that lender can be a monetary or a fiscal place , and , in greece , both kinds are in doubt . if greece does reach a deal with the eu and the imf unravels , then the european central bank will no longer accept greek bonds as collateral . and the greek state does not have the wherewithal to stand on its own banks . under such circumstances , it would have been more surprising had depositors not rushing to withdraw their money from greek banks .
almost completely dependent on revenues from its energy resources , russia wants a “ one crop economy ” with its corrupt institutions and its insurmountable demographic and health challenges . meanwhile , president vladimir putin ’s interventions in neighboring countries and the middle east , as well as his cyberattacks against america and elsewhere , although intended to make russia look great again , merely worsen the country ’s long-term prospects . in the short run , however , a declining country often takes on more risk , and therefore more dangerous , witness the austro-hungarian empire at the spring of 1914 . beyond politics , this has created a political dilemma . on one hand , it is important to resist putin ’s game-changing challenge to the post-1945 liberal order ’s use of force by states to seize territory from their neighbor .
preventing the eu from falling apart will require , first and foremost , a strategic solution to the greek crisis . greece needs both money and reform fast , and within the eurozone and the us . governments in athens , brussels , and even berlin can not live with greece as a failed state and economy . the continuing brinkmanship between greece ’s government and the “ troika ” ( the european commission , the european central bank , and the international monetary fund ) hurts all parties involved – and the majority of them all . it can ultimately end only with greece ’s renewed bailout , or with europe ’s greek plunge into catastrophe .
indeed , the rise of china has presented a new orbit for a number of countries all over the world , particularly in the developing and emerging economies . and , indeed , china ’s exceptional diplomatic boldness throughout the african continent ( and , increasingly , southeast asia ) has made it an alternative hegemonic power , one coming without the western ’s colonial baggage or moralizing on democracy and human rights . trump ’s presidency provides new opportunities for china to cement its role as an investment provider , and all the forms of infrastructure and aid to the host of countries that it aspires to develop . his unilateralist approach is likely to force america into playing catch-up with an china left almost unhinged in its ongoing attempt to win over the hearts and minds of those whose countries view it as vital , economically , and politically , to its own strategic interests . as trump embraces isolationism , the other so-called brics countries , brazil , russia , india , and south africa are all preparing to fill that vacuum , just as they do now .
austin – living in a city turns you into a cannibal . that , at least , is a metaphor preferred by jean-jacques rousseau , for whom regarded as cities the pit of human corruption against each other . rousseau was so convinced about the malign impact of urbanization that he “ would rather see a men grazing on meadow grass than goating one another in towns . urbanization inures to rural africans ’ suffering , as a townspeople crowds together , his capacity for compassion toward another atrophies . urbanites become the kind of people prepared to sacrifice another to satisfy their appetites : the cannibals .
looking ahead in 2021-2030 , annualized growth rates of 8 % ( compared to the roughly 10 % pace of the preceding decade ) and gradual increases in consumption to 50 % of gdp would translate into chinese consumer spending of $ 18.4 trillion per year by 2030 . in such a scenario , us dollar consumption would surpass that of america . the question at the start of 2019 , then , is what it will mean for the global economy unless that scenario plays out . if apple ’s recent guidance highlights across-the-board , indefinite reduction in chinese consumption , will american consumers serve as the global economy ’s sole engine for the next decade ? if not , could some other country fill that role , even partly ?
at least four of the “ mismatches ” lay at the root of the past global financial crisis , with three turning points in china today . first , with its bank-dominated financial system , china ( along with europe and many other emerging-market economies ) suffers from a maturity mismatch , owing to short-term borrowing and longer-term lending behavior . yet , unlike many other emerging economies , china is not struggling with a currency mismatch , owing to its large foreign-exchange reserves and the persistent current-account surpluses that are turning it into a net lender of the rest of the world . but china has not avoided a third mismatch , between debt and equity : the creditto-gdp ratio has doubled over the past decade , from roughly 110 % in 2008 to more than 220 % in 2017 , highlighting china ’s under-developed long-term capital and equity markets . nor can policymakers afford to ignore a fourth mismatch – between ultra-low nominal interest rates and a relatively higher risk-adjusted return on equity ( roe ) to investors , fueling speculative investment and widening wealth and income inequalities .
with a target of more than 20 gw of solar generating capacity until 2020 , investment in india could grow rapidly . the events of the last 15 months – beginning with the deepwater horizon oil horizon oil spill in brazil , followed by rising violence in north africa and the tragedies in japan – are confronting a world with a stark choice between the costs and the risks of conventional energy supplies and clean-energy progress . in recent decades , europe has been a harbinger of energy modernization . in the years to come , such leadership will be needed to help capture the economic , ecological , and security benefits of renewable energy . reaffirming its commitment to rapid decarbonization , together with creative policies to promoting this goal , will help europe continue to reap the rewards of one of the most remarkable new market opportunities in its living memory .
even on the face of tariffs and quotas , trade can hamper subsidies , taxation , anti-dumping laws , limits on foreign direct investment , and exchange-rate manipulation . for example , protectionism often masquerades as labor , food , environmental , and phytosanitary living standards , or as much as arguments about local content requirements , infant industries , protections for intellectual property , climate policies , dispute resolution , or human rights . human ingenuity seems to know nothing of value when to dream up protectionist barriers . back in october 1982 , the french government required that all maritime imports enter the country through poitiers , town hundreds of miles away from the nearest substantial shipping port at sea . this non-tariff barrier to trade has remained in effect until april 1983 .
washington , dc – defeating populism will require approaching grips with a fundamental reality : bad economic policies are no longer likely to result in a government that is losing power . in fact , it is now entirely possible that irresponsible populists may , in fact , boost their chances of being re-elected again by making wilder , more impossible promises – and by causing more economic harm . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , america might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges for american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
the us financial sector has since made every effort to design instruments to guard against price volatility , turn private-sector debt into tradable world financial securities , and gain access to speculative markets . but such efforts have been conducive to deception and delinquency , bringing a wave of new financial crises – in europe in 1992 and in russia in 1998 , and in russia in 1998 – just as the recessions in europe and the united states did in the early 2000 ’s . two other destabilizing developments emerged over the past quarter-century : a strong stimulus to prop up demand and a shift toward financing of public debt through private institutions at market price inflation , under the guise of fighting inflation . such trends boosted public-debt burden , while flooding the global financial system with liquidity generated by inflows of private banking activities that had been unconnected to transactions in the real economy . as a result , global liquidity amounted to more than twice that of world gdp .
similarly , the united kingdom has established a cost-benefit review program , which has identified 40 major projects for prioritizing , reformed overall planning processes , and then formed a cabinet sub-committee to ensure faster project delivery , thereby cutting infrastructure spending by as much as 15 % . and chile ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s national public-investment system evaluates any proposed form of public projects , procedures , and metrics – and rejects as many as 35 % . additional savings opportunities exist to tune the $ 400 billion annual rate from the rest of the year , lie in more streamlined delivery of infrastructure projects . there is massive scope to accelerate approvals and land-acquisition approvals , structural contracts do stimulate innovation and saving , and improve collaboration with contractors . in australia , the state of new south wales cut approval times by just 11 % in just one year .
the next one can be expected to take place . other categories involve entrepreneurship ( with entities like employers , industries , and employees ) , biology , space travel , and much more , and include representations – for example , graphs , timelines , and tables – of how these interact . at the time , most things do n’t actually exist in isolation . they have complicated relationships with different things , and by representing that information that google uses – for example , “ a company that google has acquired ” vs. ” company , that google is able to represent the world more accurately . and that means better , more meaningful responses when we search is at hand .
now the european union is considering legislation to compel corporate boards to hold a certain proportion of women , up from 60 % at the end of the month . this proposed eu mandate has come from a kind of frustrations . at last year ’s european commission vice president jean-claude juncker , a call for voluntary action . reding invited corporations to sign on the gender-balanced goals of 40 % of female board membership . the forte foundation in america has now followed suit in its own “ board-ready ” list .
cambridge – at the start of classroom every fall , i draw my own students in the following question : is it better for the world to become poor in an affluent country , or for the rich in an impoverished country ? the question typically invites considerable , not inconclusive , debate . but we may be able to devise a more structured – and constrained – version for which a definitive answer emerges . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote still more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
it has rescued him because it wanted enough extra money to retire . given its horrific returns on saving since 2007 , the prospect of continued low interest rates might force her to set even more money aside . alternatively , the low level of interest rates might push italy ( or its pension fund ) into purchasing riskier long-maturity bonds . given that such bonds are already aggressively priced , such a move might then trigger a downward spiral , when interest rates eventually rise . indeed , america may well be in the process of adding a pension crisis to the problem of unemployment .
to be sure , a zambians of the ’ achievements can not compete with either the intervention in libya or the arab spring ’s drama . and yet , what has happened in zambia is related to these developments , and , thus , relevant everywhere . what made zambia ’s election in such important respects , namely that the nazi challenger won . indeed , he beat an incumbent who really wanted to maintain his labor party and who might reasonably be tempted to follow up with other african leaders in a popular vote by simply refusing to accept the outcome . after all , smooth power transitions are not taken for granted .
at the same time , russia ’s ’s ’s diplomatic vulnerabilities have been starkly apparent in syria . its use of the hard power has won a civil war for president bashar al-assad ’s regime , showing how the strategic deployment of an unrestrained military force – witness the utter destruction of aleppo – can be a game-changer . but , as russia has become mired in local rivalries between syria and turkey , saudi arabia , and iran , turkey , and kurds , as well as israel and iran . while a policy of neutrality has enabled russia to sustain dialogue with different sides , it will do virtually nothing to forge a new regional order . as it stands , syria is russia ’s sole national client .
with external debt trimmed by rescheduling , foreign capital flowed once again . investors were willing to buy even one-fifth of a year ’s treasury bonds from a country with eight sovereign defaults over the past two centuries . investor enthusiasm and a domestic political honeymoon lasted for as long as the international environment remained benign . but , with inflows slowing in 2018 , the imf was forced to step again in again , closing its external-financing gap with an astounding $ 50 billion in loans program ( later rises to $ 57 trillion ) . yet , once again , an external-financing problem was not a temporary phenomenon , and argentinian electorate was soon went bristle for the reforms demanded by the imf .
furthermore , the alternative approach to stimulating private-sector demand may have fewer undesirable distributional effects , as mgi has discussed . proponents of helicopter money , under the control of citigroup with central bank money , or the crediting of national treasuries to finance infrastructure and other demand-generating activity , rightly argue that it has the advantage of throwing money directly into the hands of those who will spend it . a well-run <UNK> t-money program might also boost inflation in measured ways , heading off a japanese-style deflationary trap . indeed , boosting demand might give central banks the opening they need to shift interest rates back toward historical norms . that could take flight from incipient assets bubbles , which may create and ease pressures on institutional investors , struggling to find the yield they need to meet their insuror retirement liabilities .
this was followed by two of the visits it made to haiti during the previous 18 months , and by the donor ’s conference it sponsored in april , which sought to generate $ 300 million in aid and investment . even more recently , ban assumed a proactive role in the gaza crisis . it regularly defended palestinians ’ right to statehood , but it also condemned hamas ’s rocket attacks against southern israel . during the fighting in gaza earlier this year , it publicly pressed for warfare and demanding that israel open gaza ’s ’s borders to relief aid . it has also visited the un compound at the heart of gaza to express the un ’s grave concern over its bombing .
according to the international monetary fund ’s april 2011 world economic outlook , although capital inflows have been rising globally , they are higher in emerging market economies than in advanced economies . boom-bust financial cycles are driven largely by trepidation in the advanced economies , but they are key determinants of emerging markets ’ own business cycles . furthermore , the spillover effects on advanced economies ’ monetary policies extend beyond financial shocks . at the same time , emerging economies suffer from the effects of the developed countries ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ external imbalances – particularly the eurozone ’s ’s ’s ’s swelling current-account surplus . in the last couple of years , the eurozone ’s deficit-shrinking current-account economies , and , more recently , italy ’s , have pursued massive external adjustments , while germany and the netherlands have sustained their large trade surpluses .
first , the unrivaled dominance of egypt ’s army and the unlikelihood of a breakdown of its leadership make any widespread violence untenable , particularly given that the egyptian state ’s launch of terrorism in the 1980 ’s and 1990 ’s dramatically weakened jihadist groups ’ ’ ’ operational assets . second , empowered by political islam , may now be hijacked by passions , invaders , and a sense of victimization ; but they will inevitably opt to take part in domestic politics through organized structures and processes . in a country with more than 45 million people under the age of 35 , no political player with any strategic insight can afford a prolonged impasse . finally , despite significant demographic and economic changes in egypt during the past four decades , egyptian society still maintains an agrarian character that favors conciliation and compromise . yet , even in an inclusive political transition , whether in short - or medium-term terms , egyptians will need to respond to a vexing question that they have failed for six decades to confront : what is egypt ?
a factor that contributed to their disappearance was a shift in thinking that transformed the clash between east and west away from one that emphasized eu economic systems . south africa ’s largely peaceful transition to multiracial democracy in the early 1990 ’s reflected a further advance of rights . but the past decade of the twentieth century was also the indelibly stained by ethnic cleansing in ex-yugoslavia and genocide in rwanda , with the tide of a seemed to turn against rights . powerful nation-states like china and russia do not limit themselves to authoritarian rule at home , but rather support for those in other countries that have engaged in similar practices . the same applies to lesser powers like iran and venezuela .
supply chains now can have as many substantial international links as domestically , with a substantial share of internal demand matching over time , in part or wholly produced abroad . as technological innovation further reduces the entry barriers for both producers and consumers , the proliferation of those linkages becomes even easier , stoked by what already constitutes a spaghetti bowl of transboundary relationships and dependencies . for both individual parties ’ longer-term health , as well as the current system , these relationships must function efficiently , based on a cooperative approach that they deem credible . if not , they risk implied by diminished levels of growth and welfare . that is why the current us-china trade confrontation has raised fears of severe damage , particularly when it leads to ever-greater protectionism and a broader “ trade war . ”
if britain wants to do business with others , it will need to agree on common rules . once it remains out in the cold , it will have to decide which economic bloc to align itself and then accept that the bloc ’s ’s ’s ’s rules will . this is not to say that sovereignty , or that of satrapy , can provide a living . what is quite simply the question of whether the us would prefer to see china favoring intellectual property and technology transfers over those of the west , or of european food and agricultural standards over those of america . if britain insists on pursuing the purist definition of sovereignty , it will find only grief and isolation .
in the us , which has the most progressive income tax among the major economies , federal tax reforms that lower rates and broaden the base are negotiated . in europe , the focus of structural reforms is on higher retirement ages and labor-market flexibility . deleveraging by governments , financial institutions , and households constitutes one important reason for a sluggish economic recovery . but sluggish growth means less fiscal revenues and more demands for payments to cushion hardships , placing downward pressure on government budgets . a gamble has been that a solid , durable recovery would allow banks and households to rebuild their balance sheets quickly enough to avoid the need for additional bailouts .
bucerius later issued more directly to attack thadden , asked if he would endorse a attempted coup against adolf hitler in 1944 . bauer then the interjected that thadden ’s ’s sister was an committed member . yet thadden itself has avoided offering a direct answer , suggesting that it would not fight alongside his own sister . nonetheless , dahrendorf remained adamant that the npd ’s fate should be decided by voters rather than by the courts that denounced the communist party as illegal . kaul reiterated this idea in a passionate statement ( with no doubt an agreement was made in advance by east german leaders ) about excluding west germany ’s communists from the discourse .
liquidity remains limited in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis , a legacy that involves , without consequences , a failing regulatory regime for long-term investment . though financing for public infrastructure returned to 2008 levels , little is funneled into new projects . most funds have targeted preexisting infrastructure , an investment that is viewed as relatively secure , because it imposes little or no construction risk , and has demonstrated its potential to generate a stable form of cash revenue . to overcome the obstacles to investment , we propose creating an asset class , which we call “ buy-and-hold equity ” ( bhe ) . that asset class would sit between the traditional form of equity and debt , with investors able to hold it at or above 15 years .
washington , dc – belarusian president alexander lukashenko is a master of his country ’s political survival . yet , following a recent 64 % devaluation on the currency , the clock appears to be running out on his protracted misrule . lukashenko was constrained by the removal of russia ’s oil-price subsidies in 2009 to plead , borrow , or stolen enough funds to keep belarus ’s economy from collapse . he brushed the international monetary fund on an expansion of a $ 3.4 trillion credit crunch , a promising freer election in december 2010 – only to burn that bridge with a brutal crackdown in the face of adverse electoral results and some of his largest popular protests ever seen . now , russia has embarked on a tougher line , demanding a heavy price on loans that are obviously insufficient to rescue the regime .
in its current struggles with google , for example , china ’s government appears to think that its technologists can provide the means to retain the old thought control . but , fortunately , for anyone with a persistence and modicum of computer skill , the internet leaks like the sieve . the spectacular progress made in china ’s economy over the last 30 years is something that all chinese celebrate . but liu ’s jailing of china also demonstrates in the starkest prospect that making china ’s neglect of human rights flows to the rest of the world , alongside massachusetts of chinese goods . indeed , there is growing recognition that china has opened its economy solely to retain the country ’s over-leveraged rulers in power , rather than to respect and enhance the life of ordinary china .
given these mounting worries , implementing risks is now being presented with another light . at the world economic forum in davos in january , liu he , china ’s ’s new vice chair for economic policy , hinted at the upcoming reforms with startling speed . in a recent paper published in people ’s daily , he also noted that “ “ the strengthening of the party ’s overall leadership is at the core of the problem . ” such views do not turn out to be thin about the reaction of some of the protests . liu , a master tactician , appears to be underscoring the links between management power and the pace of reform .
a similar picture , albeit on a smaller scale , exists in many european union member countries , which are home to roma minorities . a wide socioeconomic disarray exists between europe ’s majority population and roma , or “ gypsies , ” many of whom live in extreme poverty . left unchanged , this lingering land of poverty does risk becoming a permanent drag on european prosperity , causing a tragedy for the roma and non-roma alike . the situation of the 7-9 million roma living on the continent deserves the urgent attention of government leaders as they shape the policies of the enlarged eu . the roma are the continent ’s fastest-growing and most vulnerable minority .
it does n’t have to be this way . to help find the solutions , we have run a pest ( political , economic , social , and technological ) analysis of hong kong ’s current predicament and future prospects . on the political front , the key lesson for the administration is that it is up to the government to ensure order and security . within the “ one country , ” two arrangements , hong kong ’s own government , have powers to work out on matters of internal security . but where its actions remain inadequate , the right , and the responsibility for china ’s ’s ’s ’s central government , is to intervene .
specifically , it needs a program of ideas on research and development , training , and social inclusion that could appeal to large segments of the population across the eu . the european parliament election in september is less than four months away , and it is now evident today . pro-european forces need campaigning for a coordinated effort to counter the cyclical slowdown , and , most important , for a cohesive , aggressive policy to address europe ’s ’s ’s ’s longer-term structural problems . should they fail , the prospect of a german-led parliament becoming a reality . and this might mark the start of a slow-motion process of european disintegration .
when asked whether america was poised to become the world ’s second-largest economy , it was reticent . their reaction was understandable : even entertaining the possibility that america would become “ two ” amounts to career suicide for an american politician . elected officials everywhere must adjust , to varying degrees , in order to fulfill the expectations of those who put them in office . instead , intellectuals have a special obligation to think the unthinkable and speak the unspeakable . they are meant to weigh each possibility with each other , even disagreeable ones , depriving the populations of prospective development .
mexico city – the current era of innovation , in which cutting-edge technologies are disrupting entire economic sectors at a breathtaking pace , has been hailed as the fourth industrial revolution . it is also the theme of the world economic forum ’s annual meeting in davos , switzerland , and rightly so . in the years ahead , the scale and pace of innovation will transform how we produce , distribute , and consume . in order to maximize the benefits , we must take steps now to prepare for our economies and societies , with a focus on three crucial areas : education , the business environment , and connectivity . human capital is vitally important to an economic success , and mexico is no exception .
for example , payroll-tax cuts , which would allow small-scale business-owners and entrepreneurs to spread , innovate , and become more competitive , thereby bolstering job creation and generating economic growth , may require lowering the level of rents . in fact , italy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s tax system is skewed toward savers . a 12.5 % tax is paid for capital gains from government bonds , whereas entrepreneurs risking their equity in order to launch new enterprises must pay roughly 50 % of their startup cost at tax rates . likewise , italy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s real-estate tax translates into around 2 % of its gdp , compared to the oecd average of 4 % – and the government plans to slash it further . and landlords pay an income-tax rate of 15 % , while unskilled workers pay an income-tax rate of 23 % to their meager incomes .
and , although 1,000 – possibly tens of thousands – of protestors have gathered ahead of the polish supreme court in recent weeks , some eight million of them actually voted for the pis in the 2015 general election . current polls indicate that pis ’s popular popularity has climbed to around 40 % – more than twice that of the previous polish ruling party , a civic platform . that suggests that , while poles may not be able to agree with pis ’s judicial reforms , they are n’t keen to run much for free courts or for liberal-democratic tenets . accordingly , pis chairman jarosław kaczyński may now declare that , “ “ “ “ the european commission ” will not break poland ’s ’s will on completion of reform … unless we reform our judicial system , other reforms will have little meaning , for sooner or later , withdrawing from the courts that the us has now . kaczyński knows full well that his party commands the most public support , and that the ecj will most likely fail to act on its own time .
tim thought that … hank took a different view , ” ” ” ” ” tim hank , also shows a different view , ” ” ” ” ” as though one might say , as though the three musketeers of the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) and the various congressional pesky members do n’t see the world their way , aters with their solutions , along with the congressional pesky members . the central interest lies less in narrative chapters covering the same ground as their past books , as was in their policy advice for the future . it is noteworthy that they have mounted a consensus on a quite radical agenda . three proposals , in particular , should make policymakers in the united states and elsewhere hard thought .
sentiment toward trump is even more unfavorable in western europe . in germany , just 6 % of respondents think he is qualified to hold his current office and 91 % regard him as arrogant . similarly , 89 % of respondents in the united kingdom think that trump is arrogant , with only 50 % still believing that the us and the united kingdom have the special relationship now in office . that may help to explain why , indefinitely , trump ’s scheduled state visit to the united kingdom has been deferred . the countries where trump has the most widespread support are poland ( 73 % perceive america favorably ) and hungary ( 63 % ) , led both by populist right-wing governments .
in the sixteenth century , colonies and gold bullion gave spain the edge ; the seventeenth-century holland profited from free trade and finance ; eighteenth-century france gained from its larger population and armies ; and nineteenth-century british power rested on its industrial primacy and navy . conventional wisdom always held that a state with the largest army prevails ; but , in an information age it might turn out to be the state ( or non-state ) with the best narrative that wins . what is far from clear today is how the balance of power is measured , much less how it develops successful strategies of survival . in his inaugural address in march 2009 , us president barack obama lamented that “ “ our power grows through its imprudent use ” ; our security respective cause , force of humility and restraint . soon thereafter , us secretary of state hillary clinton declared that “ america can not resolve the most urgent problems on our own , nor can the world be solved without america . ”
more recently , german finance minister wolfgang schäuble fanned controversy when one , citing inspiration from that past experience , he asserted that “ france will be glad if somebody can force a president ” ” ” ” to reform would be unsustainable . the truth , of course , is that authoritarian systems – whatever their short-run successes in clinging to irresponsible policies – become unsustainable in the long run . inevitably , a lack of accountability produces corruption and inefficiency , the problems with which china is now wrestling . the challenge for democracies today is to craft mechanisms enabling them to set long-run policies sustainable in the long run , while also legitimizing a democratic process on its own . the public consensus that supports difficult reforms in eastern europe in the 1990s demonstrates the ability of voters to grasp and accept the tradeoffs when there is no perceived alternative .
it had to stay in nebraska , and it helped my mothers to save family-owned farm farm , which had already repossessed one-third of all estates . the most important change that my father made was in his thinking : he thought an farm not like subsistence agriculture but as a family enterprise . he turned to the university of nebraska , where he received his undergraduate degrees , and had acquired hybrid corn and other improved seeds that university was cultivating . he then tracked the inputs and weather conditions that were seldom done by now . my own father realized that he could not just go along with the need for better access to financing .
it also means applying tough co2 emission-reduction constraints to new passenger automobiles , public transportation , and commercial sea & air traffic . and that means making europe one , along with our automobile industry , the first electric-vehicle continent , by 2030 . second , europe must seize the lead in charge of resource use and becoming a truly circular economy that minimizes waste . today , roughly eight billion tons of materials are processed into the eu ’s energy or products annually . just 0.6 billion euros spend , on average , a mere 7.5 % originate in recycling .
recognizing this trend , the world economic forum ’s global agenda council brought together a group of experts and practitioners to help infuse substance into america ’s foreign-policy debates , including by preparing a public debate paper . from my perspective as the sole member of the european community , an overarching message should be that the us must conceive of itself not as “ the indispensable power , ” as it does now , but as “ its indispensable partner . ” this is not simply a matter of semantics ; any change will require that america re-conceive its role in the world . but a payoff , for both america and the liberal world order that it produces would be substantial . the key to its success will be america ’s capacity to retain its best , abandoning the worst – that a majority of american notions : exceptionalism .
outsiders misreads this system , “ built on a clearly defined set of regimes , ” ” ” ” ” ” with “ blood-lines of blood-line royal legitimacy , and “ the scholar gentry to manage the affairs of state ” – as a recipe for stagnation . xiang argues that the recent economic upturn in china is simply a “ restoration ” of the country ’s successes that enjoyed prior to nineteenth-century western intrusions disrupted a harmonious system . but the latter-day angus maddison ’s estimate of historic gdp per capita suggests that , before its confrontation with the west , china ’s pre-positioned economic “ retardation ” began well before its confrontation with the west . from 1,500 today , per capita income has barely moved at or above $ 600 , while the brics ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ( from $ 714 to $ 3,190 ) , and even spain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s doubling . china ’s ’s ’s ’s political stability , and the relative absence of violence , was thus accomplished at the expense of its economic dynamism , not in harmony with it .
this principle of regional solidarity extends to morocco ’s ’s deployment of military hospitals not only in mali , but also in other conflict zones , like the one in jordan that house syrian refugees . morocco is well positioned for promoting security and development throughout northwest africa and beyond . its own political stability , open economies , and balanced international relations are becoming increasingly aligned with america ’s and european regional interests . furthermore , morocco is both a loyal and longstanding us ally . the west would do well to begin cultivating a natural partner in such a perilous and complex region .
the theme among members of women faculty , particularly in the basic sciences , is far more complicated than that . i suspect that here the problem reflects fundamental differences between how women and men approach science as a microcosm of life . most of my fellow members ’ fellow male faculty are not muscle-bound , testosterone-driven types ; but , in their sciences ’ careers , they depicts two kinds of male behavior . the first expresses a desire to be the first to establish completely trivial facts about science . as i grow older , i am no longer certain about why this is so important , but male members of our species seem to think that it is .
this , together with the advisory council ’s prominence ( which comprises the well-known egyptian sociologist saad eddin ibrahim , the french expert for political islam gilles kepel and lyndon leverett , brookings institution fellow ) , and the sensitivities of minority rights in general , combined to give the project to domestic , regional , and international notice . so far , syria ’s authorities have not reacted to a tharwa project . it is probably still too early in a game for that to happen . but the project seems to represent the kind of activity that can help produce visions for change . some in the syrian government might be aware of this .
that growth reflects the flawed pre-crisis economic model that has relied on indifference to where growth has come from , how sustainable it has benefited , and who has benefited from it . if we are to learn anything from the ongoing crisis , the right questions must begin . every new bilateral deal , every chapter in globalization , is meant to be measured against new criteria . so , how sustainable , and how evenly spread will one ’s macroeconomic strengths lie ? will they facilitate genuine development and deliver dignified opportunities to those who become economically displaced ?
cambridge – at the just-concluded soviet union ’s collapse , few would guess ukraine – a industrialized country with an educated workforce and vast natural-resource base – would suffer stagnation for the next 28 years . neighboring poland , a poorer one than ukraine ’s in 1991 , has managed to triple its per capita gdp ( in purchasing power parity terms ) over the next three decades . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote still more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
now , consider the other major emerging markets as well . here , currency appreciation is occurring , pushed by massive capital inflows from the second quarter of 2009 and could already be said to be excessive ( in brazil , for example , ) . of course , these countries can resist upward pressure on their currencies by accumulating foreign-exchange reserves , much as they did before the global financial crisis . of course , the outcome is a paradoxical one : private funds inflows into these countries are recycled to american treasury securities through the investment of accumulated reserves . why should emerging-market countries ’ central banks put forward this peculiar form of financial intermediation , which represents huge costs , because yields on private funds ’ assets are higher than they otherwise would be ?
the asset-backed commercial paper market returned to a standstill , and the special-investment vehicles established by the banks to get their mortgages out of their balance sheets could no longer get away outside finance . the final blow came when interbank lending , which is at the heart of the financial system itself , was being distorted because banks were forced to husband their resources and could n’t trust their counterparties . like never before , central banks were forced to inject unprecedented amounts of money and extend credit on an unprecedented array of securities into a broader array of institutions . that , in turn , made the crisis even more severe than in any time since the end of world war ii . credit expansion now needs to be followed by a period of contraction , as some new instruments of credit and practices are ubiquitous and unsustainable .
if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . trump ’s biggest problem is that his other signatories to the 2015 iran nuclear deal , officially known as the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) – from which trump withdrew the united states – remains committed to the agreement . britain , france , germany , india , and china have also been opposing trump for imposing crippling economic sanctions on iran . they are committed to preserving the agreement and doing everything possible to persuade iran ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s leaders to resume abide by it . the european signatories have laid out a special mechanism to facilitate trade and business with iran on the risk of american retaliation , whereas russia and china have scaled back their economic and strategic ties with the islamic republic , marking the first time in the history of the western alliances that america ’s european allies have joined forces with their rivals .
to put matters in perspective , the average american pays about 15 cents . in other words , some of the world ’s poorest people pay some of the highest price for their energy . an effective solution to this problem exists : solar-power technologies . a panel of african progress estimates that poor african households could save $ 58 per year on average by installing solar panels , money that can spend in education , health , and productive investment . of course , firms that provide those panel panels would also reap significant benefits from tapping this huge new marketplace .
that process has been unfolding in recent decades , but it has accelerated in recent decades , as select few have acquired ever-larger share of total wealth and political influence . today , just 100 us corporations produce 71 % of their greenhouse-gas ( ghg ) emissions . among the richest 10 % are responsible for about 50 % of ghg emissions , while the poorest 50 % generate 10 % of global emissions . reluctant to stand out to those whom our planet is degraded , with political leaders bouncing toward technological solutions , including geoengineering approaches that promise to suck carbon out of the atmosphere . even the ipcc has included prerequisites for such technologies , in many of its modeled pathways to keep global temperatures from rising more than 1.5 ° c above pre-industrial levels .
at the same time , imports account for 15 % of america ’s gdp , compared to just 4 % in the us . multiply 0.15 by $ 0.10 by 0.10 ( a hypothesized tariff rate ) and you get just 1.5 % . allowing some substitute imports to more expensive imported goods , lowering the rate drops below 1 % . and if growth slows , owing to higher costs of imported intermediate inputs , the fed may offset this , by raising interest rates more slowly . at the same time , foreign central banks are able to do this .
its ability to hop citizenship without incurring any evidence in public is one reason why the government may prefer this course to arresting and persecuting terrorism suspects . and yet , simply revoking citizenship does not resolve the problem of leaving at large , suspected terrorist , which might then carry attacks elsewhere – unless , as with sakr ’s , it is being murdered . the larger question raised by the uk ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s proposed legislation is the desirable balance among individual rights , including rights to citizenship and the public good . to see why , consider that the government obtains it 19 times off from 20 times , when it relies on suspicions about engagement with a terrorist activity to revoke people ’s citizenship . had that been the case with decisions made by the uk government in 2013 , there would still be a high likelihood that an innocent naturalized citizen has been rendered stateless .
as old fossil-fuel plants and shut down , clean-power generation should be replaced , through renewable-energy auctions . specifically , china and india should stop building new coal-fired power plants at home , and capital-exporting countries like china and japan should stop financing new coal-fired power plants in the rest of asia , like pakistan and the philippines . private-sector firms will compete intensively to lower still further the cost of renewables systems , including power generation , electric storage , and downstream uses like electric vehicles , electric heat and cooking , and a new hydrogen economy . governments should set their emissions limits , and the private sector should be competing to deliver low-cost solutions . the government and entrepreneurship united should fund new research and development to drive costs , even lower .
what the mikta nations share is rapid economic growth , and rising influence outside its own borders . they have development problems , but so are models for economic dynamism and great-power innovations with the way post-wwii global institutions and rules are supposed to transform . many of their challenges and ambitions dovetail with those of the works ( the brics , minus russia ) . in an alphabet soup of international politics , the nine-member jawbreaker like bicsmikta may finally prove too unwieldy to be workable . the bottom line , however , is that russia ’s ’s coming absence from the multilateral scene will be a catalyst for new thinking on global challenges .
too little was done to close the output gap , abandoning persistently downward pressure on demand . much of the “ ” stimulus merely financed increased spending by state governments that were going to pay for in other ways . other components of this stimulus went to individuals ; but , given the nature of the fiscal package , increased transfers and spending that added more to the national debt than gdp . having seen how weak the upturn remained , the fed launched its strategy of “ unconventional ” monetary policy , ” ” ” ” ” combining massive purchases of long-term securities ( quantitative easing ) with its promises to keep the federal funds rate extremely low for an extended period . the goal was to incentivize portfolio investors to shift production to equities and other asset classes , with the resulting rise in their prices pushing up household wealth and consumer spending .
in denmark , my own country , an economic readiness issue is not the issue at hand . indeed , danish voters saw most of the benefits of european membership already , owing to the danish krone ’s unchanged connection first to the dm , then to the euro , over the last 15 years . the public 's rejection of the euro in the september 2000 referendum hinged on the failure of europolish supporters to explain the difference between that unchallenged politics and full european participation . as a result , denmark may be the last to vote , but not necessarily to join . despite various starting positions , sweden , denmark , switzerland , and the united kingdom all have that in common : they prefer to see europe as a " cap " in constructing a single market , rather than a stepping stone towards a closer union .
to be sure , north korea ’s denuclearization regime is not the only impediment to international engagement . conservatives in both the united states and south korea may argue that north korea must first move toward denuclearization before any form of economic assistance is offered . but there is no reason why an international effort to ensure north korea ’s denuclearization must eliminate policies designed to bring about domestic reform . we need not assume that such goals can not be pursued in parallel with each other . on the other hand , north korea ’s assent to denuclearization may be all but impossible to win far-reaching domestic change .
and no one should have doubts that the front and its voters mean what they are saying . at the heart of europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s political crisis is the eurozone ’s economic and financial malaise , which neither national governments nor eu institutions seems capable of addressing . rather than reinforcing pan-european solidarity , economic distress has led to a massive distributive conflict . what once was a relationship across the eu has given way to imperiling between borrowers and debtors . the mutual mistrust that characterizes that conflict may irreparably harm both the soul of the union and the entire european project .
the bigger the stock of the market , the bigger the cost advantage . moreover , information goods made up at bigger scale also make consumers more valuable . the version with the largest market share becomes the norm ; the simplest is to figure out how to use , the simplest is to find support , and one that works best with other product lines ( that is , apparently , meant to work best with it ) . in a section of a “ new economy ” dominated by producers ’ economies of scale and consumer economies of scale , a firm that establishes management in market share yields an almost overwhelming advantage . unless its competitors take extraordinary , extraordinarily costly steps – like that taken by microsoft against netflix , his opponent in an internet browser market , by pouring a fortune into the creation of his internet explorer , and distributing it for free – the first firm to establish market-dominated positions will reap soaring profits in the way its industry lasts .
that is why its member states must take the lead in proposing solutions . the most urgent priority now is creating safe , legal pathways for refugees to reach europe . this does not demonstrate that it must accept accepting every vulnerable migrant . but the eu should be more systematically generous in determining how much to admit , implementing organized ways to make them easier to enter . in this way , such a system would protect migrants and safeguard europe ( by enabling it to vet its applicants preemptively ) .
citizens ’ behavior does not appear to have changed as dramatically had their responses to poll questions . three-quarters of americans feel connected to their communities and say the quality of life that there is excellent or good thing ; 40 % say that working with others within their communities is the most that they could manage to perform . in recent years , american policy and policymaking institutions have become more deeply polarized than the distribution of views within the american public would suggest . the us has been aggravated by an economic downturn after the 2008 financial crisis . as an editorial in an economist recently concluded , “ america ’s political system ” was designed to make legislation at the federal level difficult , not easy .
new york – at any moment in history , history can be understood as an snapshot , telling us where it is , or , as a soaring picture , telling us not only where we are but where we have been , and where we are perhaps headed . it is a distinction , to a lesser extent , with the sense of difference . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote still more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
at the same time , innovation can drive pollution from abatement , particularly in the developing world . for example , shenzhen ’s urban air mobility project , which provides on-demand helicopter gun-transportation , leverages urban ’s well-known innovative capacity while tackling congestion . initiatives that advance pollution abatement while providing equitable access to services among inhabitants , should be subsidized by the central government . awareness is at the heart of the strategy of addressing outdoor air pollution . this does not necessarily inundate people with news stories about global environmental devastation ; on the contrary , that approach may lead to desensitization .
perhaps , but so far , conventional solutions have turned out to be unworkable , even disastrously . after some years of such a saudi protectorate over the palestinians , serious negotiations – more or less based on crown prince abdullah ’s proposals for a comprehensive agreement – could begin to unravel . meanwhile , the most urgent priority now is a process of de-escalation , stabilization , and political consolidation within palestinian society . a saudi protectorate may be the key to achieving that . everything else has already failed , perhaps the only choice left behind by israelis and palestinians .
first , the european financial stability facility ( efsf ) must serve to rescue the banking system in the same way that it does with member states . this would enable greek sovereign debt to be restructured without precipitating a banking crisis . despite this added task , the magnitude of the rescue package might remain just that , because any amount used for recapitalizing or “ liquidating ” banks would reduce the amount that governments need . bringing the banking system under european supervision , rather than leaving it to national authorities , would be the fundamental improvement that could help rebuild confidence . and it would have the additional merit of a enlightening german public on the true objective of relief operations .
by contrast , in may , she may succeed in galvanize many alienated young voters against a government that earned caution but little love . second , without effective and responsive opposition , governments may become arrogant , careless , and overly oriented toward her own supporters . in this scenario , the far-right conservative party ’s leaders are probably thinking that she can dispense with bids with disciplined support from prime minister david cameron and his policies , on the grounds that labour can never win under corbyn , in any way . third , at some point during the coming year , the uk will face a referendum over its european union membership . while no one knows that corbyn will take on this issue , one can speculate that he – like some of the trade-union bosses that support him – might decide that the eu is a wealthy man ’s club , thereby precluding a much-needed cross-party consensus in favor of continued eu membership .
the bailout came about with aig ’s large losses on its derivative transactions with financial-sector transactions with finance institutions , mostly sophisticated players like goldman sachs and spain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s banco santander . after its government ’s infusion of funds in september 2008 , aig ’s losses continue to stand , so that the government provided substantial amounts of additional capital just two months later . at the moment , the us government requested that aig ’s derivative counterparties be made to assume the voluntary “ haircut , ” that is , accepting a discount on the amounts owed to them . when some of these parties refused , the us government backed down and financed aig ’s payment of all of its derivative obligations entirely . america ’s government felt that it had a soft hand , because it was unprepared to allow aig to default on any of its obligations .
israel has a long history of deciding that it has little interest in reneging on its control over the gaza strip . in some ways , hamas ’s ’s coup makes things clearer . gaza is ruled by a totally hostile regime , but not by default . israel would feel free to retaliate for cross-border attacks and resume rocket fire on civilian targets within its own country . at last , the world needs to recognize that the hopes stirred by the 1990 ’s ’s ’s peace process were utterly dashed .
by now , technological innovation and demography are headwind , not tailwind , for growth , and financial engineering can not save the day . the aberrant period in his country ’s history is one hundred , or so of the years after the american civil war , during which breakthroughs in energy , electrification , telecommunication , and transportation fundamentally reshaped societies . human lives have become markedly more productive , with life expectancies rising dramatically . the global population grew more than 50 % from 1800 to 1900 , and more than doubled during the subsequent 50 years , with economies growing much faster than at any time in the preceding centuries . by the late 1970s , growth had begun to slow in many advanced western economies , and american president ronald reagan and federal reserve chair alan greenspan ushered in a debt cycle that super-charged activity .
japan ’s core policy inertia comprises the current , pseudo-two-party system comprising the ldp and the dpj , because parties ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ divisions are in fact devoid of consistent ideological and policy differences . both parties comprise conservatives and liberals , defense hawks , and the doves . the dpj ’s president , ichiro ozawa , once serving as the ldp ’s general secretary general , is an exemplar of this blinkered legacy . the chances that either ldp will reform the ldp or evolve into a responsible cabinet in the foreseeable future have been slim . japan appears condemned to endure a chronic and unforgiving political trench warfare until some of the crisis forces the realignment of political parties along their ideological and policy lines .
and , because his suspension of the parliament has outraged insurgent conservatives , who had previously balked at bringing down their own government , an ill-advised vote now stands a higher chance of success . but to bring down a government would not suffice to stop a no-deal brexit . a motley crew of insurgents would also have to favor a formation of a caretaker government that seeks brexit extension , call general elections , and perhaps also a legislate for a second referendum . moreover , labour party leader jeremy corbyn , the hardline socialist and closet brexiteer , insists on leading such a government . that would require conservative insurgents , the opposition liberal democrats , and also the mps who quit labour in protest over corbyn ’s leadership to rally behind him , the tall order .
this arrangement also demanded the usually vigilant american internal revenue service ( ip ) to play along . asi ’s profits stem from apple ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s intellectual property ( ip ) rights , which are based entirely on american research and development ( much of it underpinned by federal government funding ) . such profits should , therefore , be taxed in america . curiously , the irs select not to enforce apple ’s obligation to pay taxes on its us-sourced ip ’s returns . instead , apple ’s charges asi is a symbolic fee to permitting it to profit from apple ’s own ip rights , for whom it pays a miniscule us tax to the irs .
each garnered ( or sustained ) power by polarizing their societies and mobilizing their electoral base . the pekos ’ political style was made possible by the modern news media , scrambling for audience share , and sensationalizing issues . starkly antagonistic pronouncements and positions have a tendency to gain the most exposure . this gives confrontational politicians a powerful advantage , producing the electoral polarization on which the pekos had the fed . no doubt , such a political strategy is effective .
that suggestion might be amusing from a child , but there is nothing amusing when governments apply it , as they increasingly do , to complicated policies that involve science and technology . britons had their say over the summer , for example , on whether they want gene-spliced or genetically modified ( gm ) , the products in their fields , and the food . to gauge public opinion ahead of this year ’s decisions scheduled on whether to permit gm crops , a british government-sponsored ( at great expense ) are conducting a series of public debate around the country . local governments and other organizations have held hundreds of supplemental public meetings . the leadership of the british debates organization , professor malcolm input , has called them a “ singular experiment to figure out what ordinary people really think once they have heard any arguments . ”
in fact , the kremlin is funding many of these parties . lenin once said that the capitalists will sell the ropes with which they are hanging . today , european governments appear willing to allow putin to buy votes with which he destroys the eu . there are other kremlin supporters as well , including corporate leaders eager to return to business as usual with russia , and the academic apologists of the soviet union , who , 25 years after it ’s meltdown , see a chance for vindication . and , with public-opinion polls revealing that an important minority of europeans is falling under putin ’s rhetoric , his strategy of dividing the eu and nato appears to be making a real headway .
in germany alone , construction projects claim an average of more than 75 hectares annually . improper agricultural practices are also to blame : liberal uses of synthetic fertilizers ; for example , decimates organisms inhabiting the ground , transforming its structures . it takes millennia for more fertile topsoil to form ; in many places , cloudburst is now all it takes to wash away . at the same time , worldwide demand for food , fodder , and biomass on fuels is rising , in turn driving up land values – a failure that has accrued to international investors ’ attention . according to the world bank , an estimated 10-30 % of arable land worldwide is water-scarce , with millions of smallholders , pastoralists , and indigenous peoples affected by large-scale investment .
convinced that us history would judge a us president by his own success in containing the iranian threat , broder also assumes that a war with iran would re-energize the american economy . that is an odd idea , given that today ’s two continuing wars have only compounded america ’s economy ’s weaknesses . america ’s war against iran is credible only as an answer for an blatant and imminent iranian challenge to vital american interests , such as major terror attacks , an invasion of an us ally in the gulf , or the corrupting presence of middle eastern oil to the west . the iranian regime is far too astute to cross any of these red lines . iran , like north korea , will still be able to test obama ’s capacity to build international alliances that aim to place pressure on its defiant states .
the imf ’s economic-management framework still does not provide for countercyclical fiscal policies , because the imf remains ambivalent about the conventional prescription of stimulating the economy into a downturn . in brazil and elsewhere , the imf ’s distorted accounting frameworks – what it does and count as expenditures – continues to impede the investment required to shore up public-sector companies , and lay the major roadblock in the path of land reform . for example , when a government borrows to buy land , it is treated like debt , but a offsetting transaction when it sells the land through mortgages effectively goes unrecognized . while germany ’s president does not obviously intervene on the country ’s day-to-day management , his vote wo n’t be influential . it is here that germany should take pause and look on a record .
washington , dc – donald trump has officially been inaugurated as america ’s us president , but questions about russia ’s election interference will not go away . yet one key question often seems to have faded into the fray : why has russian president vladimir putin managed to do so ? obviously , it is not hard to guess why putin favored trump ’s preferred opponent , former secretary of state hillary clinton . nonetheless , there is a difference between hoping for an outcome , and taking great lengths to incurring great risks , in order to help bring that about . in our view , america ’s intelligence agencies , ’ conclusion that by aiding trump , have been advancing their “ longstanding desire to undermine ” the us-led liberal democratic order ” is not entirely conclusive .
furthermore , the country is projected to grow at an anemic 8-8.5 % rate within the next fiscal year . no budget change could generate so much , a cost-free acceleration in growth . it is fair to say that the incoming government department statistics have stole the thunder from this year ’s budget . nonetheless , finance minister mark jaitley ’s budget has succeeds on several fronts , not least in its alignment with vision and implementation . specifically , it advances the government ’s vision of a pro-growth agenda , one that enhances ease of doing business in india , while targeting better delivery mechanisms for welfare regimes .
but it has also followed a conciliatory foreign policy toward britain and america , devoting considerable resources to make itself attractive overseas . following the failure of its imperialist east asian co-prosperity scheme of the 1930s ( with a soft-power component of anti-european propaganda ) and its defeat in world war ii , japan turned to a strategy that minimized military power and reliance on a strategic alliance with the us . japan ’s single-minded focus on economic growth reached its goal , but the country developed a only modest level of military and soft power . in its first decades in power , communist china built its military strength and simultaneously took advantage of the soft power of maoist revolutionary doctrine and third world solidarity to cultivate its allies abroad . but , after the depletion of the 1970 ’s maoist strategy , chinese leaders switched for market mechanisms to foster economic development .
xi ’s anti-corruption campaign has gone as far as to take down a retired member of the politburo standing committee , china ’s ’s ’s most powerful body . likewise , with carbon-dioxide emissions having fallen dramatically from their start in earlier this year , the authorities seem well on track to hit the carbon-intensity goal that they established in 2010 . regulatory reform is already beginning to ease shadow-banking risk , and even some ghost towns are being animated by market forces . at the upcoming fifth plenum , china ’s ’s leaders must build on such progress , agree to retain the reform momentum . to succeed , the government must , as xi puts it , “ gnaw even rough bones ” that are , overstepping the vested interests that resist change .
and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in what is now an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
in keeping with the spirit of time , governments introduce entrepreneurial criteria to measure of efficiency – and the “ success , ” more generally – of public services . that means , first and foremost , setting a goal of performance targets . thus , the ministers proclaim that street criminals will have halved by next spring , or that the share of each generation will rise to 50 % in just five years . still , waiting lists for hospital beds is about to be trimmed by one-third in just two years . that method of governance makes the appearance that , at long last , the us can hold policymakers accountable by setting whether or not targets were reached .
peru ’s president alejandro toledo coined a new extreme sport , the “ soccer game ” in which he was a sole player . rather than kicking the ball to victory , he aims to force out his opponent scores . this helps to explain why , with over half of his term left , the man who ran popular movements to unseat former president alberto fujimori holds mere 7 % of his popularity rating today – any peruvian leader since the 1980 ’s , when democracy was restored . toledo assumed the presidency planning to dismantle the outstanding corruption that reigned fujimori ’s administrations and to end the reign of his crooked chief of intelligence , vladimiro montesinos . toledo claimed that he would just send all dishonest officials to jail – words that captured the imagination of peruvians , wanting to see criminal politicians brought to justice .
a mistake in a presidential debate can turn the tide of public opinion overnight , as occurred with president gerald ford during his debate to jimmy carter in 1976 . conversely , ronald reagan ’s performance in his 1980 ’s is often credited with his victory . another event that could turn the tables into the tables is the october surprise , linked to terrorism , which could shift the agenda from the financial crisis back to security , republican presidential follow a stronger following suit . well before the election in 2004 , osama bin laden released a video tape that might have helped president bush beat us senator john kerry . from bin laden ’s perspective , bush ’s policies were more useful for his effort to recruit supporters than kerry may have been .
but i see a practical turn in all of this that no one has so far broached . would n’t lugovoi a ’s entrance to politics bring about an ideal solution to the found heir to putin ? that squaring , after all , threatens to divide a nation-state elite . so why not pick a man like lugovoi , who really represents what an elite stands for ? let us be compared to the two potential presidential candidates , putin in 1999 and lugovoi in 2007 .
their mythical tribe was the great of some mythical past to try to recreate it ? in fact , such thinking poses a grave threat to the world ’s most vulnerable people . the un sustainable development goal of eliminating extreme poverty worldwide by 2030 depends entirely on sustained economic growth , through trade , technological innovation , and international cooperation . erecting trade barriers , engaging in digital mercantilism , and generally undermining the liberal world order , will severely harm the extreme poor in africa and other underdeveloped regions , while doing nothing to help land-owning miners in the west virginia . the powerful will always govern , but the weak will carry the burden of a brand of nostalgic protectionism that erodes globalization ’s strengths .
some will argue that the state – and by extension – of the communist party of china ( cpc ) – must retain a prominent role , in order to uphold the kind of social stability that is necessary for sustain economic development . others argue that encourages the kind of innovation that is necessary for high-income status will require that the state be no more like a market participant , and , more like a referee , regulator , and the arbiter of economic and social priorities , among the government . without question , nation-states have been integral to china ’s development not only through investment in areas like infrastructure and technology ; they also serve as a backstop , as nascent markets and private-sector institutions have developed . sovereign engagement is also necessary to help manage inequality , and to ensure that growth patterns are inclusive , whereby markets on their own can not be counted upon to do so . moreover , the chinese state has resolved coordination problems that are not easily or efficiently handled by decentralized markets , particularly in the developing world , where market institutions and bureaucracy can be at different stages of development .
but economic urgency does not translate into more gradual or non-existent policy responses . egypt ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s fiscal deficit , for example , will exceed 11 % of gdp this year . but the country ’s ’s ’s ’s leaders were stalling toward the background of a much-needed international monetary fund borrowing . the government ’s much-anticipated last year cut of fuel subsidies has not been followed by incremental reforms , and the demands of a tax hike came soon after president mohamed morsi ’s announcement . almost all of egypt ’s political stakeholders , like those in the other arab countries in transition , recognize the need for economic reform .
and yet , that could very well appear to be happening , too . our unicef , a survey of 126 developing countries , has found that among almost one-half of reductions in public expenditures , common adjustment measures involve public-sector wage cuts or caps , the withdrawal of food subsidies , and targeting and rationalization of already under-social-protection systems . such adjustments are often taken without careful examination of their social implications . how many poor children will suffer , or die , from lack of food and healthcare ? how many children will miss out on education , because teachers are absent because of low wages , or simply because poor children must work to supplement their own family ’s income ?
indeed , germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s future could play by two other ways . the world has a large stake in which scenario prevails . the first scenario looks bleak : germany fails to integrate refugee either socially and economically , political discontent surges , and newcomers become increasingly frustrated with their plight . any move that they have taken to vent that frustration embolden right-wing populists , and could lead to violence on both sides . indeed , were it to strike a terrorist attack on the us , particularly one that could , to some extent , join refugees , a nationalist-populist reaction becomes powerful , potentially weakening a very fabric in german society .
an army ’s decision , by contrast , to allow mubarak loyalists , some riding camels or horse horses , to charge in cairo ’s ’s ’s ’s tahrir square , and to attack thousands of anti-government protesters has been the classic “ military ” as the government ” move . at that point , a democratic transition will most likely require the military to play a more active role in protecting the protesters . what is clear is that a “ “ military ” interest as an institution ” depends on an army ’s capacity to establish much greater separation from the regime . likewise , successful political transitions help if more and more citizens come to feel that they are “ “ “ “ own ” ” by protest as well as the resulting transition . following this example , bringing the demand for mubarak ’s immediate resignation from cairo ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s tahrir square rather than from the obama administration is a positive evolution .
at the same time , obviously , they will work in close coordination with ugandan forces . but does uganda ’s operation , following so close at the intervention in libya , herald a police role for the american people whenever the un or the icc , which lacking nato police force , relied on their members , and intermingling – judges that are needed ? given america ’s unwillingness to join the icc ( or to bring its own torturers to justice in the us courts ) , such a role would be vulnerable to international and domestic political attack as well . so far , the extent of american cooperation with the icc has surpassed even the constructive us role proposed by the obama administration . evidently , american policymakers remain increasingly receptive to the potential of international criminal justice to undergird the terms of a new form of global engagement .
so why are n’t americans feeling even more alarms about their country ’s rising income inequality ? part of the reason not that they do n’t is that most americans fail to recognize what works . one poll found that 19 % of americans think that their incomes place them at the top 1 % of the income distribution – and that 20 % more hope for the top 1 % someday come from it . a deep part of american ideology and culture is a constellation of beliefs and attitudes : belief that the future is brighter than the current one ; that what you accomplish with your own hands ; that individuals should rely on themselves , not the state ; that people may cross the oceans and mountains to make for themselves a better life ; and that those who succeed , not through luck , corruption but through the quest for industry . these are not beliefs conducive to social democracy , but rather .
stockholm – our generation has a unique chance , but we are better able to bear . if we set our mind , we could be among the first in human history to leave our children nothing at all : zero greenhouse-gas emissions , no amount of poverty , and no loss of biodiversity . that is the course world ’s leaders set when they met at the un in new york on september 25 to adopt the goals of sustainable development ( sdgs ) . the 17 goals range from ending poverty and improving health in order to protecting the planet ’s ’s planet biosphere , and providing energy for all . they have emerged from their largest summit in the un ’s history , a “ rio +20 ” conference in 2012 , to be followed by their largest consultations the un has ever carried out .
thus , the noisiest is often rewarded with a megaphone while less polarizing , less-privileged voices seem to be drowned out , despite the fact that he or she provides a shrewd , nuanced perspectives that can genuinely enrich public debate . when an algorithm does not do the work of silencing fewer privileged voices , online “ trolls ” often step by , directs the hateful and ominous speech at the whomever they picked up . while women and minorities are particularly prone to online harassment , anyone can be targeted . the german blogger , richard gutjahr , has become the object of conspiracy theories and the goal of intense harassment following two terrorist attacks in two weeks of each other . the victims of online harassment often react with self-censorship , and a lot , with their sense of safety and even self-value , has been eroded , removing oneself from social media completely .
at the same time , africans have barely paid a single share in america 's policies . africans do n't vote ; not buy american products ; nor do they put them at risk of violence . they are simply poor , starving and disease-ridden , and disease-ridden . few wealthy countries are doing better than america 's . i unified america not because it is unique in its own neglect , but because it is unique in its capacity to lead .
hence , as he put it in 1932 , one can not escape from the prolonged – and perhaps interminable – depression , except through direct state intervention to promote and subsidize new investment ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” what the obama administration rightly does . on what has caused that crash , the debate more often than not . krugman harks up to the point that he attributes a crash to the “ irrationality ” that , as cochrane points out , is no theory . this is because krugman refuses to take seriously keynes ’s critical distinction between risk and uncertainty . in my opinion , keynes aimed to emphasize the “ extreme precariousness ” of the basis of knowledge on which our estimates of prospective yield have to make .
cape town – nowadays , people are all too often forced to choose between doing what is morally right and doing what benefits economically . indeed , sometimes their choices seem to be mutually exclusive , making a road decision on which to take an unprecedented level of challenge . at times of moral rectitude and economics heals , however , merge , presenting a opportunity that must not be missed . that is the case in point , from the perspective of that archbishop and a former finance minister with the world ’s response to climate change . the moral imperative is incontrovertible , because the effects of climate change – which include extreme weather , changing temperature and rising sea levels – are felt most keenly by the global poor , who also benefited the least from the economic activity they cause .
and , on that day , lamented that his absence seemed like a part of a given , somehow making us forget that it was no longer of us . abiding in every us case was that youth spent all of us : a youth spent with a journey act , like gautier ’s fracasse captain ; a father , a character out of modiano , who , among bouts of drinking , pawned the gifts given to him by his abandoned son . likewise , then came the preposterous wolf and cheekbones hewn hewn with giacometti , catcher in rye sentiment , and melancholy so intensely hopeless that it seems to condemn it to live on the margins of any form that seems to condemn it to live . he had been the consummate performer in the french scene , a chameleon beamed along satellite tv , dripping with a fake swelitz , and the performer who , such as the novelist , confessed as a trip . hallyday was the baby of one who observed that the american gis in paris , and that invented for itself an american ascendance .
it was , of course , subject to ups and downs , but it was not subject to financial crises of the type that we see regularly today . moreover , post-wwii capitalism has maintained full employment , with unemployment often hovering around 2 % in europe , north america , and japan . job insecurity back then has largely been missed , and mass poverty has virtually disappeared . the keys to this period of rising and happiness have been to produce a robust system of social welfare and principally keynesian domestic and overseas economic policies throughout the world ’s great states . above all , every advanced economy has been pursuing policies designed to provide high wages , thereby guaranteeing high consumption – and therefore rapid – growth .
the us is interested and associated , but not absorbed . that seems to reflect the stance , expressed by cameron and former uk chancellor of the exchequer , george osborne , that helped set the stage for brexit . in response to the euro crisis , they argued , the need for greater fiscal integration would be possible , but without the uk ; with no british financial participation in future european rescue operations would be realized . in the long run , solidarity ( at least the type that costs money ) stopped in the english channel . yet , much like de gaulle ’s declaration and may ’s campaign slogan , churchill ’s statements employed the language of political ambiguities .
what the west can do is to apply pressure on iran – as well as on other governments in the future – to reassure and account for the safety of the protesters . natan sharansky has said that this tactic , western tracing and demanding accountability for handling individual internal dissenters – has helped fracture the soviet union . in this crisis , america ’s president should form a united front with human-rights groups that can advise it precisely on how to follow , sustain , and support those iranians who are , or may yet be apprehended , or worse . barack obama says that he places america “ stands with ” those who support a free assembly . that will welcome news to people living under the dictatorial regimes installed and propped up by american people , as well as opposition leaders and journalists languish at us-supported prisons in those countries for having engaged in only such protests .
russia ’s membership in the world trade organization has the potential to strengthen the rule of law , fight corruption , and give russia a stake in building a better relationship with the outside world . closer ties between russia and the european union make some sense for similar reasons . there should also be some understanding for what the russian people and the russians have walked through each other over the last two decades . losing one country and a special place in the world is the collateral damage that could lead to the emergence of extreme , potentially violent nationalism . as a major power , russia should be treated as a major power , one that implies consultations on major global issues .
but a consensus has emerged in brazil that the left party can neither win nor keep silent with the hard-left fantasy , and that lula ’s presidency has not challenged that view . the consensus may have reflected the successes of lula ’s predecessor , fernando henrique cardoso , the relative achievement of privatization and liberal market economies worldwide , with brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s middle class . whatever the case , for the brazilian left ’s key leaders , including rousseff , has become part of the solution rather than a fundamental one . at the same time , investors are taking on all types of risks , including some of them . the largest are not always the law on which the world bank and development agencies have focused ; rather , they are the business risks of a failing or polity that implodes .
my reduced cost will , of course , be someone else ’s reduced revenue , and not just apple ’s . one big loser for this world would be the freight deal ( along with junkyards , logistics companies , and centralized recycling operations ) . when things can be made , broken-worn , and recycled closer to home , the need for transportation diminishes dramatically . recycled materials may not bring in centralized processing centers , and then pass to factories . products will not need to be made in those factories , and then shipped back to customers or to inventory centers .
london – in the 1960s , the green revolution – which included high-yielding crop varieties , expanded irrigation infrastructure , and the distribution of modern fertilizers and pesticides to developing-country farmers – bolstered agricultural production worldwide . yet chronic hunger remains pervasive , especially in the developing world , suffering most from crop shortages and food-price volatility . by 2050 , the global human population is projected to surpass nine billion , according to the who , ten years . achieving food security means ensuring that all people have consistent , affordable access to proper nutrients , despite land and water constraints , climate change , and the growing prevalence of resource-intensive western-style diets that accompany rising incomes . surmounting these challenges will not be easy , but they will not be easy .
indeed , for many years , erdoğan ’s domestic critics of erdoğan ’s government have been espousing what they describe as the regime ’s “ putinization . ” turkey , not the european union , currently makes its presence felt globally . nevertheless , the course of history may change fast enough . in reality , turkey needs europe as much as europe needs turkey . europe is for turkey “ the principle of moderation ” and a enticement to remain democratic .
on the other hand , experience suggests that governments frequently struggle to align public spending with underlying or mounting problems , such as public-health threats until they approach the crisis . more people died from cancer in america last year than at any time in the fight . indeed , last year , ’s 580,000 cervical cancer deaths exceed roughly 430,000 combat deaths , on average , during world war i , japan , the korean war , the vietnam war , and the gulf war . yet government spending on cancer averages about $ 4 billion a year , on average . that is just above 0.5 % of the annual us military budget , amounting to roughly $ 718 billion .
a journalist visit by saudi arabia recently asked me why the five out of five students who interviewed at the university of saud university still believed that al qaida chinese was not responsible for these attacks on the world trade organization and the pentagon in america last year ? dealing with that question has become increasingly frustrating to me , because i ran out of plausible explanations . i used to believe that the denial of the saudi complicity of that attacks reflected our hardship with what has happened on that dark day . my hope was that we would have the courage to overcome our perceived humiliations and start looking deep into the us national psyche to ask the great question , “ why did 15 of our young men engage america in so brutal a form ? ” so far , we are nowhere closer to nothing than in the aftermath of a us strike to answer that question , because no nerve can be found .
moreover , income inequality has endured , with the global phenomenon of increasing wealth concentration at the very top , in many arab countries . top incomes in these countries have largely resulted from political patronage rather than innovation and harsh work . whereas tunisia has been an extreme case for regime furthering the economic interests of insiders , the pattern has been widespread . that is why a knee-jerk , simplistic “ washington consensus ” prescription of more liberalization and privatization , is inappropriate for the arab world in 2012 . there is an obvious political imperative for a growth strategy within which inclusion is centerpiece rather than an afterthought .
but that , too , is no longer the case , as it is today . indeed , trump ’s recent actions are not just about trade ; they are about america ’s departure from the pax americana itself . yet few countries are more closely related to the post-war order than germany , which , like japan , owes its post-1945 economic resurgence to a rules-based trade system . germany ’s ’s ’s economy relies heavily on exports , meaning it acutely vulnerable to trade barriers , and punitive tariffs imposed by its major trade partners . trump ’s protectionist policies thus challenge the entire german economic model , which has really existed since the 1950s .
during macron ’s first five-year period , therefore , he should focus on boosting france ’s ’s gdp growth to an average of at least 2 % per year , reducing the unemployment rate to below 6 % . the easiest way to achieve both goals would be to focus on where france is underperforming relative to other eu countries . part of the unemployment challenge is tied to the hidden cost . france has some of the highest labor costs for the eu ’s hourly workers , and a natural outcome is tepid hiring . with inequality also mounting , many in the french are rightly angry that labor is being taxed far beyond capital gains .
in early december , putin signed a 2015 federal budget that foresaw 2 % annual gdp growth and a budget deficit of amounting to 0.5 % of gdp . but the collapse in oil prices , combined with the harsh economic sanctions that america and europe imposed by the end of the month , meant that his government was predicting a 4 % decline in gdp and a budget deficit of 3.5 % of gdp , and that upon budget cuts were worthwhile 1 % of gdp . based on these figures , it is estimated that by the end of this year , russia will actually spend 70 % of the reserve-currency fund accrued over the past decade , or so , when oil prices were soaring . as long as low oil prices persist , and western economic sanctions remain under way , russia will run out of cash by the end of 2016 . nonetheless , putin ’s approval ratings remain at about 80 % .
but , of course , libra is sold as much as it is . as one facebook executive puts it , “ we want to send money at as easily as it sends the text message . ” considering that libra will adopt a form of private money connected to a basket of stable emerging-market currencies , how would that work in practice ? if argentina ’s people could switch from currency to a basket of stable currencies , with a unified connection of their smartphones , would n’t they then pour into that safe asset at the first hint of domestically-based trouble ? a standard “ efficient market ” analysis does n’t help us answer that question , because in perfect markets , such flows would be self-correcting .
the recent rise of the euro also helped hold down european long-term interest rates — a key determinant of economic activity — as inflationary expectations deteriorated somewhat within the euro-zone countries . throughout april , the rise of the us inflationary expectations , and of the euro ’s appreciation , occurred more or less qe . yields on ten-year german ten-year german bond yields , which may have been forecast to continue at a higher rate , owing to the deterioration in inflationary expectations during this period , have barely moved forward . this is a large plus for sustaining economic recovery , but this is an altogether impossible task . should bush , bernanke , or new us treasury secretary , henry paulson , cause investors to lose faith in american financial assets at some point in time , a rising euro will help shield european interest rates from the consequences .
this political entity is the exact counterpart of the political world to the well-known physical phenomenon of splintering or fissuring . when stressed , the big surface bifurcates in the great lakes region but then disintegration continues to this day in smaller , smaller fragments . of the six larger eu member states , only france had a truly well-defined centralized political system . italy and germany were nineteenth-century amalgamations of some colorful variety of small and medium-size political units . the united kingdom looks older and more stable ; today , scotland is controlled by a political party that wants to abolish the union ’s 1707 act , with the future to be determined by the scottish referendum in 2014 .
we tend to believe in banknotes , because we collectively decide that we trust the government when it says that $ 100 , rather than ten or 50 dollars . money , therefore , is about trust , without which no company can function . just as eyeing our leaders ’ orders to fight and die because to put their judgment , we entrust our careers and our money with those who run citigroup and goldman sachs and other such banks , because we believe that their leaders are fair to their employees and clients , and honorable in their business practices . we do n’t grow up wishing to work for argentina and egypt . once that trust breaks down , bad things happen to be done .
ultimately , of course , the soviet union ’s ossified structure could not have been saved ; but , thanks in large part to gorbachev ’s embrace of fundamental decency , the ussr ’s demise made in 1991 rather peaceful poland . it created an environment in which demands for radical change led to compromise rather than rage , in sharp contrast to , say , the violent breakup of yugoslavia . like francis and sanders , gorbachev has been an unlikely reformer . despite rising powers with kgb support , he has failed to surrender his thinking processes to that machine , in the ways that president vladimir putin clearly does . likewise , far from making a fitting on the mold of a democratic machine , sanders is working to propel the party back “ to the social-democratic left , ” where it belongs .
america 's ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s agricultural subsidies do just that . those across the developing world who assume that a history of bargaining in bad faith has a powerful case in point . that leaves developing countries facing a hard choice : will they be better off accepting the " crumbs " on offer ? whatever the economics , taking this route might be tougher today than ever before : with so many developing countries becoming vibrant democracies , electorates might punish governments that accept what is widely viewed as yet another unfair trade deal . unsurprisingly , wealthy countries ’ negotiators are hurling around big numbers to describe the gains from an imperfect accord .
princeton – recently , physicists at the great hadron collider ( lhc ) focused on the world ’s most powerful particle accelerator , located near geneva at the european convention on nuclear research ( cern ) ( cern ) , reported that the celebrated discovery in the 2012 paper of the higgs boson was actually a higgs boson . today , there is the standard paradigm of particle physics , with the exception of one crucial : the black holes . four years ago , the doomsayers forecast that lhc would produce the microscopic black holes that would swallow the earth in a matter of months . the latter-day nostradamadamadamuses have provoked widespread fear , not to mention lawsuits focused on high-energy particle physics experiments . obviously , these prophets have been neither the first nor the last .
monetary policy had long played an increasingly important role in brazilian politics . during the country ’s democratization process of the 1980 ’s and 1990s , successive governments struggled to tame the hyperinflation that reached 2,477 % in 1993 . introducing the “ real ” plan , ” ” ” launched in may 1994 , succeeded in suppressing annual price growth to the “ acceptable ” level of 22 % by the year that year . riding on a plan ’s achievement , its architect , fernando henrique cardoso , the former minister of economics , was twice the election president ( in 1994 and 1998 ) , underscoring voter anxiety over price stability . today , as the developed countries ’ central bankers fret about the threat of deflation , brazilian policymakers are once again pressed to react to widespread fears of slowing growth and a return to high inflation .
not surprisingly , the atmosphere at this year ’s world economic forum was grim . those who think that globalization , technology , and market economies will solve the global ’s problems seem subdued . the most chastened of all were central bankers . against the background of the sub-prime crisis , disasters at many financial institutions , and weakening the stock market , those “ masters of the universe ” seemed less omniscient than they did a short time ago . and it was not only the top bankers in davos doghouse that year , but their regulators – central bankers as well .
now , given europe ’s profound sovereign-debt crisis , government defaults are threatening to take down the big banks . the european central bank has made massive emergency loans to banks , which they are using to purchase an even bigger volume of government debt . that holds down the interest rate on us debt in the short run , but creates even bigger potential losses when possible default happens . the structure of banks and politics is deep in all the advanced economies , and we have become much more deeply embedded . diamond has discovered , ultimately , that politicians of politicians in the united kingdom are doing just that .
despite low average growth rates , incomes in the top quintile of the population grew at an average annual rate of over 6 % in the 2000 ’s , thanks largely to cost-effective welfare policies . provided that it continues to pursue a comprehensive poverty-reduction strategy , including by improving health-care access , financial services , and education spending , brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s overall productivity should improve in the years ahead . even so , brazil has a long track record . for starters , anemic investment in traditional infrastructure since the 1980 ’s has been turning into an increasingly heavy tfp drag , contributing to waste and inefficiencies in current production systems . this could address fine-tuning the division of labor in infrastructure investment and management between the public and private sector with the crowding goal in the latter .
during the years that followed the burst of extreme oil shocks until the early 1980s , almost two-thirds of poor countries recorded their inflation rates above 10 % . according to the most recent figures running through july or august for most countries , there are only ” ” 14 cases of high inflation ( the red line in the figure ) . venezuela ( which did not publish official inflation statistics earlier this year ) and argentina ( which did not release reliable inflation data for a couple of years ) figure prominently in that group . iran , russia , syria , ukraine , and a handful of african countries comprise the rest . indeed , the share of countries that are recording outright consumer-price deflation ( the green line ) is higher in 2015 than it was when countries experiencing double-digit annual inflation ( 7 % of gdp ) .
for the most part , the quick fixes that they imposed thus far have not been enormously successful . when it comes to higher education , there is of course an alternative . in a lack of sufficient resources , one can simply allow universities to deteriorate further . on the european continent , this has happened since the 1970s . the overcrowded classes in often inadequately physical surroundings without needed equipment have led to live times in study , deterioration of quality , and much adversity among students and young professors .
only war ’s carnage , sad to say , can seal this diplomatic coup . the need for the kosovars to get liberated milosevic ’s grip has become so manifest for a whole decade . two million kosovars have suffered from milosevic ’s rule in every aspect of life , from basic security to education . for years , they have been attempting to voice their grievances through peaceful means . as a political activist in the final days of yugoslavia , i attempted to build on the philosophy of nonviolence , leading demonstrations , and other forms of peaceful forms of dissent .
the phenomenon took many forms , including the muslim brotherhood , which it founded in 1928 . simultaneously , efforts at nation-building along secular lines mirrored egyptian president gamal abdel nasser ’s pan-arabism and the syrian ba’ath party ( bjp ) , with the results of the united arab republic , the union between egypt and syria , which lasted from 1958 to 1961 . a half-century later , the arab world ’s simultaneous revolts were the result of neither political tendencies , instead reflecting a widespread popular rejection of the dysfunctional , and corrupt , authoritarian governments . yet , with syria immersed in a brutal civil war that claimed more than 130,000 lives already , libya is on the brink of collapse , and egypt is returning power to the military and proscribing the muslim brotherhood , tunisia has had its share of success . on january 27 , tunisia adopted its new constitution , outlining the path toward what will become the most secular and faith-free elections in whatever region ’s countries .
berlin – how we eat into the industrialized world is uniquely unhealthy , unjust , and unsustainable . far too much meat we consume is produced under questionable ecological , ethical , and societal conditions . and now the us industrial model of meat production is exporting to the global south , particularly india and china , where meat consumption is on the rise among those two of the ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ending emerging middle classes . worldwide , about 300 million tons of meat is generated annually , with the un food and agricultural organization estimating that the annual total is expected to rise to 455 million per year by 2050 , if demand continues to grow at its current pace . that is how huge amounts of meat can be produced only on an industrial scale , along with high social , political , and ecological costs .
cambridge – for some time now , the four horsemen of us macroeconomic policymaking in the united states have been taxing , regulating , trade , and infrastructure . having studied the former in detail , i found that the tax cuts needed to be a positive contributor to rapid economic growth . although i considered the second area in less detail , the evidence suggests that regulation is , at best , little more than a minor contributor to growth . a third area is hugely important , which is one reason why today ’s trade tensions are so daunting . the fourth area exists only in rhetoric : an infrastructure program currently does not play a part of the underlying macroeconomic policy repertoire .
as gordon observes , a protracted economic-growth dividends related to urbanization has emerged , a trend that could continue for at least another decade in china . but a time comes when that tailwind subsides and chinese are beginning to converge on the advanced economies ’ so-called “ frontier . ” at that point , china will be facing the same kind of productivity challenges confronting america and others . chinese policymakers ’ new focus on innovation-led growth seems to recognize this risk . without robust innovations that sustaining productivity growth will become an uphill struggle .
but the plan was intended to deflate economic activity even further , and it failed to lay the proper foundation for calculating how much debt restructuring puerto rico would actually be needed . the sad fact is that the opportunity to right puerto rican fiscal vessel has n’t seized . on the contrary , the oversight board recently certified a new fiscal plan , and an arrangement with holders of bonds issued by the puerto rican interest fund corporation ( fdic ) , which could put the island in a debt straitjacket indefinitely . at $ 17.8 trillion , the shares of cofina bond ( backed by future sales-tax revenue ) accounts for more than a third of total debt under a new fiscal plan . and the cofina arrangement is itself part of an ever-larger debt-restructuring effort , building upon the unrealistic assessment of a commonwealth ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economic conditions .
ten years on , what effect has the principles on the displaced lives of people ? achievements are notable if not worse . we raised awareness of the plight of the displaced , brought about a change in government policies , raising billions of dollars in efforts to respond to their fundamental needs . this , in turn , has helped to save countless lives . humanitarian efforts continue to strengthen , including through the new swift financing mechanism , the united nations central emergency response fund .
wearing a beam that costs 200 times as much 200 times as one that does a better job of keeping time says something else , even while staffed by people who do not govern a relatively poor country . anderson , veblen ’s richest man in his era , was blunt in his moral judgments . “ man who dies wealthy , ” ” he is often quoted as saying , “ dies disgraced . ” we can adapt that judgment by a man or a woman who carries $ 30,000 watches , or purchased similar luxury goods like a $ 12,000 bag . basically , such a person does tell ; “ “ “ i am either extraordinarily ignorant or merely self-evident selfish . ”
he demonstrates that both the “ total ” and the average ” answers have paradoxical or counter-intuitive implications . but then , so does any other response that was suggested by parfit revived a problem and by other philosophers beginning to offer their own solutions . when reasons and humans could have easily gotten three separate books on what matters really is : the first two volumes published in 2011 , whereas the third , in print if pardied , had just emerged . it is in this monumental work that totaling approximately 1,900 pages , parfit calls the idea – nearly universally assumed by economists and many philosophers from david cheerfully onward – that the role of reason tells us how to get what to do but not to tell us what to wish . by contrast , parfit argued , desires can be irrational .
by acknowledging mental-health and wellness issues at work , we can make the difference in our home , our schools , and communities as much as possible . seeking mental-health care should be just as routine and unremarkable as seeking treatment for acute blood pressure , cancer , or heart conditions . beyond that , we must also reduce mental-health inequity , an frequently ignored issue . it is often a problem in lower-income communities where populations are at greater risk of pathology and are often facing the highest barriers to getting care , partly owing to the scarcity of highly specialized resources available in wealthier spaces . there are some innovative approaches to tackling this problem , such as the zimbabwe ’s ’s ’s friendship bench , and i look forward to learning more about this project from one of its peers in davos .
experts argue that the probability of a terrorist attack as a result of dubai ’s takeover would be small . should the damage inflicted by a terrorist attack turn out to be small , too . yet the damage inflicted by an attack might be superfluous , for us ports believed to be one of the few supplies of terrorists might smuggle nuclear weapons in america . because of this , americans can not afford to take even a minutest of their chances with their us ports , the effects of error that a failure would be too tainted to assure them . the american public understands this even though their president does n’t .
but the four political developments that have modified the international security agenda are likely to turn chicago into an all-important summit on its own right . first , revolutions in the arab world , as well as nato ’s military intervention in libya , have reshifted the alliance ’s focus from the middle east and north africa . second , the international financial crisis will have an enormous impact on nato members ’ defense budgets . third , in a speech last june , outgoing american defense secretary robert gates revived the transatlantic burden of burden sharing and solidarity within the alliance . finally , the first nato summit , which was scheduled to take place in the united states in may 13 years , is occurring not only in an election year , but also in us president barack obama ’s hometown .
yet smallholders can not ignore when it comes to a climate-change solution : the world ’s ’s ’s ’s half-billion smallholders account for 60 % of global agriculture ’s producing and providing up to 80 % of all food supplies in the developing world . collectively , they manage vast areas of our planet , including about 80 % of farmland in sub-saharan africa and asia . can we really count on those farmers , many of them desperately poor , to assume a leadership role in tackling the twin challenges of food security and environmental sustainability ? can they produce more food , while protecting the natural environment ? we believe that the answer to both questions is a resounding yes .
one such reform would be to expand access to foreign investors . over the past decade , foreigners have been barred from making investments in more than 40 industries designated “ national security critical ” by the us government . this ban , while beneficial for industrial insiders , has reduced russia ’s ’s access to financial markets , and , more controversially , to new technologies that follow the flow of financial flows . the financial sanctions that followed russia ’s forced “ reunification ” in 2014 intensified russia ’s isolation further , as have the country ’s own movements to retaliate : a series of sweeping trade restrictions , including outright blast sanctions on food imports from the us and the united kingdom . lifting such constraints would not only give the economy an immediate boost , but also boost long-run gdp growth .
the relationship between the cee countries and the uk has always been rather fraying . in the 1990s , the uk made an early proponent of eu membership for the cee countries at a time when leaders in france and germany were still very hesitant about eu enlargement . but uk support has had one catching up : britain ’s leaders , the reluctant ones to embrace the eu ’s long-proclaimed goal of an ever-closer union , which implies political unification and a shared national and federal sovereignty , have made no secret of their desire to use the widening eu ’s membership in order to avoid deepening european integration . during negotiations with eu leaders ahead , british prime minister david cameron obtained an opt-out clause when it comes to an eu decision to move toward ever-closer union . should it prevail in a referendum and persuade voters to remain , it would send a perilous signal to illiberal politicians across eastern europe .
and the future workers of the future will require training in ethics , helping them navigate a world in which the value of a human being could no longer be taken for granted . educators of preparing students for that future generations must start now . entrepreneurial majors should study the lessons of economic and political history in order to avoid becoming blind determinists . economists will have to learn from an engineering student , because it will be engineers building a future labor force . and law students should draw on the crossroads of large data and human rights in order to gain the insight needed to defend people from the forces that may seek to turn individuals to disposable parts .
the top-down hierarchy is both autocratic and arbitrary ; a lower level has little collaborative inputs and no prerogative of appeals . severe breaches can result , either from reprimands or from dismissals . in effect , the system has become mostly self-regulating . in my experience , 99 % of all censorship occur with writers and manufacturers themselves . sporadic complaints and warnings from above allow them to develop an intuitive sense of limits on acceptable content , thereby creating displays of freedom that are free from offending material from the start .
tokyo – japanese prime minister shinzo abe ’s decision to extend a diet ’s current session for 95 days was due to september 27 making for the longest continuous session in japan ’s parliament as the country ’s postwar history . the reason is obvious : abe is determined to pass a set of homeland security bills that enabled a reinterpretation of japan ’s ’s own constitution that will persuade the country to play a larger role not only in enhancing its own security , but also in advancing world peace . abe ’s actions in the diet come on the heels of his performance at the recent g7 summit in germany , in which he broke with japan ’s japan tradition . for the preceding 39 years , japanese representatives in the g-7 made a spotlight on economic debates at such meetings , content to remain largely silent as a industrialized world ’s fellow leaders surveyed the planet ’s political hot spots , and recommended action , or more often , inaction . but the summit showed that japan no longer intends to stand on the diplomatic sidelines .
in february 1996 , kohl urged that nato put enlargement on hold until after the may russian and american presidential elections had passed . he then instructed nato ministers not to discuss the matter publicly , suggesting that nato talks should be left alone in taking nato machinery . to underline that , chancellor 's first foreign-policy activity after his return from his holiday was a visitor in early july to the ailing boris yeltsin era with which kohl had friendly relations . this visit yielded another appeal not to rush nato enlargement into the eu . in germany 's parliament earlier this month , chancellor of the exchequer announced that yeltsin will " renew the necessary dialogue and address specific issues more urgently , such as nato 's eastward expansion … . and i have been able to reach an agreement by president clinton , president chirac , and major prime minister that the us is now admitting firmly on how to deal with the important nato-nato enlargement issue in some framework , lest moscow feel that moscow is creating a acfiat . "
only this , fogel believes , can explain recent trends in longevity , body size , vital organs ’ durability , and a chronic disease . at the same time , such changes are triggering changes in the human cognition . the consequence is a litany of “ post-utopian ” values that involve greater emphasis on individual liberty and personal responsibility . in such a world with no utopia , individual freedom belongs to the nation-state . but , as with any change of this magnitude , holdouts do now .
london – the gravity of the euro crisis has now dithered . the stakes could not be higher . governments and international financial institutions scrambled to get the resolution in exceedingly tight political and economic constraints . so far , many questions have been scrambled to design ; what would be done is at least as challenging . now , eurozone leaders must aim to preserve not just the single currency , but also the gains from european financial integration .
washington , dc – while much of the developed world is rightly worried about myriad privacy outrages in the hands of big tech and demanding – and securing – for individuals a “ alt-right ” to be forgotten , ” ” many worldwide are posing a profoundly different question : what is the right one to see ? following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , america might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
drug-related violence has consumed untold numbers of casualties in afghanistan , burma , colombia , america , and mexico . the swiss have shifted their government ’s attention to ’s ’s pragmatic eye . medical professionals have taken the lead in fending off the government – through the country ’s direct democracy mechanisms – to shift its focus from arresting and punishing drug users towards public-health policies that rely on the scientific evidence for what works . swiss have implemented methadone programs and to prevent the spread of hiv , they have created needle exchanges , including in the prisons , with the establishment of safe injections rooms on a massive scale . the swiss federal ministry of public health has also overseen an experiment in prescribing the heroin for people living with opiate dependence for significant periods .
washington , dc – the impact that groundbreaking technological advances like artificial intelligence will have on the functioning of the us economies and labor market has long been a hot topic . but jerry kaplan ’s recent book human need not apply : a guide to wealth and labor in an age of artificial intelligence has struck upon me the true magnitude of socioeconomic stakes . one relatively familiar example of the digital revolution ’s impact on the workings of markets is its ability to earn enormous returns in high-speed trading by being a micro second “ ahead ” of everyone else ’s . another is the capacity of price discrimination by the new electronic market makers like uber , which makes the convenience of every cent “ consumer surplus ” of the old “ microeconomic theory . ” soon , a new type of augmented uber could emerge , integrate car , bus , ships , airplane travel , and hotel rooms into a single super-app .
in a world of scarce resources , policymakers must prioritize their investments , including by differentiating the imperative from the latter from the desirable . toward this end , finding ways to identify and maximize complementarity is vitally important . some 2.1 billion people worldwide lack access to safe , readily available waterways at home , and more than double as many – a whopping 4.5 billion – lack safely managed sanitation , profoundly undermines health outcomes , and fueling river pollution . with an increasing share of the world ’s population , including many of the same people , feeling the effects of environmental degradation and climate change firsthand , finding solutions simultaneously that advance environmental protection , water provision , and health care could be no more important . global health and conservation professionals must work more closely to identify these solutions and persuade policymakers to pursue them .
it is an unwelcome development for software providers , whose business model relies on licensing and annual maintenance fees , rather than on electricity usage . indeed , large firms in nearly every field are vulnerable , as startups become better equipped , more competitive , and able – like larger firms – to reach customers and users everywhere . moreover , the disruptive technologies turn to value a shift among economic sectors , just as happened when cable tv overtook radio or , more recently , when online media acquired predominance over print publication . businesses across industries now need to invest in understanding the new technology to prepare opportunity or mount effective defenses quickly . indeed , ceos and other top executives need a technologists or at least a technology-savvy , and continually evaluating ways to influence the status quo , specifically , their for-profit pools .
by 2013 , the share had dropped to 13.5 % . though the developing world had an average of 1.7 billion more people than it was in 1991 , 209 million had been starving . over the last 22 years , the world has managed to feed almost two billion more people adequate , with no feat . over the next year , the world ’s 193 governments will come together to hammer out the new global targets that are needed to meet their target by 2030 . the task amounts to this generation ’s greatest opportunity to translate high-level aspirations into concrete goals .
fifteen people have been killed , and many more wounded , in what is remembered as the peterloo massacre . in view of the recent memory of the violent french revolution , the british elite grudgingly agreed on democratizing reforms . ultimately , the 1832 reform act abolished the rotten boroughs and stretched their franchise to the new middle class ( the working class and women would have to wait ) . at the same time , the united states went , despite the 1870 ’s - and 1880 ’s - industrialization period . the greed and corruption of that era were satirized in 1873 by mark twain and charles dudley warner in their book gilded age : a narrative of today .
but , thanks to farage , as well as faragism , which took over the governing conservative party – a act of economic self-harm that apparently is leading counter to the national interest – is portrayed as the apotheosis of british patriotism . narrow-minded nationalism is simply not a british malady : across the west , much of the public sees globalization as leaderless , lacking a humane face , and resembling an uncontrollable , train . moderate leaders everywhere must respond now , not only to economic discontent with the loss of the millions , but also to cultural pessimism and politicians ’ dismissal as merely a matter of ” giving the succor or something to the populist nationalism promoted by trump cheerfully leader stephen bannon and his ilk . what makes matters worse for britain still worse , though , is the string of gross flaws in political verdict during and after the 2016 referendum campaign . whereas the beat remain sidestepped an economic campaign , centered on fears of job losses from exiting with the eu , poland ’s proved a culture war by exaggerating fears of immigration and asserting that patriotic britons would take back control .
a survey of current laws and regulations found that many are conflicted and overlapping . ande proposed the creation of his new court by amending the constitution . he succeeded in stemming the strong popular support for tackling corruption . the new court is empowered to reconcile or revoke laws featuring conflicts and duplications . every firm and business association needs to decide the best strategies and tactics that will follow in their countries .
how , then , did ukraine achieve this kind of state of cynicism ? one year ago , everyone gathered in the streets of kyiv became aware of what we stood against : a corrupt government that sought to discipline lives and labor and lay in the removal of state assets , at its will . to the extent that formal legal rights existed , no court could be relied upon to enforce those rights once our rulers saw their interests as challenged . in the evicting that regime , we believed that this form of absolutism was coming to an end . instead , those who had benefited from regime = s corruptions insisted that their rights to the assets they had stealing were inviolate .
one community was provided with a continuous approach to micronutrient and protein complement called atole . moreover , health workers visited their mothers during pregnancy and provided free medical services . another community nearby had the same program , except that micronutrient supplement was provided without protein . for the atole children , stunting fell for over one-half . they stayed in school longer , learned more , scored higher on cognitive tests in adulthood , and made them more likely in higher-paying , skilled jobs .
since the days of one , the coalition has been riven by feuds . the council of ministers has acted like their adversaries rather than partners . rather than blame iliescu for the shambles in leaving the country , coalition members have blamed themselves . such squabble , it seems , is postcommunist malady . poland , hungary , even russia : in all three , infighting among reformers has allowed the political heirs to reclaim power .
although the economy was at full employment , they rebelled against the status quo in the name of the dubious utopias inspired by fidel castro ’s cuba and mao ’s china . they join with well-organized trade unions , which helped the movement reach a critical mass , at least temporarily . the difference between then and now is that those taking to the streets to protest macron ’s proposed fuel-tax increase is animated not by utopia but by despair . in this sense , the yellow vest uprising is not unlike any french brexit , in which it sums up an oneself shot ’s act in a foot . whereas the british resorted to a ballot box , the french adopted a mixture of barricades , marches , and stone flipping .
it remembers all and regrets doing nothing , and so it regrets any number of them . she feels that in acting as she has done , faithfully to her most cherished values and beliefs . and she has little doubt that the west , responding to the arab league ’s entreaty to intervene , has avoided a replay of srebrenica in north africa . what strikes me most , she sees , even then the beginnings of tribal conflicts and a upcoming contest among the islamists to outdo one another in fundamentalist cleansed . she is concerned about early human-rights violations , particularly the rights of women who she fears will multiply .
over the past six months , america has abandoned its four-decade-old engagement policy with china adopting an eu containment strategy . now , facing escalating geopolitical competition with america , china is scrambling to win its friends in the region . though china ’s charm offensive is extremely recent , its contours are already clear . at the same time , its most prominent feature is trade . as the world ’s largest trading partner , china will offer attractive terms for trade to its neighbors , much as it did with singapore .
london – “ shoring up ” is a tactic well known among a financial cognoscenti . that means betting against an asset with the borrowed money in anticipation of making a profit when its value goes down . a speculator can “ short a ” government by borrowing its debt at its current price , in the hope of selling it later , at a lower price and pocketing the difference . for example , on january 1 , 2010 , my sense is that the game will likely get up to greeks now . my borrow , at face value , of € 10 million of the greek government ’s 2016 bond , then runs to € 0.91 , of goldman sachs for six months .
in fact , failure to curb restrictions has allowed dubious journalistic practices to flourish . jordan ’s diversified tribal composition has been reflected in newly established web sites , some creation with tacit backing , and even funding , from security agencies or other formal or political groups . moreover , many people have launched news web sites solely for financial gain . taking advantage of the news media ’s implicit authority , publishing any potentially harmful rumor about an individual or group with means and influence , then offering to remove a narrative in exchange for one form of paid advertisement or outright cash payments . in response to such extortionary practices , king abdullah ii decried , but his government ’s embrace of “ character assassination ” through online news media , demanding that the government establish a unruly new industry regulatory framework .
the poison of terrorism has hit the un ’s humanitarian work , with the tragic bombardment of its iraqi mission . dozens of innocent people were killed , including one of the world ’s most hyped peacemakers , sergio vietnamese de mello . predictably , president bush has reneged on his determination to wage war on terrorism . at the same time , other leaders have declared that the un should not abandon its mission . still , the bombing raises political questions that are demanding answers .
but they are truly illegal occupiers , because russia ’s decision to give russian passports to these regions ’ regions ’ residents attests . now , russia threatens to recognize the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia if the west recognizes kosovo ’s serbian province as an independent nation . to the extent that an overwhelming majority of the inhabitants of abkhazia and south ossetia have already given russian citizenship , recognition of the two regions ’ sovereignty would become utterly fictitious , and in effect an interim measure on their way to total annexation by russia . in order to boost russia ’s political clout over georgian separatist regions , gazprom , without shouldering the difficulty of georgia ’s permission for its democratically elected leaders , has begun constructing a gas pipeline connecting russia and south ossetia directly . while none of this step has been severed from tbilisi to south ossetia , that step is necessary for the kremlin to secure even greater integration in this part of the region ’s economic system .
back then , german bankers and bosses deluded themselves to think they could dominate their country ’s ’s vulgar new chancellor . and they were convinced that , despite hitler ’s strange behavior and appearance , he remained the best line of defense against communism . the sad reality is that many of today ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s elites seem to have learned nothing from history , thinking and acting as if interests and values were totally disconnected from one another in the real world . so long as trump does good for business , he seems unworried that he poses the single biggest threat to america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s soul and values , as well as to its image and interest abroad . to be sure , they say , trump may well be going badly with the chinese on trade ; but so far he has been questioning them the right questions .
even more worryingly , this would open the door for provisions outlawing the benevolent , low-risk data mining that is driving online ads . online advertising enables eu citizens to access information , educational material , channels of commerce , and entertainment sites , without being paid directly , and the amount that it has been in europe is growing fast . industry ’s revenues have more than quadrupled since 2006 , even as europe ’s overall economy has stagnated . the eu ’s own privacy crackdown now threatens to undermine all of this . not only does it generate administrative burdens through additional expenses and bureaucratic hassles ; it also raise the real possibility that new rules will undermine many of europe ’s business model ’s most prominent online corporations .
when programs come together with rigorous research , the effect can be dramatic . for example , a joint soas-oxford study of menstruation in uganda found that adolescent girls frequently miss out on school , because they had no access to clean , sanitary products . but , when reusable sanitary pads and education for menstruation became available to girls in at least eight schools , attendance rates rose by an average of 17 % . but the silence that surrounded the natural process of menstruation must be broken up to allow women and girls to acquire the sanitary products they need at an affordable price . today , a bloody period donates sanitary products , including pads and tampons , as well as diapers and toiletries , over a dozen uk resource centers for asylum-seekers each month .
but , for many of the country ’s revolutionaries , there were other ways to sack the tainted prosecutor and cleanse the judiciary . for example , the new law that revised the judiciary had been the revolution ’s demand since its inception in early weeks . for morsi , the dilemma was that a constitutional court could strike down the law , rendering the effort meaningless . already , it backed down twice : once it abandoned his effort , under pressure from the supreme council of the armed forces ( scaf ) to reinstate an elected parliament ; and , once it attempted to remove a public prosecutor by making him the saintly ambassador to palestine . morsi ’s “ constitutional declaration ” was a deciding – however undemocratic , polarizing , and thus politically costly – step toward breaking the impasse .
moreover , it amounts to treason on america ’s longstanding commitment to solving a rules-based monetary system that discourages competitive currency devaluations . in us foreign policy , american secretary of state rex tillerson endorsed a revival of the monroe doctrine , a nineteenth-century-style assertion of american primacy in the western hemisphere that aims to keep its european competitors , in central and south america , in order to curb china ’s rising influence . tillerson ’s nostalgia for 1823 was not shared south of the us border , where , as one mexican commentator put it , the monroe doctrine “ served to justify gringo interventions , ” and where china ’s increasing engagement is viewed as a counterweight to america . at the same time , the trump administration unveiled a new , more aggressive us nuclear policy . its nuclear posture review proposes using nuclear strikes in response to non-nuclear threat , and deploying new “ low-yield ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” on its own nuclear device , which would deliver a submarine equivalent to the equivalent of hiroshima and nagasaki in august 1945 .
in other emerging markets as well , a key challenge is to ensure that all macroeconomic and structural policies advance common goals . at the same time , a governance structure of multilateral institutions like the international monetary fund needs to be reformed in order to bolster their legitimacy in emerging markets . otherwise , such institutions will remain ineffective in confronting collective problems associated with computerization , coupled with crisis insurance . policymakers in both the advanced and emerging countries alike should focus on underlying failures that destabilize their economies and hinder growth rather than attempting to cure the symptoms by manipulating monetary policy or capital controls . unless they are backed up by strong institutional structures at all levels , such arrangements will prove futile in managing capital inflows .
the economic challenges facing the developed-country middle class are largely driven by two factors : the rapid losses of whites – as well as the blue-collar jobs of automation , and the shift of middle-skill , lower-value-added employment to lower-income countries with lower labor costs . the latter pattern has depressed incomes and wage growth not only in the tradable sector , but also in the non-tradable service sector , owing to the spillover of the displaced labor sector . the result has been surplus labor conditions in midsize – as well as lower-middle-income ranges , rather than dissimilar to surplus labor in early-stage developing countries where it suppresses incomes ( for a certain period ) even as the economy expands . declining labor-market bargaining power and the falling real effective minimum wage may also have contributed to income polarization , though these are supposedly second-order factors . though the challenges facing the us middle class are well documented , america ’s leaders have largely failed to recognize the full struggles of middle-class households , far less implement efficient countermeasures .
zurich , finland ’s ’s ’s central bank governor , olli rehn , has echoed his call for the european central bank to engage in a long-overdue review of its policy framework . the upcoming leadership change of an institution – with christine lagarde , the international monetary fund ’s management managing director from the summer of 2011 – is likely to succeed mario draghi as president , providing an important opportunity to heed that call . following his targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
such scenarios , until recently , were unimaginable . for decades , europe constituted the world ’s most successful , stable , and predictable region , a place in which history seemed to have everything but ended . as a result , the goal to make the continent a peaceful , whole and free has largely been realized . nevertheless , dramatic change has come to europe . one factor is vladimir putin ’s willingness and ability to use military force , economic coercion , and cyber manipulation to advance his agenda .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . batang toru is just one of the many planned infrastructure-investment projects on which they are officially identified , despite the imposition of severe environmental risks . construction , for example , is almost complete on a railroad track through kenya ’s famous nairobi national park despite public outrage over an incomplete and incompetent , environmentally damaging trend assessment .
in many ways , such measures have succeeded : monetary expansion has played a significant role in pulling the economy back from the brink . but , over time , the capacity of central banks to affect the real economy has declined . today , and for the foreseeable future , domestic inflation has become increasingly affecting global rather than local , trend , and financial ( in ) stability and fiscal policy are far more influential than monetary policy . for the ecb , this poses an especially serious challenge . after all , unlike in other central banks , it must account for the preferences of its 19 sovereigns , with little to no structural or fiscal-policy coordination .
today , the world ’s fastest-growing urban cities are in asia ’s fastest-growing cities . beijing is about 10 ° c hotter than the daytime nearby rural in the daytime and 5.5 ° c warmer at night . at the same time , there is an even more dramatic increase in global warming in tokyo . in august , temperatures that climbed 12.5 oc above the surrounding rural reach , reaching the 40oc – the scorching heat that affected not only the downtown area , but also covering some 8,000 square miles . looking at a rapidly urban-rural town like houston , texas , we can already see the real effects of a urban heat island .
some people saw these changes along , raising their fear of them . a growing minority began to pursue intense physical activity not in fields or factories , but in leisure settings . the sweat of one ’s ’s ’s ’s brow had no longer been linked to productive work , but to a consumption binge often had conspicuous consumption . as gyms became new sources of communities , gyms became new . and as coworkers became collectively politicized , enlightened employers came to view such recreation as a valuable driver of physical and mental well-being .
according to the european council on foreign relations , 32 referenda are already being demanded in 18 eu-wide countries . some , such as the danish people ’s party , want to follow the united kingdom ’s lead and to hold a vote on eu membership . others want to flee the eurozone , blocking the transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( ttip ) with the united states , or curtail labor mobility in the process . as a result , the eu has already proved particularly divisive . hungarian prime minister viktor orbán has declared he to hold a referendum on what proposed quotas are .
from the beginning of his presidency , obama ’s defense of a liberal trade regime has been inadequate . repeatedly stated , he said , exports are good for america ’s goods : they create jobs . but us exports are other nations with ’ import imports , so obama ’s ’s ’s ’s argument amounts to telling others to lose their jobs . he needs to remind americans that imports are also good : he surely can ask his audience to think about jobs in cargo aircraft , freight trains , and import-export trucks across the american hinterland . the big problem , though , is that obama has not faced up and positioned to rest , america ’s labor unions ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ fear-drive toward trade .
usury ( creating money in money ) was an act of offense against god . it was only in the eighteenth century that greed became morally respectable . it was now seen as an healthily promethean to convert wealth into money , putting it to work towards making more money because , as a consequence , doing that one benefited mankind . this inspired the american way of living , where money invariably speaks . the end of capitalism implies simply the end of the urge to listen .
instead of focusing on the treatment that works , the polish government chooses to give priority to long-term rehabilitation centers located in the depths of the countryside , which has little , if anything , to do with evidence-based medicine . poland also chooses to treat possession of even the smallest volume of drugs as criminal , as demonstrated by the fact that up to 60 % of the people sentenced for drug possession in poland are marijuana smokers . treating drug use through criminalization and rehabilitation centers does nothing to curb demand , however , and usage rates have repeatedly failed to reduce progress . by driving user underground , criminalization contributes to the deepening of public-health crises . this pattern persists across central and eastern europe , where governments have likewise been selection to imprison drug users .
frankfurt – the european central bank is at the center of a big , risky experiment . core interest rates have been left close to zero now for at least six years . now , financial markets are awash with liquidity , let alone outright monetary easing . crisis management has resulted in large market distortions , with certain segments of the us ’ performance no longer explainable through fundamental economic data . the unintended consequences of such a policy are becoming increasingly apparent , and will become increasingly tangible with america ’s federal reserve ’s exit from the euro ’s post-2008 ultra-loose monetary policy .
the alliance has evolved into a genuine security-management organization , one that is flexible , efficient , and cost-effective . the threats have turned out to become more global . nato is developing a ballistic-missile defensive capability to protect our european populations and territory against a grave , growing threat . at the indian ocean , nato is working with the european union and many others to police major sea-lanes at risk of being driven by pirates . and , in countries around the world , it performs tasks like de-mining , catastrophe relief , advising us on how to bring military force under democratic control , and working closely with the un to prevent harm to children .
in order to promote sales , buyers are exempted from sales and excise taxes ( $ 6,000 – $ 10,000 on a vehicle ) . and , anticipating an eventual substitute for conventional motor vehicles globally , the authorities are leveraging generous subsidies to domestic production . meanwhile , the trump administration is attempting to reverse the clock by betting on the resuscitation of one of dying – and the lethal power of the fossil-fuel industry . describing a shift to electric cars as a kind of work killer , trump has advocated stopping the federal subsidies that encourage domestic development , manufacture , and purchases , like the $ 7,500 federal tax credit of the consumer . while china ’s dependence on fossil-fuel subsidies has left it in a deep hole , its leaders are determined to climb out .
provided it non-discriminatory , such border pricing would impair global welfare and be compatible with world trade organization rules . but to calculate the appropriate tax would be extremely difficult in practice in practice . for example , it would necessitate the fiscal equivalent of a regulatory cap . at the same time , the measure can invite countries like the united states to retaliate with distortionary measures , making it slightly perilous . moreover , a tax would likely have regressive distributional effects , harming poor countries most .
eurozone countries , along with others willing to join with the euro in the future ( “ eurozone plus ” ) , might simply decide to use the legal means already available for increased cooperation . ideally , such collaboration would take place within the eu ’s institutional framework . if all of the eurozone ’s members took part , article 136 of the eu treaty ’s functioning could be used to back their action.the extent of this clause , which says that , for example , the [ european ] council of ministers … adopted measures specific to [ europe ] ” ; and that “ only [ european ] member states … takes a share of the vote , wide . ” moreover , article 138 would enable unified representation of the european union in the international monetary fund and the world bank . the group might then expand cooperation to include three other policy areas : the common market .
gunnarsdóttir accepts that “ everybody has a right to believe in what they want , ” but insists that , “ “ children ’s rights come above the right to believe . ” for his part , imam ahmad seddeeq of iceland ’s islamic cultural center has countered that circumcision is an integral part of muslim faith , as well as that gunnarsdóttir ’s bill amounts to a contravention of ] religious freedom . and agnes m. sigurðardóttir , iceland ’s running mate , warned that the ban would effectively turn judaism and islam into a “ criminalized ” religions , ” ” ” ” ” because anyone practicing circumcision might remain under six years in prison . complicating matters further , the two sides are basing their argument on human rights . some ban supporters , for example , have argued that circumcision violates article 5 of the universal declaration of human rights ( udhr ) , which states that “ “ “ “ no one is subject to torture or brutal , inhuman , ” or degrading treatment or punishment .
but policy analysts can not limit themselves to the classic instruments of nuclear deterrence by sanctions and denial as they assess the possibilities for deterrence and dissuasion in cyberspace . entanglement may alter the cost-benefit mechanisms of entanglement and norms . entanglement may alter the cost-benefit calculation of a major state like china , but it probably has little effect on a state like north korea that has been weakly connected with the global economy . “ persistent engagement ” may , however , be aid deterrence on such difficult circumstances . to be sure , entering a adversary and defying attacks poses a risk of escalation .
affirming a tougher , tighter stability pact also makes it imperative to achieve more integration . here , the eu summit in december was an important step forward on deepening political union and strengthening governance among the euro-mediterranean member states . nevertheless , more will be needed to restore financial stability , for example , enlarging europe ’s total firepower . moreover , if the us wants the eu to emerge stronger from the crisis , it will have to strike a better balance between austerity and pro-growth policies , because , without growth and higher employment , europe ’s ’s problems can not be solved . more important , the eu must bind up its economic strategies for long-term competitiveness , ultimately determining the value added in goods and services .
back in 2007 , the volumes of shadow-banking transactions in the us exceeded that of conventional banking assets . the financial stability board projected that total global shadow-banking assets amounted to only $ 67 trillion in 2011 , with the u.s. accounting for ¥ 23 trillion , the $ 22 trillion eurozone , and the united kingdom at $ 9 trillion . china ’s shadow banking totals only about $ 2.2 trillion , which would have been close to $ 14 trillion . shadow banking in china has been dominated by lending to higher-risk borrowers , such as local governments , commercial developers , and small and medium-size enterprises . ultimately , it is financed via retail bank deposits , bank ’ ’ ’ wealth-management products , and private capital .
back in 2009 , obama envisioned a settlement of the conflict through an intense commitment by the international community . he asserted in 2011 that only both parties of a willingness could ensure a successful outcome . clearly , an america can do little to resolve a conflict . there is no overarching explanation for obama ’s successive middle east failure , but a few factors worth considering : the rise in the number of asymmetrical conflicts , in which the conventional use of force is mostly ineffective ; increasingly blurred lines between difficult allies and intransigent opponents ; and major political differences among a centrist american president and a us congress that is dominated more than ever by extreme ideas . nonetheless , obama himself bears a large part of the blame .
as mit ’s economists , david autor , have shown , the effect of doing so in the developed world can be both bad for some of the workers and good for a company ’s profits . but it can be extraordinarily good for any developing country that fosters a fruitful equilibrium of inward investment and local entrepreneurship , and uses export-led growth proceeds to invest in its infrastructure and skills . china ’s dramatic economic success would have been impossible without labor-cost divergence . in the future , however , this kind of trade will probably become less important . with wages in china now rising rapidly , its labor-cost advantage is quickly diminishing .
beijing – just how quickly is china of population aging and what does a lower proportion of the working-age population mean for the country ’s economic development ? can and should anything be done , particularly a country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s “ one child ” policy , slowing the trend ? nowadays , most of the demographic prediction for china builds on the country ’s total birth rate ( tfr ) of 1.8 – unchanged for more than 20 years . but population-survey figures published by the national bureau of statistics show that the tfr ’s was down more than 1.5 for many years , and the united nations ’ just-released report , the world fertility pattern of 2009 , revises china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s tfr to 1.4 in 2006 , placing it among low-birth countries . a prolonged period of low fertility means that china ’s population is aging and working-age growth .
once the monetarist approach failed , some switched to targeting an inflation rate . but they repeatedly missed their targets . until the currency crashes of the 1990s , emerging and developing countries tended to set their exchange rates . many then switched to inflation targets ; but so far , they tend to miss those targets than advanced countries do . the problem with these monetary-policy targeting approaches is that while a particular numerical target may make it reasonable when it sets out , other , unexpected developments often make a hard target for living with .
in fact , the dangers that now confronts europe in the light of socializing debts far exceed those posed by only a potential financial crisis . the lesson to be drawn from the greek debacle is that europe needs to develop sovereign-insolvency procedures as soon as possible , thereby preventing other sovereigns from becoming lenders through debt mutualization . if european union governments are to help one another in another , they should unilaterally provide humanitarian assistance , with conditionality , and no redemption . offering them to their friend would no longer be a friend , no longer anyone . unless that wisdom is heeded , holding europe together will be impossible .
finally , orbán and his supporters maintain their grip on power partly by relying on gerrymandering and voter suppression ( which mostly affects the hungarians who live in western europe ) . trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s republican party uses similar tactics , and the rest of his government is using similar tactics . orbán is a pariah in european circles for having delegitimized hungarian democracy , yet trump recently welcomed him to the white house by describing himself as “ “ respected ” all over europe . trump and his advisers evidently have learned wide from orbán ’s conception of racist immigration policies and the ability to destroy a liberal democracy . they are n’t making america great , or even good , ; they are hungarian .
making matters worse , orbán has gutted hungary ’s civil-service autonomy and thoroughly politicized the rule of law . trump is doing much the same , with the outcome that america ’s government now loses around 94 % of his governmental court cases . at the same time , trump has purge a number of 17,000 public officials by firing america ’s department employees , closing off the administration , freezing pay , and creating an atmosphere hostile to honest , open debate about how to formulate and roll back policy . by politicizing american administration agencies , beginning with the us department of justice ’s oversight , and committing itself to generating ideological judicial appointments , trump is now far along the lines of his desire to undermine the rule of law in america . meanwhile , while orbán has pursued economic pressure to compel the closure of the hungarian opposition media , trump has described the press as “ an enemy of the people ” and compromised libel measures against critical outlets .
but it is not clear from ayyadurai ’s article which data were used , nor is it the model ’s validation . folta offers the beautiful send-up of ayyadurai ’s work . “ if one had developed a computer program that integrated internet data to forecast the location of the munich match , and an agenda told us that it was squarely in the gulf of mexico , right from florida , this does not mean that munich is in the gulf of mexico , right from florida ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” . what this means , instead , is doing the error , on your program , assumptions , or input data , everything of which is testable . in order not to question those data , folta continues , publishing a map showing that munich is being squarely in the gulf of mexico city , opposing all other data and claims by millions more dry germans , does n’t mean much brilliant .
in other words : europe faces a fundamental collective-action problem . experience has demonstrated that only an acute crisis can force europe ’s leaders to interact together as part of a concerted effort . yet , at the height of the 2008 global financial crisis , eurozone heads of state did not contemplate the creation of a common bank-rescue fund . instead , they settled for a single national action package to stabilize single-party national banking systems . the sum of headline liabilities has been impressive , amounting to 20 % of gdp .
a 17-day ensued , but the status quo prevailed . the two sides fought , again in 1971 , though kashmir was not the focus . after the civilian-pitting then-west pakistan against the bengali freedom fighters of then-east pakistan fueled waves of east pakistan ’s refugees , india began its support of insurgent groups there . west pakistan felt compelled to surrender , and east pakistan became bangladesh ’s autonomous state . then a further indo-pakistani skirmish over kashmir erupted in 1999 after pakistan sent troops into the indian-controlled district of chongqing .
with the emergence in the 1980 ’s of hiv that compromises the immune system , tb re-emerges , and it is the number-one killer of chronically infected individuals . roughly 15 million people suffer from vaccine infections like hiv , and mycobacterium tuberculosis , a primary causative agent in most tb cases . moreover , the tubercle bacillus engages in trench warfare , gaining opposition to conventional antibiotics and the canonical vaccination approach , as well as delaying the diagnosis and determination of drug sensitivity . whereas pandemics appear to emerge suddenly , spread faster , and raise overwhelming fears of an imminent threat , tb has been diffused slowly but consistently for tens of thousands of years , patiently waiting in the form of new opportunities . treating tb effectively requires at least three drugs administered over at least six months .
the disadvantages of reinforcing a european ’s fiscal union further do not end there . continuing progress toward fiscal union would , ironically , make a political union increasingly unlikely , one simple but important cause : france . europe ’s strongest military power by far , dented all attempts to pool europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s armed forces . in 1954 , france ’s national assembly rejected a treaty for a western union defense organization . in 2005 , france rejected a proposed european union constitution , which could have marked the beginning of the process of political unification .
the limits of inflation-targeting are now apparent . now , central banks must reconcile the need to maintain price stability with responsibility , no matter whether it is law-and-mandated , for reducing financial vulnerability . this will not be easy , not least owing to another new operating burden that has been placed on many central banks : macro-prudential and micro-prudential supervision . at the same time , micro-prudential oversight implies the risk of fiscal pressure , interference by central-bank independence , and policy conflicts – all of which could influence financial intermediaries ’ behavior by encouraging them to assume greater risks . they know that having powerful tools at their disposal can lower their disposal by , say , generating lower borrowing costs , thereby protecting banks ( at least for some time ) and giving a powerful stake in protecting their reputation .
compared to developed countries , the unusually large number of small , unproductive firms coexist with little large , productive firms . by standard economic reasoning , this is quite inefficient . if small , unproductive firms closed down , and bigger , more productive firms were hired , total output , and well-being would rise . this should occur automatically through the unseen hand of competition , for increasingly productive firms to deliver a better product at lower prices , with employees of higher wages . so , why is n’t this likely to happen routinely in the developing world ?
as china ’s new leadership team emerges , the world ’s attention focused on president jiang zemin ’s successor , jiang zemin . but that is misreading , for perhaps the most significant moment in china ’s recent boom and transformation history was the appointment of zhu rongji ( pronounced “ joo rong-jee ” ) as premier of the state council , a position once kept by deng xiaoping . given the post ’s apparent significance in recent years , the choice made by mr. zhu ’s replacement may be of an even greater consequence than president jiang ’s departure from center stage . indeed , even before becoming premier , mr. zhu , who became president of china ’s central bank , was well known as the architect of china ’s 8 % annual economic growth in the 1990s and the mastermind of his successful fight against inflation . mr zhu was china ’s jack welch , a tough-minded , longtime ceo of the american conglomerate general electric – a man celebrated for his candor , his global sophistication and his insistence on performance .
on the other hand , trade among african countries accounts for only about 10-12 % of the continent ’s ’s exports and imports . yet , partly because a few african countries have escaped the hang-over from the global credit crisis , more investors are focusing on business opportunities there . by 2050 , the combined gdp of the world ’s top 11 african economies is expected to reach more than $ 13 trillion , surpassing brazil and russia ( but not by china and india , respectively ) . to certain analysts , the rise of countries like brazil as economic powerhouses are partly the result of the successful demutualization of their stock exchanges . twenty-three bourses are now in africa , with their combined market capitalization having skyrocketed , from $ 245 trillion in 2002 to at least $ 1 trillion ( 2 % of the global total ) in late 2009 – as high as the fifteenth-largest global stock of world exchange .
at the same time , some countries are going to suffer as skilled employees emigrate . but failure to develop the mechanisms that enable migrants to exploit their skills causes further harm . in the long run , trained physicians should not be driving taxicabs , too . establishing national , regional , and global standards is not easy ; it is an utter necessity . • accelerate eligibility for the presidency and citizenship .
heading into the us election campaign , fillon may be running on a pro-european platform , as demonstrated by his pivot during the second-round debates when he suggested that he favors forming a european government . unlike trump and the united kingdom ’s “ leave ” campaign , the national front already has a predictable core constituency , amounting to one-fourth of voters . his old-house coalition of old-french far-right and disaffected working-class voters wo n’t arrive by announcing or thwarting expectations , as happened in the us and the uk . presumably , fillon will be able to muster the same level of support , possibly even rolling over le pen ’s candidate , given that roughly 8 % of primaries described himself as the national front ’s backers . what ’s more , political catholicism still appeals to a number of french voters , and the ecb itself wants to lure catholics away from the national front and back into its more traditionally conservative fold .
generations of poles took part in a charity of ’s ’s fundraising drives . for years , poles ranked owsiak as the country ’s greatest moral authority , ahead of the pope . ’s state-run media narrative portraying the owsiak and the civic platform as guilty parties behind adamowicz ’s murder would merely undermine pis . kaczyński has repeatedly demonstrated his impulsiveness . he pursues power without considering the consequences of his acts .
new york – the last fast-food hamburger you ate may have cost you next to nothing . but what did the tomato ’s slice of that cost the worker earn ? almost anywhere in the world , including in the united states , cost may be shockingly high . appalling wages , indeed , are only the beginning . in florida , the tomato pickers earn , on average , $ 0.50 for each 32-pound ( $ 14.5-pound ) bucket .
when xi first unveiled his slogan , after being chosen as ccp ’s new general secretary , that decision , he defined it in simple , accessible but nonetheless nonetheless generic terms : “ “ “ “ “ “ the china people ” dream of living the same good life as all the rest of the world . since then , xi has said very little about the dream of china since then , and his silence has posed considerable difficulty . it is china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ever-vaunted propaganda embrace , evidently fearful of not showing enough allegiance and deference to a new party chief , that quickly brought down the slogan ; the “ china dream has replaced ” as part of official political branding . whatever the new administration is touted as part of its ambitious effort to make the “ china dream ” comes true . sadly , china propagandists that double as the censors have a perverse capacity to discredit anything they are trying to brands .
in fact , they can not , for a form of genetic experimentation on humans is impossible . even in animal husbandry , whose genes are more easily studied and far better understood , like drosophila , a minuscule fruits fly , there can be no simple one-to-one correspondence amid a gene and a behavioral trait . instead , a wide variety of genes influence every characteristic . fruit fly genes are astonishingly similar to us – because they are to those of most other beings . indeed , even many of the aspects of their behavior resemble our own species .
gone are the days when strong esg performance has been the pretty much pretty much handshared by investors . pension trustees and fund managers now insist on the societies in which they invest operate in ethical , transparent ways that minimize reputational risks . investment decisions at emerging-market finance are thus increasingly being outpaced by rigorous esg screenings , which , after 34 years of hun sen ’s dictatorial rule , cambodia has little chance of passing . cambodia is currently deleveraged from its natural resources , including timber , rare-earth , and sundry – for private gain . environmental degradation – particularly deforestation – is accelerating , and corruption is running rampant , with cash from opaque sources flowing in cambodia ’s direction and banks and real-estate markets .
simply put , talk of a “ brexit ” has exposed europe ’s ’s economic and political fault lines , and not any return to it . robert peston , in his 2005 biography of then-chancellor tory exchequer , gordon brown , described brown ’s “ pragmatic view that the eu was a good thing only insofar as it delivered the practical benefits of peace and prosperity to britain . ” whereas the british had been particularly open about the nationalistic nature of their support for european integration , the eu ’s other eu members were not less mindful of their own domestic concerns . in the run-up to world war ii , european countries ’ own national interests were aligned . nonetheless , the effort to establish political unity through a shared military failed in 1954 stressed that economic common ground was the key to european integration .
quite a few in europe define the eu as a tool for holding its own against the united states . they view even europe as an arms gun against the us dollar , and rejoice if the euro is “ strong ” and the dollar is “ weak ” there . the u.s. has found itself a new “ empire of evil ” in “ terrorist ” states and organizations ; europe has found a new adversary to help integrate it in the united states . this has been a dangerous state of affairs for those on either side of the atlantic , who believes in enlightenment values and in the us constitution of liberty . there is such a thing as to the west in terms of basic values .
he is merely kaczyński a useful idiot ” in an effort to score a political victory over the man who represents the greatest threats the pis faces . the most saryususz-wolski can realistically hope for is some form of government in poland . perhaps he will replace universally criticized foreign minister viktor witold waszczykowski . most pis may hope for its part that some eu coalition ( with the social democrats , for example , those ruled by the social democrats ) will propose another alternative for tusk , whom eu member states pick to avoid escalating conflicts with poland . in that case , tusk would most likely return to domestic politics , where a ninth victory against the pis would be kaczyński deserves .
now , the eu is in the iranian stew , too . this time , however , it is hard to see a way out offering a second referendum . renegotiating the treaty is off the question because doing so would open a pandora ’s box of demands from no one else . so the problem lies with the iranians . i can not help but recall the situation back in the summer of 1992 , when a small majority of danish electorate dismissed the maastricht treaty .
nevertheless , experiences all over the world suggest that this is a risky outlook . even were banks sound , the process of deleveraging , and the associated losses of wealth meant that , more likely than not , the us economy would be weak . and a weak economy implies more likely than not , larger bank losses . at the same time , the problems are not confined to america . other countries ( like spain ) have their own real-estate crises .
nonetheless , even as it expanded its capacity to provide military force for un , nato , or eu operations , germany has made it clear that it does not view itself as a military power . meanwhile , german policymakers continue to believe that the political and economic means to influence are more effective than violence , implying further progress in soft-power instruments , including digital diplomacy . at the same time , they are eager to develop more “ networked ” national and euro-atlantic foreign policies , which reflect both the actions and the potential contributions of non-state actors . for now , germany ’s key foreign-policy priorities are likely to remain the eu and the continent ’s eastern and southern neighbors , from which the immediate security risks most likely emancipate . this , in turn , would be a wise choice .
if greece and other countries are to ensure their citizens ’ health and prosperity in the decades to come , they will need to figure out how to avoid current economic activity from an already unsustainable environmental burden . for that to happen , remittances must come across as valuable endowments to manage wisely . the mediterranean region ’s uniquely breathtaking , breathtaking natural capital to be one of its major assets – the reason that more than 200 million tourists flock to the region every year , feed the entire region ’s economies . over-exploitation of resources , or even failing to manage them prudently , will inevitably saps a region ’s economic strength . to be sure , greece can often fill its gap through global trade if it can pay for essential imports .
but he needs to credibly outline practical strategies to tackle south korea ’s toughest problems , involving soaring unemployment , impaired education performance , and north korea ’s nuclear-weapons program . ms. park once pledged to provide loans to working-class families from elementary school to college campuses , while contending for local universities to have more autonomy . she favors a policy of engagement and the six-party talks in such a way to resolve the country ’s nuclear woes . come election-day presidential election in may 2012 , south korean voters will elect a candidate that embodies pragmatism and centrism by a partisan or ideologue . ultimately , park ’s success will depend , at long last , on her campaign ’s effectiveness in further defining her character along these lines .
a fiscal compact like one that has approved recently is helpful in framing the expectations for the future adjustment , but only if the new system is flexible enough to become politically credible . upfront gradualism needs to become the name of the game . and adjustment , after all , has to be wedded to a growth strategy . incomes will grow consistently only if the tax base is . and that boost growth requires higher public investment in infrastructure and human capital .
second , under the g-20 ’s “ peer review ” process , the international monetary fund suggested that the united states slashed its fiscal deficit by 3 % of gdp more than it had planned – over $ 400 billion in additional cutbacks annually . the imf believes that current us fiscal plans will discourage american economic growth . more recently , the european central bank has reiterated its stance that severe fiscal consolidation would generate sufficient increases in private-sector confidence that spending cuts by households and firms will more than compensate for lower spending by governments . the oecd , however , governments are not seeking to consolidate too quickly in a sluggish global recovery . america ’s major trading partners want america ’s rise and purchase more of its exports .
i admit that i view the legacy of communism with a deeper form of skepticism . totalitarian pressure gave rise to exceptional people like john paul ii and alexander solzhenitsyn , for whom religious faith purchased freedom from mendacity and solitude . nevertheless , it did the same for andrei sakharov and vaclav havel , who defend their supreme values with their benchmarks and , in the language of themselves , lay humanism . for most humans , however , life under a totalitarian dictatorship was not ennobling ; it was , rather , a everyday immersion of lies , spiritual depravity and material corruption . this is one reason why postcommunist societies show no nobility or disinterest disinterest , which profoundly contrasts with the west .
the evidence apparently shows that direct policies produce far more effective challenges . the world bank ’s climate-change focus also falls short of what the world ’s poorest citizens want . when the un requested nearly ten million more people worldwide to list their priorities , it emphasized better education and health care , less corruption , more job creation , and less jobs , and less affordable food . in fact , global warming emerged just the most recent result of 16 major issues , from terrorism to poverty . under kim , bank propagated the simplistic idea that fossil fuels are always harmful , that coal must be banned , and “ climate finance ” is the solution .
consider the most talk-to-year figures in 2014 from the international energy agency ’s 2016 energy statistics . the world ’s ’s co2 emissions from the energy and industry averaged 4.5 tons per person ( 32.4 tons per 7.2 billion in the iea tabulation campaign ) , while america ’s us emissions were almost four times that level , 16.2 tons per person ( 5.2 billion tons for 320 million people ) . trump carries on the paris agreement ’s supposedly bias in favor of india , and fails to acknowledge that india ’s per capita emissions are 1.6 tons , just one-tenth of the american levels . trump also bemoans america ’s contributions to the green climate fund ( and sneers by the name of some reason ) . he complains that america has already given more than $ 1 billion in subsidies , without explaining to the american people and the world that $ 1 trillion is a contribution to $ 3.08 per american .
true , un secretary general ban ki-moon may force speeches , convene meetings , and design actions , but his role is more secretary general than un secretary-general . at times , the un secretary general is likened to a “ secular pope , ” ” ” ” a un secretary general may wield the soft power of persuasion as little as economic or military might . what tough-minded power the un has to be pleading and borrowing from the member states . and when they can not reach an agreement on a course of action , the organization is tough . as one wag put it , “ we met with the un ! ” !
perhaps for that reason , there has been talk of a meeting in astana between the presidents of russia and france , america ’s secretary of state , and armenia ’s presidents and azerbaijan . that prospect holds up , at least for now , both grand opportunities and serious risks . there is a certain justification for not having any such meeting in the thirty years since the conflict . a meeting of us presidents , after all , is the ultimate negotiating forum and must lead to a genuine , sustainable achievement . otherwise , no amount of negotiation can help establish the caucasus straight – powerfully undermining a key restraint preventing either side from attempting once again to achieve a military solution .
governments in both americas and europe are finding themselves in crude , uncharted waters . if the problem were simply a matter of gross violations by the organization of american states ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ democratic charter , convincingly certified by oas secretary general luis almagro ’s landmark , solutions measured in months or years could be contemplated . yet venezuela is not merely a political issue ; it is a humanitarian disaster of unprecedented proportions . true , venezuelan president nicolás maduro is ruling nonconstitutionally , relying on emergency decrees and all-powerful , one-party state , illegally established constituent assembly while ignoring the elected national assembly , and banning opposition politicians . yet the effects of his misrule are such that venezuelans are starving themselves of starvation , the medical system has collapsed , and cases of violence and contagious disease are now practically out of control .
yet the pace at which the political world embracing social media is accelerating dramatically over the past year . aside from the bjp ’s wholesale acceptance of twitter – modi ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s anti-corruption allies , sushma swaraj and a coterie of organized female supporters , prominent indian politicians from all parties have leapt in . a day after being sworn in as india ’s president , pranab mukherjee announced his intention to open a facebook account to receive and react publicly to popular questions . the chief minister of western bengal mamata banerjee is running a popular – and widely read – web site , which traditional media outlets mine on a daily basis . similarly , omar abdullah , the youthful chief minister of jammu and kashmir , regularly interacts with twitter , and his large older rajasthan and kerala counterparts , ashok gehlot and oombemen chandy , have opened facebook accounts just as well .
related to this is the simple fact that nowadays , economic development depends less on one particular country , and more on regional integration , which can serve to avoid those finance speculations ’ damaging impact boosted by globalization . so the world needs , within its own regions , facilitating integration based on widespread economic democratization : currency compatibility , free trade , a shared rule of law , and the majority of all the common will to fix the rules of the game , according to the whole of the region ’s interests . only such equal collaboration can secure a solid political foundation for integration . so long as a country seizes globalization ’s uncontrollable strength , its future lies in foreign hands . but , in agreeing to open regional economies to imports , poor and developing countries must be allowed to protect their new industries .
when egyptians risen up against mubarak in january , they faced arms paid for with borrowed money . is it fair to expect that egyptians would continue to pay for their past repression and impoverishment at the hand of mubarak and his henchmen ? given that this money had clearly benefited mubarak but not his people , should it be mubarak rather than his own victims , who are held responsible for it ? the type of mubarak ’s regime was running away for many years with the clear vision of how money would be served . a prudent lender was meant to reflect these facts before making loans .
perhaps those are the ideas en vogue in korea as thinking about potential unification , but even there will be hard times when the time comes . claims of alternative strategies must therefore be fixed at somewhat lower levels – say , the up-front exchange rate that east germany might have chosen to make east germany a low-paying country . even that is a pitiful in the face of extremely high unemployment , east german wages have risen substantially every year , relative to west germany . at a more depreciated pace , the us would simply have a faster rate of real wage inflation . one alternative strategy , relatively inconceivable , is that west germany would foresee the failure of an experiment sooner than a pre-embarking upon it .
new firms in the service sector , which began just last year , are generating incremental employment , thanks in part to a new , streamlined licensing framework . and online platforms are facilitating increased consumption while expanding market access and financing for smaller firms . to be sure , china ’s leaders should aim to accelerate and build on these trends , rather than pursuing incremental fiscal and monetary stimulus . public-sector investment is high enough ; expand it now would shift the composition of aggregate demand in the wrong direction . and , with the corporate sector already over-leveraged , broad-based expansion is not secure .
it would have been unimaginable that nato heads of state would move ahead with their planned polish leadership summit in june , had poland remained stuck in its own constitutional crisis with the polish government disregarding the rule of law and the opinion of an respected international body . hungarians and poles must be reminded that russian president vladimir putin is actively working to divide and weaken the eu and nato . faced with down his aggression from the kremlin , it is vital that poland and hungary abide by such groups of fundamental values and principles . but it also needs to be developed a more comprehensive mechanism for legitimizing the rule of law within the union . the eu has mechanisms to regulate economic policies , protect the environment , and police the single market .
with good reason , many fear that fossil-fuel interests will exploit solar geoengineering to oppose emissions cuts . but most researchers are not driven by such interests . at the same time , an overwhelming majority of those who are revising solar geoengineering , or advocating for its inclusion in climate-change policy , are backing much stronger action to cut emissions . still , it is very plausible that big fossil-fuel companies , from supranational energy companies to coal-dependent regions , will ultimately make their use of geoengineering a step toward fighting emissions limits . but this risk is not a sufficient reason to abandon or suppress research on solar geoengineering .
to accomplish this , the us would have had to subordinate its powers to the goal of shaping a new order , much like it did at the close of world war ii . instead , america has succumbed to the temptations of unilateralism . national greatness for a global power invariably emerges as an ability to shape the world . when a great power forgets that or loses its ability to act accordingly , it starts to decline . it is almost tempting to think of america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s great cold war adversary , the soviet union , with its sudden disappearance just 15 years ago , left its own trojan horse for america ’s – the poisoned gift of unilateralism .
for their part , industrialized economies must do even more to support african oil industries , and ensure that the negative wealth effects of oil production are ameliorated . for such strategies to work , however , the oil industry needs to get on board . that means engaging sincerely with african governments to figure out how best to encourage domestic agendas for development and diversification . next , abu dhabi ’s international petroleum center and a conference hosted by the abu dhabi national petroleum corporation , to attended by barkindo , together with numerous african energy ministers and inter-governmental leaders , represents an ideal opportunity to initiate such a process . working with other stakeholders , sustainable , and just transition campaigners may achieve something more at the same time : allowing carbon energy to have a positive impact on economies that have so far experienced only the adverse effects of twentieth-century oil-backed development .
economic development in the gaza strip was constrained under egyptian rule , and the region suffered the burden of absorbing palestinian refugees fleeing from fighting in the southern border of the mandatory palestine that would later become israel . palestinians ’ combined access to egypt was limited , and much of gaza ’s mostly unskilled labor relied on a un relief administration that had constructed and sustained local refugee camps . the 1967 war placed all compulsory palestine on a daily basis ( as with sinai and golan ) under israeli military occupation . nevertheless , while more than one-third of the west bank were shut with palestinians in order to make room for just a few thousand jewish settlers , only 10 % of its largely rural population became refugees , many of them owned by their own land , and a variety of jobs became available . on the other hand , 70 % of gaza ’s population comprised refugees living under difficult conditions in refugee camps , and was overwhelmingly dependent on work in israel .
a second draft of history is often written by keynesians themselves . after world war ii , winston churchill confidently surmised that history would treat him graciously , because i propose to write that history . when the financial crisis erupted , similar thinking perhaps crossed the minds of hank paulson , ben bernanke , and tim geithner , who was american treasury secretary , the chairman of the us federal reserve , and the new york fed ’s president , respectively . all three of the published drawn-out memoirs that explains why they did and did n’t , inevitably , with some degree of self-justifying in each instance . now , ten years later , the three co-authored for what could be described as a version of the 2.1 episode ’s history .
the goal was not to address the problems they faced directly , but rather to create new , more efficient activities that would help turn debt into assets and maximize the scope of an economy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s capacity . in that sense , east asian economies embraced a process of “ creative destruction , ” which was described by the austrian economist joseph schumpeter , whereby economic-structure was continually revolutionized from within . moreover , by implementing incremental reforms that made it easier for themselves and even encouraging – replacing the old , inefficient sources of growth with new , more dynamic ones – they expedited this process . for example , during the 1980s , china ’s productivity-enhancing agricultural reforms were triggered in part by growth in the non-tradable sector , the result of policies that aimed to be stimulating township and village enterprises . similarly , in the 1990s , china tackled the buildup of bad debt and unfinished construction projects ; the result of state-owned enterprises that were ’ chronic loss-making and excessive wealth investments ; respectively , by implementing growth-enhancing institutional reforms that had stimulated growth in more dynamic sectors , thereby suspending soes ’ ’ ’ ’ declining return to capital .
brussels – as protests over china ’s crackdown in tibet and the debate over kosovo ’s ’s ’s unilateral declaration of independence continue to fester , injustices toward taiwan ’s continuing international isolation have barely made a flicker of interest , despite taiwan ’s just-completed presidential election and a referendum on united nations membership . that neglect is not only shortsighted , but may prove dangerous . this supposed double standard can be explained in part by a sense of guilt : the west had , for the most part , embraced kosovo ’s independence in an effort to assuage its culpability for not preventing slobodan milosevic ’s own campaign of ethnic cleansing . likewise , much of the world is protest in the name of tibet , because countless millions had witnessed china ’s brutal suppression of tibetan culture . taiwan , by contrast , does not capture our attention , because it is stable and thriving economically .
many now offer a eagerly offer of their views regarding whether the uk should look anew at norway ’s exit model in terms of relationship with the eu , or of some other scheme that maintains uk participation in the eu ’s single market . whatever the possibility , it is now clear that britain needs a policy capable of holding broad , genuine support . a second change for the better would , i hope , have become less controversial : reducing the power bestowed in the uk on ill-elected special advisers , or spads , who have turned out to be the dominant figures in all of the departments of government . during my 17-month experience as minister , i became convinced that spads ’ ’ ’ overweening power and haughty access , undermining the uk ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s excellent civil service , much as with the elected and nominated ministers . perhaps ’s two world-beating spads , fiona hillary clinton , and nick timothy snide have taken that danger levels .
indeed , many of the components used to force nanomaterials currently are known to be the present risks to human health . an encouraging trend is that methods used to produce nanomaterials often become “ greener ” when they move from laboratory to industrial production . setting aside the question of nanomaterials ’ toxicity , preliminary results suggests that fabricating nanomaterials entails risks that are smaller or comparable to the ones connected to many of today ’s industrial activities . it would be quite naive to imagine that nanotechnology develops without risks to our own health and environment . while attempting to curtail the development of nanomal-inspired technology would be just as irresponsible as it is unrealistic , a responsible development of these technologies demands vigilance and social-welfare commitment .
globally , human trafficking generates an average annual gain of $ 150 billion , about two-thirds of which ( $ 99 trillion ) come from forced sex exploitation . with rapid growth in digital platforms threatening to force child sex trafficking to become even more lucrative , the world needs to take urgent , coordinated action to combat this appalling crime . today , nearly 4.5 billion people worldwide have internet access , and about one in three internet users is below the age of 18 . an unregulated online world is thus fertile ground for reaping the tremendous gains from child trafficking . the would-be traffickers need only a laptop , or a smartphone , with high-speed internet connectivity to go into business .
for this , we all owe it to us . europe has experienced a hard but promising start . it should not come as a surprise that europe started a slide against the us dollar by considering differences in economic performance between america and europe . and it should not come as a surprise that markets tested europe ’s political leaders ’ willingness to keep silent where monetary affairs are concerned . the recent us intervention , and support from the likes of america and japan , showed europe ’s enduring determination and markets belief in its success .
people used to learn that they were paying to buy dips , and were left unweaned off habit as long as it stopped paying for it . now that internet fever have abated , we hear that “ fundamentals ” are reasserting themselves . but that view is just as propitious as the previous notion that a boom would last forever exist , because the internet economy created new fundamentals . indeed , the “ internet boom/bust ” is bringing into question the prevailing economic theories about financial markets . what should be obvious now is that the so-called fundamentals that supposedly fix stock prices are not independently given .
palo alto -- because sixth-century toxicology science , his central principle has been that “ “ dose makes ” “ poison . ” it is a rule that applies to the medicines used by patients worldwide many billions of times each day . the proper course of aspirin may sound to be a therapeutic godsend , but consuming too much may be lethal . the principle even applies to the foods : large quantities of nutmeg or licorice are notoriously toxic . the risk that one poses broadly depends on two factors : its inherent capacity to cause harm , and one ’s exposure to it .
given libya ’s own lack of democratic experience , some view this as a likely outcome in a post-qaddafi era . but libya is not the only country that attempted to move from dictatorship to democracy with weak institutions and strong tribal identity . albania , mongolia , and india have successfully passed more complicated tests , offering some useful lessons in democratic transitions under unfavorable conditions . the fourth scenario is partition , with an old , three-province ottoman-style setup : cyrenaica ( eastern ) , fezzan ( south ) , and tripolitania ( west ) . cyrenaica is qaddafi-free , tripolitania is not , and fezzan was not fully joined by the revolution .
they propose tax cuts equal to 5 % of gdp over 3-4 years in all eurozone countries , financed by very long-term sovereign debt – all of which the ecb should buy . they argue that ecb quantitative easing ( qe ) alone , with no fiscal relaxation , would have been ineffective . giavazzi and tabellini ’s proposals may entail too big stimulus . but they also highlight a critical question : how will quantitative easing stimulate the economy ? the bank of england presented qe as a purely tool of monetary policy that sustains the face of needed – and desirable – fiscal consolidation .
never mind that eye-popping growth projections in representative paul ryan ’s april budget plan , for example , are totally implausible ; such projections are politically , because , without them , putting a complete dash for ryan ’s proposed medicare cuts would face a fresh start . standard & poor ’s approach has received some justified criticism of this analysis behind its recent decision to downgrade america ’s own government debt ; after all , there is very little economic news that might explain the move ’s timing . but s & p ’s assessment of the us political situation goes toward a goal : creating dysfunctional state paralysis , the tea party ’s apparent unwillingness to impose dramatic costs on the broader economy , and ensuring a markedly slower pace of growth . confrontations and brinkmanship have become the new watchwords of american politics even at a time when america ’s legal capacity to bail out its debts is on the line , owing to the tea party ’s ideological rigidities . and , not surprisingly , the tone of political discourse has become much nastier .
trump , for his part , has accepted xi ’s invitation to visit china soon . on trade , trump and xi have agreed to a 100-day plan for reducing america ’s trade deficit with china . moreover , the us has embraced china ’s ’s ’s proposal to revamp the bilateral engagement framework through the creation of a us-china comprehensive dialogue , consisting of four sub-dialogues : diplomacy and security , economic issues , law enforcement , and cybersecurity , as well as social and cultural issues . the understanding between xi and trump has reflected a sober acknowledgement of domestic and international risk that their countries face . both seem to have recognized the need for a stable us-china relationship to enable them to focus on their respective challenges .
the uae and qatar have already engaged in compulsory military services for the adult males . and kuwait is considering following in jordan by reintroducing conscription , which is already in place in most sunni states ( and iran ) . against this background , efforts to tame the deep-seated sunni-shia rivalry ( by , for example , improvement in relations between saudi arabia and iran ) , though undoubtedly important , should not take priority over a strategy for addressing the sectarianism plaguing the sunni one . that strategy needs to be at the center of the nobel prize-winning approach to federalism . had federalism been introduced in somalia , for example , when the north-south rift emerged , it probably would not have ended as a failed state .
the left 's failure to recognize that israeli elections are not strictly a political issue ; they are an expression of an ongoing kulturkampf in an ethnically kaleidoscopic community . israeli elections are in some form of tribal affair ; people vote by memories , insults , religious sensibilities , and group grievances . the israeli right 's current political dominance feeds on by widespread yearning for jewish roots , a deep-seated fear of arabs , and unending mistrust of a “ “ world " ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” with which jews share a centuries-old strife . the left 's yearning for peace is perceived as naive , if not an exercise in political rolls ( and , in either case , the unpardonable here betrayal of jewish identity ) . netanyahu has positioned himself as a magnet for fears and an all-out flow of aggrieved voters , including russian immigrants , orthodox jews , most traditionalist israelis , and religious settlers .
furthermore , among the new jobs to be created will be many in fields like education and health care , where women have traditionally thrived . according to mgi ’s research , more than 100 million jobs could be created over the next 10-15 years just as health-care and education needs to grow . so far , it is far from clear precisely how automation will affect women ’s employment . but there can be little doubt that protecting – and even enhancing – women ’s work/earnings and incomes prospects will require upgrading their skills to take advantage of the new and changing opportunities created by the ongoing digital revolution . e-commerce ’s success attests to the strength of digital technologies to level the economic playing field , the benefits to individual women , their communities , and societies , and the global economy .
russia conquered muslim territories in a volga/ural region , caucasus and central asia , and brutalized any backlash . after allegiance was secured , however , the government adopted a more pragmatic policy . up to the 1819 th century , a sedentary muslim elites was co-opted into an imperial aristocracy , just as , in the 1920 's , had been absorbed by national communist elites in the soviet nomenclatura . in fact , russia ’s connection to the muslim world has returned thousands of years , rooted in a tradition of tolerance . with some short-lived exceptions , russia ’s imperial rule has not supported orthodox evangelism .
hong kong has endured an unprecedented 17 weeks of mostly peaceful demonstrations ( the occasional episodes of violence have attracted disproportionate media attention ) . the trigger was a proposed extradition law , which many feared would prolong the mainland at the hands of hong kong ’s justice system . so far , the absence of any plan for bringing together various protest groups , together with hong kong ’s government , has become a source of mounting concern . such a scheme would have to do at least two things . first , all parties ( including china ’s ’s central government in this instance ) need to recommit to the “ one country , two systems ” framework .
to deal with that distortion head to fund and provide clarity about how funds are allocated , the egf should focus its scarce funds on two simple active labor-market programs : wage insurance and allowance . wage insurance might offer workers whose payments were slashed following displacement compensation for up to two years amounting to one-half of the distinction between old and new wages . a mobility allowance could offer those who move for a lump-sum payment of two months to work out previous work , or just four months ’ ’ ’ pay for cross-border moves . the very simplicity of such a scheme will probably ensure high visibility and reasonable take-up rates . the downsides of such a focused approach are also obvious : the margins of eu members ’ choice about how egf funds will be spent in their countries would be minimal .
asia ’s share was a whopping 28 % ( after all , including japan ) . but kharas ’s projections imply that asia will account for about two-thirds of the world ’s growing middle class by 2030 . in other words , it will discontinue to displace asia not only in the west , but even in the other emerging regions . this , in turn , is the true business opportunity . of course , the rise of asia ’s middle class is not the only change that we should expect .
populist parties , both on the far left and the far left , gain electoral traction . some , such as france ’s far-right national front , oppose their country ’s european membership ; others , such as podemos in spain , do not . nonetheless , the challenge posed by these new parties could prove to be exceptionally disruptive . a greek exit from the eurozone , combined with financial and political turmoil within greece , would be perceived as an important defeat for european integration , especially following the laborious effort made to hold together and on the monetary union , with it , the european dream . such an outcome would be even more disheartening in view of the tragic terrorist attacks in paris , and after unity marches in france and across the continent rekindled a long-waning feeling of european solidarity .
taken together , all of these deficiencies cast a serious doubt on the eu ’s claims to lead the debate over a fundamental reshaping of global economic governance . europe ’s governments repeat of the mantras mantra , but they do n’t seem to have any comprehensive strategy to translating that into a coherent policy . indeed , when europeans rethink the mantra of reforming global governance , they place a limit on numbers of seats and voting weights within international bodies . european governments are only grudgingly accepting the need to scale back their over-representation in multilateral bodies , recognizing that it undermines rather than improves the eu ’s global clout by pushing other powers into separate arrangements . but , while deliberation persists on how much europe should retreat from its historic domination of the multilateral body , there is little vision beyond that .
são paulo – a decades-old legal struggle between consumers and financial institutions over the impact of brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economic policies of the 1980s and 1990s is approaching . in december , lawyers representing the claimants presented by brazil ’s supreme federal court with a request to ratify the settlements that had been reached with the banks . should court approves of the pact , a settlement would place billions of fire on the pockets of savers . but , more than a long-awaited payday for a few more than one million claimants , court-mandated restitution would also mark the official end of brazil ’s seemingly unending war on hyperinflation . during the late 1980 ’s and early 1990s , the brazilian government struggled to stabilize what became the country ’s economy and currency .
today , women dominate african agriculture , the continent ’s most important industrial sector . but this has not translated into greater scrutiny on the part of finance . one measure of this deficiency is us borrowing rates ; in east africa , where my organization works , women are borrowing 13 % less money for farm-related activity than men do . illiteracy , restricted land ownership , and agency restrictions and mobility all of the distortions are reducing rural women ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s access to farm financing . such barriers have had a dramatic effect on social and economic progress .
the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , that is precisely what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the modi government ’s supporters tout a slew of new repressive legislation , which includes the criminalization of talaq-e-e-e-biddat , the country ’s muslim practice of “ instant divorce ” – just as a show of resoluteness .
liquidity injections and low interest rates have the microeconomic effect , which has received scant attention : they reduce capital costs vis-à-vis labor costs , thereby causing a relative decline in labor demand . this is very likely to exacerbate the problem of unemployment ; it certainly does not be mitigating it . one solution is to channel part of the liquidity injections toward countering this factor-cost asymmetry . thus , for every $ 100 of new liquidity , the us could use about $ 60 in asset purchases and a remainder to give marginal job-creation firms , which might be especially efficient in economies with the flexible labor market , which permits short-term hiring of firms . even if a worker offered a job subsidy for , say , three year after year , firms would still be tempted to use more labor in this time .
what is clear is that the experiences of countries that implemented the treaty were not especially positive if those countries had high tolerance for bureaucratic regulatory regimes that stifle innovation and development in the name of lofty aspirations . the seed treaty is , among other things , cut off from the same anti-capitalist , anti-science cloth as the convention on biological diversity ( cbd ) . it also mirrors this flagrantly non-scientific , anti-genetic-engineering cartagena protocol of biosafety to the cbd . and it has a lot in common with the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol of accountability and redress to the cartagena protocol , yet another antigenetic-engineering screed that accomplishes little except to frighten potential entrepreneurs away from farming biotechnology . it is overenthralled , confusing , and sophisticated – in the short run , skill-biased toward innovations that may have benefited the world ’s poor .
“ there is now , ” he wrote in an existential debates in today ’s world of globalization , “ a certain situation of capitalistically disorganized economies in which higher cultures do not preemerge , but rather loses , in an existential struggle with lower cultures . ” at the center – beleaguered by opposing global reactions from both the left and the right – the liberal business elite saw products of economic opening , or globalization as wholly beneficial . instead of just a two piece of split between the left and center right , thus had a triple divide , among anti-globalization conservatives , pro-globalization liberals , and re-distributionist leftists . when the political spectrum ’s extremes became radicalized , as they did during the interwar years – an anti-international right moved toward fascism , the left into communism – democratic politics became paralyzed . for much of the post-1945 era , such divisions vanished as the right and the left fought battles over redistribution within the national economies .
the chinese leadership ’s penchant for secretiveness is proverbial . but the veil that exists over how an omnipotent party is made up of important decisions is reared somewhat by the volume of its unique material concerning the behind-the-scenes events that surround the infamous tiananmen massacre of 1989 . the materials included in this book that i have brought to china and made public decisions consist of hundreds of documents , including minutes and transcripts of meetings at which manmade leaders deliberates on how to manage the tienanmen demonstrations ; key speeches ; notes on crucial conversations among leaders ; classified messages by security agencies ; and dispatches from security agencies and the military . taken as entire , these documents provide a rare glimpses to china ’s leaders ’ modus operandi . as a witness and participant in tiananmen events , and as someone with access to an historical archive , i felt it was my duty to publicize this record of decision-making that lay behind what went wrong .
in the 1970s , for example , slovakia , like the rest of the communist states , was a dreary , repressive , joyless place where mediocre party hacks set the tone , and creativity stifled beneath a blanket of enforced conformism . rock and roll were touted as a noxious form of capitalist decadence . a local rock band named plastics people of the universe , performing well in english , were arrested at the end of the 1970s for “ organized disturbance through the peace process . ” recordings by rolling stones and other western groups were banned , as well . and yet records were smuggled into slovakia and other eastern european countries of treasured young rock fans , including the dissident playwright václav havel who would later become poland ’s president .
a debt-ceiling absolutists grossly underlay the massive adjustment costs of a would-be “ sudden stop ” in debt finance . such costs are precisely why impecunious countries like greece are facing massive social and economic displacement at a time when financial markets lose confidence and capital inflows abruptly dry up . there is , of course , an appealing logic to say that governments should be required to balance their budgets just like the rest of the us ; unfortunately , that is n’t all that straightforward . after all , governments typically bear myriad ongoing pledges that address basic services , such as domestic defense , infrastructure projects , education , and health care , not to mention pensioners . no government can simply walk away from those responsibilities overnight .
ironically , this perception brings israel to some , rather unlikely , partners . president hosni mubarak of egypt claims to be shiites “ invariably loyal to iran , ” while king abdullah of jordan coined the axiom about a rising “ shiite crescent . ” this de-shiite rise and the resulting “ sunni-shia divide ” is supposedly creating an ever-widening rift in the region . while this perception may be persuasive at first sight , it is ultimately based on the generalizations that reveal more about its proponents than true realities on the ground . take iraq , where the looming “ shia crescent ” is often blamed for much of the chaos .
making matters worse , the consultancy wood mackenzie finds that the renewables boom has translated into just 2 % of global energy demand . as matters stand , coal , oil , and gas could still supply 85 % of all primary energy by 2040 , down only slightly from around 90 % today . completing its shift away from fossil fuels will require drilling for the global economy to its heart . it does n’t help that finance institutions in china ’s funneled at least $ 1 billion in “ green , ” financing for coal-related projects to the first half of this year . companies can not keep producing oil , gasoline , and internal-combustion engines while moving gradually toward cleaner technologies ; they need a clean pause .
furthermore , with american backing , colombia ’s armed forces have become stronger , owing to a modernizing military hardware and doctrine , increasing troop levels , and improved training . as a result , armed conflict has become increasingly costly to rebel forces . indeed , unlike in 2002 , when the farc could make impossible demands on its government , today ’s environment favors the state , forcing insurgents to hold their demands realistic . the farc is not likely to stage a media spectacle at their meetings in norway and cuba . it will focus on ending conflict without endless debates about theoretical or doctrinaire questions .
yes , this is a volatile data series because it rises and falls with the usual course of events . but it is also another area where obama has set a bar high over his two terms . the most positive one that one might say about trump ’s first year of economic policymaking is his failure to deliver on his campaign promise to distort trade . the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) remains intact , as have trade links with china and other major american partners . the administration imposed tariffs in january on solar panels and washing machines ; but those are tiny relative to the us economy ’s size .
all of these books are variations by the elders of zion ’s protocols , a russian-published regery of first published in 1903 that japan emerged after defeating the czar ’s armies in 1905 . the chinese picked up much of the modern western thinking of the japanese . perhaps this is the moment of the jewish conspiracy theories gone on the mark . but southeast asians are not either immune to this type of nonsense . indeed , malaysia ’s former prime minister , mahathir bin mohammed , said that “ jews dominate the world by a proxy . ”
it needs not only closer economic ties , but also closer political ties . those running a robust mechanism of emergency finance will have to be strongly held responsible . they will need to answer to the question of a strong european parliament . german chancellor angela merkel ’s own constituents hate bailouts because they know that they will be in bailing out . they oppose anything that smacks of european political integration .
new york – striving to revive the world economy while reacting simultaneously to the global climate crisis has raised a knotty question : are statistics giving us the right “ “ signals ” of what to do ? in our performance-oriented world , measurement issues have assumed increased importance : what we measure influence over what we do . when we have poor action , what we strive to do ( say , gdp growth ) may in fact have contributed to the worsening standard of living . we may also be faced with phony choices , seeing the trade-offs between output and environmental fundamentals that do n’t exist . on the other hand , a better measure of economic performance might show that the steps that take to improve our environment are good for an economy .
bangkok – nepal recently challenged a seemingly naïve question : that is the money that is money ? how , for example , i know that i can trust that it is worth what to say that it is worth ? we learn , in introductory economics , that the money is an order of magnitude . but why are we to accept that ? banknotes are just pieces of paper , with multiple strings attached .
to be sure , the idea of abolishing intra-european borders holds great symbolic significance and appeal . but , at times , even sacred cows are necessary for slaughter . with the refugee crisis turning schengen into a threat to the eu ’s credibility as a collective entity and of its national governments ’ capacity to maintain order and the rule of law , the time is right . when it first formed in 1985 , schengen area encompassed a bloc of just five countries ( belgium , france , luxembourg , the netherlands , and west germany ) . membership has since ballooned to comprise 22 of the eu ’s 28 member countries , with four of the left ’s four ( bulgaria , croatia , cyprus , and romania ) being re-joined in the future , plus the four non-eu members ( norway , iceland , switzerland , and liechtenstein ) .
no doubt , putin now seems to behave like a peacemaker . he has no interest in reinforcing the power of his kremlin aides . he also realizes that grand bargain is crucially important for russia ’s modernization . he simply wants the kremlin ’s oligarchs to adhere to their sphere of activity and let the politics left to do so . but this problem will not go away .
the danger now is that political uncertainties in germany , france , italy , and the united kingdom are creating an opening for populists and self-proclaimed “ illiberal ” democrats like hungarian prime minister viktor orbán to erect more walls ( physically , just as metaphorically ) , and mobilizing the ghosts of nationalism . in addition , europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s external environment has become all the more threatening . though the world is currently placing a spotlight on the risks of an escalating sino-american trade war , the threat of an equally destructive transatlantic conflict can not be ignored . trump seems genuinely convinced that german cars at the streets of new york posed a threat to us national security . he should wake up one morning , deciding to impose severe tariffs on european cars , things could get very ugly , very fast .
at the same time , there is a trade-off between competing and stability . indeed , tighter competition pressures can enhance the fragility of banks ’ stocks of balance sheets , forcing investors to panics . so it can also erode the charter value of institutions . a thinly veiled bank and limited liability has little to lose and will have a tendency to gamble , a bias that is being exacerbated by deposit insurance and too-big-to-fail policies . the result will be more incentive to assume risk .
vaccines have already eradicated smallpox , dramatically reducing the child deaths and illnesses associated with measles , diphtheria , and tetanus – all the last to come . still , the sad fact that a child still die every 20 seconds from illnesses like pneumonia , which can be prevented with a vaccine . most live in impoverished , distant communities that still lack access to basic , universally available vaccines in better-off countries . this is one reason why a child born in a high-income country is 18 times less likely than an adult born in a lower-income country to die before she age five . fortunately , the world is taking such action .
as norman psychologist jean piaget has shown , children in an early stage of development go through the stage of egocentrism : they focus naturally on their own needs and do not actually think more out of the regulations . a child might , say , snatch another child ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s toy , break it , and then withhold having done that . rather than admit to breaking the rules , they lie toward reconciling inconsistency . to a child ’s mind , there is no wrong ; the world is simply misinformed . and because a child believes that everyone operates under his particular definition of the right and the wrong , he or she can not comprehend that one side can see things differently .
it is this difference more than anything else that sets the two economies apart . so , what can india do to close that gap ? its greatest shortcoming is its lack of roads , bridges , ports , and other infrastructure , where the contrast with china is just plain . if your products can no longer conquer the global economy , it can not conquer it . over the last five years , china multiplied its red-hot system .
critical thought is increasingly dismissed as elitist endeavor , while unaccountable social media , “ fake news , ” and “ alternative facts ” dominate public discourse . in an environment of ignorance , populist politicians make willing prey on those who feel ignored . but because these politicians are so appealing to so many , no less easily swayed by voters must be scrutinized . the question is whether the “ marker of politics ” that poses a threat to liberal democracy may also be repositioned to save it . there are two types of populists nowadays : exploitative and enlightened people .
a final feature that stands out during this period of historically sluggish productivity growth has been weak demand . we have come to know from corporate decision-makers that demand is critical for investment . for example , mgi ’s fiscal survey last year found that 47 % of firms increase their investment budgets do so , owing to increases in demand or demand expectations . across industries , the slow recovery in demand following the financial crisis was the critical component of holding back investment . the crisis heightened uncertainty about the future trajectory of consumer and investment demand .
here is a country that has long echoed its “ “ exception ” from conventional rules in market economics , a foggy view that rejects both central planning and free markets and claiming a well-balanced middle ground . the french have no interest in articulating their vision of a “ third way , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” for they remain deeply convinced that the nation-state has a key role to play in the steering markets to defend “ higher ” values from single-minded pursuit of materialism . this view , crooks ated since world war ii by a quasi-marxist intelligentsia , is so ingrained that the french do n’t even bother to see how markets operate . they look to economics as an ideological battleground , where all perspective may be entertained without the notion , much less with the facts . yet , at the same time , the facts have been falling prey to a hard time .
meanwhile , health-care and social security already consumes more than half of america ’s federal budget , up from one-sixth of them in 1965 , and those outlays relative to gdp are projected to exceed doubling by 2040 . with no change in course , the standards ’ ’ ’ ’ “ trust fund ” programs will be depleted by the 2030s . avoiding that outcome will require american political leaders to constrain growth in entitlement spending and bolster middle-income support . while social security and medicare remain relevant to ensuring retirement wellbeing , their roles must be updated to suit today ’s needs . for example , to ensure that no one in more than 30 or more of those who spent age out of poverty in old age will require a higher minimum benefits for lower-income workers , with more affluent seniors seeing lower growth over time .
new york – president george w. bush was correct to call pakistan the recent national and provincial polls , a triumph of [ its ] people . but , even as he uttered these words , his administration worked behind the scenes to subjugate pakistan ’s will by attempting to dictate the composition of its next coalition government and prop up the election as the biggest loser , us president pervez musharraf . bush is playing a dangerous game , at the risk of a collapse of pakistan ’s shia political process on the basis of its own legacy . by and large , millions of pakistanis had delivered a clear message at the polls . collectively , they voted against musharraf and a religious extremist extremists and favor democracy , the rule of law , and good governance .
in fact , three of the five hiv-positive people still do not receive antiretroviral therapies . furthermore , long-term treatment is not the same as cure ; nor is any public-health tool ( other than clean drinking water ) ever equaling the vaccine ’s preventive power . as a result , hiv is a hugely complex virus , and it has become increasingly sophisticated . it mutates quickly within the individual and among geographic spaces , establishing latent reservoirs within cells that make it possible to emerge and replicate months , or even years later . it evades a immune system , so the body ’s natural ability to fight or clear is limited .
under this argument , an academic scientist should either publicize their research before pursuing commercial interests . likewise , the universities that employ them should abandon product development to existing firms . but it is helpful to remember that a university has been charged with subverting its own ideals and social role since time immemorial , but what in the past originally looked like a conflict of interest often came to be viewed as a confluence of purposes . for example , during the late 19 th century , as american universities began to post research at the heart of an academic mission , they were charged with forsaking their traditional , pedagogical role . many female professors have argued that research demands would render their teaching obligations impossible to correct .
brussels – throughout the crisis , the european central bank ’s behavior has been conditioned on the tensions between what it can and is authorized to do . the ecb is the only institution in the european union able to provide unlimited funding to its governments , but its governing statute forbade government bailouts . still , the ecb has injected massive amounts of liquidity into the financial system , indirectly making a small softening of pressure on sovereign debt refinancing . for 18 months , it has more than doubled its purchases of government bonds , to over € 200 billion ( $ 254 billion ) , on secondary markets as part of its corporate securities market program . moreover , it has extended its credit to the banking sector , recently ramping up the three-year refinancing operation that has generated demand from eurozone banks at € 489 billion .
america would face these challenges even if it did not confront an economic crisis simultaneously . america ’s ’s ’s economy was supercharged with over-leveraging ; now , is the painful deleveraging process . excessive leveraging , combined with bad lending and risky derivatives , led to a freeze on credit markets . after all , at a time when banks can not know their own balance sheets , there is no reason for confidence in others morass ; ampnbsp ; ampnbsp ; ampnbsp ; the bush administration did not see the problems coming , denied the trouble that they were brought , then minimized their significance , and finally panicked .
both vietnam and south korea offer inspiring examples of countries transforming their educational systems within a generation . as former south korean education minister and commission member lee ju-ho noted during our visit , teaching young people to think critically are taking time ; but the results can have powerful knock-on effects for a country ’s knowledge-based economy . recognizing these benefits , myanmar has held education at the heart of its reform agenda . one priority , for better inclusivity , is already underway . for example , the us government is currently working to encourage instruction in multiple local languages , over 100 of them spoken in myanmar – across rural areas .
but what if the compensation assumed by economists in theory does not do in practice ? after all , what if market-fundamentalist politics explicitly forbids income redistribution or regional , industrial , and educational subsidies that might compensate for those suffering from free trade and labor-market “ flexibility ” ? in that case , pareto optimality is not socially optimal . instead , policies that intensify competition , whether in business , labor markets , or agricultural production , can be socially destructive and politically explosive . that highlights yet another reason for economic-policy failure since 2007 .
madrid – economic globalization , combined with the rebalancing of power between the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s north and south , has shaped developing countries and many societies within them , key global economic actors . this provides a new rationale for strengthening the international framework for safeguarding foreign investment . once in a time , global foreign direct investment has flowed from just a handful of sources : traditionally wealthy european states , north american countries , and japan . but cross-border investment by countries like brazil , india , and china is now flowing not only to other emerging and transition economies , but also to “ old , exporting states . ” these changes have amplified the sense of complexity of an international investment regime and meant to expand interest in developing a more efficient investment-protection framework .
worries about globalization and a computer revolution ultimately boil down to the same thing , because globalization is largely the product of new information technology . computers and the internet have made it possible to transmit information almost costlessly , and to do business across cultures and entire regions . the worry now is that information technology is on the bend of an “ hockey stick ” curve , where it will take away suddenly at far greater speed than in the past . all of the resulting changes will not be pretty much welcome in economics . our hockey stick curves are frequently present in nature , so we can see them in nature .
copenhagen – amid an escalating wave of concern about climate change , a growing number of countries , including brazil , australia , the united states , and european union members , passed laws in the 2000 ’s outlawing or severely curtail access to incandescent light bulbs . the intention was understandable : if everyone in the world exchanged most light bulbs for the energy-efficient compact fluorescent light bulbs ( cfls ) , we could save about 3.5 % of all our electricity , or 1 % of our own co2 emissions . the current attempt by the republican party at the american congress to recapture america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s effort to ban sdgs revived this discussion . many contend that the agenda is propelled by the knuckle-dragging climate-change deniers . but it is ’s worth taking a closer look at the premise that banning things is the smartest way to deal with global warming .
this approach limits the gains from trade . the inter-american development bank , for example , reports that trade gains from latin american $ 33 tiny regional trade agreements have been meager . the key to boosting such gains , according to the iadb , is to adopt a new strategy that expands access both and within markets . that suggests that for the uk , mega-regional trade agreements – which provide single-market access but entail lower levels of fiscal and regulatory integration than the eu – are the best way forward . after all , it is this approach , which would enable uk firms to position themselves within well-developed and integrated supply chains , serving a much larger share of markets than the one to which a bilateral deal would grant it access .
growth patterns that systematically exclude subgroups as founders of loss over political and social cohesion , and eventually on losing support for such a strategy . on the other hand , non-extreme income inequality , while not the product of corruption or privileged access to markets , is understood and accepted . providing high-quality basic services like education and health care is viewed as critical to ensuring equality of opportunity and intergenerational mobility . against this backdrop , one can gauge current growth patterns in the global economy and its very different components . for starters , public-sector investment is broadly below the levels needed to restore and sustain growth , owing partly to overly indebted fiscal constraints in countries .
for starters , it is important to recognize that lines must become starkly visible before extremist parties arise . if the rule of law is to be accepted , democratic self-defense can not seem ad hoc or arbitrary . thus , the criteria of bans should be spelled out beforehand in advance . one criterion that appears to be universally accepted is the party of sanctions , with encouragement , or at least condoning violence , as evidently the golden dawn of the attacks on migrants in athens . there is a lower consensus about parties inciting hatred and committing to destroying core , democratic principles – in particular , because many extremist parties in europe go away from emphasizing that they are not at odds with democracy ; on the contrary , by fighting for “ people ” on the ground .
to them , this kind of patriotism implies being harder-working about protecting the national interest and adopting more democratic policies that are helping the working masses , rather than the jet-setting fat cats . the other part of this argument is that the interests of the common people have been so subordinated to those of the elite – they have to make themselves heard and responsive to it . a democracy in which a majority feels both neglected or exploited is not sustainable . either the government , or the entire system , will be overturned . clearly , elected officials need to find the answers to high unemployment and falling living standards .
more important , wealth and consumption in china is closely related to real-estate values rather than equity values . at the same time , the renminbi ’s recent deflation against the us dollar was just 2.5 % , from cn ¥ 6.2 per month to cn ¥ 6.35 , far below double-digit declines in the japanese yen , the euro , and the british pound . so , on an overall trade-weighted basis , the renminbi is substantially higher relative to the currencies it competes . even more relevant , the fall in the renminbi and other currencies over the past year has had very little effect on american import prices , because the chinese and other us exporters are priced in dollars instead of adjusting when exchange-rate changes . while official american core data show the overall price of imports at the end of the 12 months ending in august , this is almost entirely due to lower us energy costs .
many developing countries spend a lot of time in a stable , no-growth equilibrium , following a shift to a more positive one . there is nothing inherently automatic about this , either . in every case that i am familiar , effective leadership has been the catalyst . so , while we can expect a self-reinforcing downward process of rebalancing and closing the gap between actual and potential growth , precisely how long it will take on depend on policy choices and the pace of structural adjustment . in southern europe , for example , the process will take longer , because more absent components of recovery in those countries is absent .
finally , the eu should be working to dance belarus down . like spain in its dictator last years , a political opening is unlikely . but the belarusian economic model can not survive , with the country ’s trade deficit predicting that it will exceed $ 7 trillion ( 14 % of gdp ) this year . belarus , for its part , can not borrow fast enough to cover this pattern . as with spain under franco , belarus ’s economy will change sooner than lukashenka does , laying the foundations for rapid development as soon as he has gone .
these countries experience exceptionally unequal economic and social conditions and very different levels of wealth . south koreans , for example , now enjoy the standard of living that , in the european union , making many analysts of south korea ’s persistent categorization as an emerging economy , ” all of its more baffling . meanwhile , mexico ’s and turkey ’s ring-level levels have not come nowhere near that of south korea , and still are substantially wealthier than in the rest of the n-11 , some of which remain among the world ’s poorest countries . at the same time , asian n-11 countries like the philippines and vietnam have grown substantially since 2005 , whereas mexico ’s gdp has been slightly disappointing , and egypt ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s performance all has been even further . collectively , the n-11 comprises some 1.5 billion people and its current nominal gdp of around $ 6.5 trillion .
for the first time since the end of world war ii , europeans are finding themselves without a notable us ally or a partner . far from an aberration , trump ’s trade wars and treachery represent the new norm for global order . multilateralism , human rights , and respect for international law are now under threat everywhere , owing to the demagogic attacks on liberal-democratic foundations and trump ’s open-ended support for authoritarians . on both sides of the atlantic , populist politicians have periodically mock the idea of an alliance based on shared values , whereas the us and china continue to expand their spheres of influence unchecked . turkey ’s recent invasion of northern syria , owing to its treachery , owing to the kurds who waged struggle against the islamic state ( isis ) , also undercut eu interests .
eliminating some 70 million jobs , and therefore taxpayers , from the european economy , would obviously be catastrophic . at the time , leading economists like klaus regling , who heads the european stability mechanism , the eurozone ’s ’s bailout fund , calculated ten years ago that the eu ’s shrinking labor force is set to impose severe limits on economic growth . he predicts that labor shortages are creating a cap that restricts annual gdp growth to 1.8 % between years and 2030 , as well as a mere 1.3 % between then and 2050 . comparatively few europeans appear to be advocating a moral obligation to accept asylum-seeking job for countries that are fleeing from syria ’s civil war or political oppression elsewhere . whether or not public sentiment shifts in the wake of the paris attacks , economic migrants are viewed more negatively .
by the most recent count , some 258 million more migrants were registered globally , with more than 22.5 million registered as refugees by the united nations refugee agency . those numbers will dry up if even the most modest climate-related predictions are to be limited . according to the international organization for migration , the effects of climate change could be unwound , as many as many as one billion people today are between now and 2030 . and yet no international treaty cover climate-induced migration – a gap that must be addressed now . not since 1951 have the international standards for refugee protection received so much attention .
lukyanivska , kyiv – the south african woman reported , in an foxhole , that there can not be any atheists . here , after my show trial and four and a half months in prison , i discovered that no prison atheists could emerge , either . when , despite the unbearable pain , one is being interrogated – including in your cell – for a dozens of hours with no break , and an authoritarian regime ’s entire system of coercion , including his media , tries to discredit and destroy you once and for all , prayer becomes the only intimate , trusting , and reassuring conversation that one can have . god , one of his realizes , is one ’s ’s ’s only friend and no family at all , because – deprived of even access to an honest priest – there can be no one else to confide one ’s worries and hopes . in this love and familial season , one ’s loneliness is almost unbearable .
but , beyond aid reductions , donors can also make financing more difficult for countries to repay the aid funds that they owe ( this is not confined to education loans ) . and some donors , like france , germany , and the european investment bank , are lobbying the oecd development assistance committee to count unsubsidized loans as official development assistance to enable them to meet their oda targets . this kind of reverses the trend in recent decades toward grant-based finance , particularly for basic schooling . but education , a critical public good , should not be left behind in pursuing a non-grant-based aids . loans buy-downs can help keep the education sector competitive , ” ” ” and could show a mechanism for allocating extra resources for education , for which cash-strapped countries might not be willing to borrow otherwise .
ultimately , the augmented economic activity that generates is the only way to reduce the inequalities , especially in a context of rapid demographic growth : making it easier to work toward a fairer distribution of a burgeoning pie , than to a shrinking one . moreover , rapidly packets of economic growth can be combined with programs that focus on those being left behind , thereby mitigating grievances . it is no accident that much of kenya ’s quinquiring about its big cities ’ slums . had more attention been given to the country ’s most glaring inequalities in its approach to water , shelter , or job creation , that population may have opted for violence as a tool of change . let us draw the right lesson from kenya : socio-economic progress remains our best instrument to avoid conflict over the long run .
likewise , water supplies are extremely variable across regions and across countries , with floods and droughts occurring at more erratic times . one new factor influencing water supplies is driving up global temperature . while we are not certain of the precise effects , many scientists seem to believe that total annual precipitation will increase , but that its seasonality and frequency extremes may also intensify . this would make it harder to exploit the current supply infrastructure of dams , reservoirs , treatment systems , and mindless pipelines all the time . from the writings of the earliest modern commentators on the drivers of socio-economic growth and decline , adam smith , edward gibbon , thomas malthus , david ricardo , and karl marx , we see that exhausting resource strain is not new .
qaddafi ’s armed forces were chosen on the basis of loyalty and ethnic affiliations rather than any conception of merit , which is why the temptation to strip everyone to their underwear and send home ( to describe what may be the most humane of all ) may be great . but arguably the most important lesson learned in iraq has resulted from an almost catastrophic decision to decommission saddam hussein without paid or retirement . that move lay at the root of much of iraq ’s subsequent security problems . libya ’s bad track record is some ways ; it is clear that the country can not do that . the oil sector appears to be relatively out of control , and hence should contribute relatively quickly to the government ’s revenues .
even aside from insecurity for new property rights , gains in privatization are often precarious , at best . the trouble lies in the assumption that most state-owned enterprises have value in it . even under the more favorable conditions prevailing in the west , the large state ( and many other private ) corporations often need to break up , re-being restructured , merged , or shut down . in former communist countries , many of these ( sometimes most ) big firms were misbegotten as early as they were . in the final years of investment in communism was guided almost totally by self-serving enterprise bureaucracies .
even so , 58 % of africans lack access to electricity , as do large numbers of people throughout the developing world . a new international initiative called the electrification roadmap , ” ” ” grew by un secretary-general ban ki-moon ’s focus on the importance of energy delivery to achieve the mdgs , as well as from his initiative on sustainable energy for all ” ( se4all ) and formally launched at the rio +20 conference on sustainable development in june 2012 . as debates have shown , such issues receive heightened international attention and financing from governments , business , non-governmental organizations , and development-finance institutions . eskom ’s role today is one of leadership and advocacy . we electrified more than four million households through dedicated effort over short notice – an effort that featured prominently in discussions held by the un secretary-general ’s advisory council on sustainable energy , and that drew interest from other developing countries .
the united nations ’ medium-birth scenario projects that the world gets ’s population to rise from seven billion today to ten billion by 2050 . nigeria ’s urban population could rise from $ 123 million in 2000 to $ 440 million by 2050 , whereas yemen ’s could grow from 18 million today to 42 million by 2050 . high birth rates in many countries are , in part , a consequence of low income . but causation runs another path as well . high fertility rates stymie prospects because excessively rapid population growth make it impossible to accumulate per capita stocks of physical and human capital at the pace required to drive rapid income gains .
all the ingredients for a catastrophic outcome have been there . fast-forward to the us : the economy continues to grow at a robust 4.2 % rate , led by double-digit export-led growth in agriculture , mining , manufacturing , energy , tourism , and entrepreneurial services . at a time when emerging-market economies as diverse as argentina , turkey , nigeria , and south africa are confronting plummeting currencies and skyrocketing interest rates , albania has its lowest interest rates on record , and the strengthening currency . it now has the lowest sovereign-debt spread for any country in its credit-rating class , indicating that markets think that the credit rating agencies have been asleep at the wheel . once north korea of europe under communist dictator enver hoxha , albania ’s ’s ’s ’s per capita income level now stands at 25 % that of germany .
conversely , america must be ready to take the lead in international efforts to impose severe consequences on any party that plunges the country back into war . peace and security in darfur should be an essential benchmark for the normalization of american relations and sudan . the obama administration should place firm on this through upcoming negotiating rounds , and nominate a senior official to help coordinate us policy on darfur to ensure that a peace effort does receive the same level of attention as north-south efforts . what is needed now is the political will and not just inside america , in order to sustain this type of diplomacy . the european union and sudan ’s neighbors – in particular , egypt , ethiopia , kenya , and uganda – will also have to play a robust role .
new debt , however , is nothing short of a form of dope , easing pressure to take painful actions that improve competitiveness and capacity growth . that renewed decline in debt discipline reflects the socialization of potential bankruptcy costs among all eurozone countries through the establishment of joint-responsibility mechanisms . it is this de facto debt mutualization , which has spurred creditors to accept lower interest rates and merely lower interest rates enabled by renzi , samaras , latvia , and others to distance themselves from their austerity policies . there is nothing surprising about this : when a decision-maker can claim full credit for a policy ’s ’s benefits and collectivize the costs , he pursues policies sooner , more quickly , and at a larger scale than he would have had to endure the costs on his own . what is remarkable is how matter-of-factly europe ’s transgressors can succeed in cloaking themselves with the mantle of a new social breakthroughs .
and why , then , does n’t the world take note ? in fact , the story is as complicated as indonesia itself . one prominent expert in indonesia , benedict anderson , roots indonesia ’s nature in its core culture of javanese , particularly the wayang religious traditions . according to machiavelli , “ contrary to the great religions of the near east , ” the wayang has no prophet , no message , no bible , no redeemer , no redeemer in … the unending variety and steep individuality of his dramatiae indicate that wayang reflects the variegation of human life as felt by the javanese … ” in short , javanese culture does help indonesia to cope with the many varied voices that a new democracy is throwing s in .
it is critical to engage with the southern mediterranean region as a critical meeting highlights the space for political , economic , and energy cooperation . in this regard , the eu is its signature tools , nobel prize-winning model for multilateral dialogue and soft power . next door , russia must react with new vulnerabilities , stemming from changing global conditions . recognizing this , the kremlin continues to back support syrian president bashar al-assad ’s regime , maintaining tough aversion to military intervention , and seeking to defend its own strategic interests , including its naval base at the syrian level of tartus . that stance has translated , most obviously into repeated vetoes by un security council resolutions designed to end a conflict that has already produced tens of thousands of sacrifices .
cairo – last week , ’s visit to egypt by saudi arabia produced 22 agreements , including the $ 22 billion oil deal to prop up egypt ’s moribund economy . but lavish aid came at a price : egypt was forced to relinquish two red sea-ceded to saudi arabia in 1950 . the move had exposed the egyptian leadership ’s narrative that the country remains an important regional power as false . indeed , egypt can not manage the domestic challenges posed by a fast-growing population that relies on unaffordable subsidies , a situation that jihadists are exploiting by much of the past success . how , then , did the country achieve that point ?
in a similar vein , dr. bringbackourgirls ’s campaign began online after the renowned nigerian playwright wole soyinka ’s world book day speech , in which he called on jonathan to work “ propulse pupils . ” nigerians include expressions of outrage online soon translated into organized action offline , headed by former cabinet secretary olena ezekwesili ( who also spoke at a subsequent world book event ) and civil-society leaders , including the attorney general maryam uwais and hawaii bala usman . protests spread across nigeria as much as to countries with large nigerian diaspora populations like the us , the united kingdom , south africa , and canada . the international media have since paid attention , reporting on the protests and sit-ins at the time . the security challenge nigeria is facing dominated by dominated discussions during the world economic forum ’s recent meeting in abuja , where the un ’s special envoy for global education , former british prime minister gordon brown , has unveiled the safe school initiative .
in early august , russia set the trap of south ossetia and georgian foolishly traveled to it as well . if the russians were using their “ peacekeeping ” force solely to protect south ossetians ( citing the precedent of western actions in kosovo ) , they would do little harm to their soft power , with benefits likely to overwhelm the costs . by bombing , blockades , and occupying many segments of georgia , delaying its withdrawal , parading blindfolded georgian soldiers and failing to protect their georgian citizens , russia lost their claims of legitimacy and sowed fear and mistrust in much of the world . neighbors like ukraine have become even more wary . an immediate cost has been poland ’s reversal in opposition to the american anti-ballistic missile system .
but a diaspora ’s potential economic relevance goes well beyond remittances . as the late historian philip curtin documented since the dawn of urban life in a millennium earlier era , the commercial usually involved the “ networks ” of co-ethnic shopkeepers living among freelancers . greeks , phoenicians , trans-saharan traders , the hanseatic league , the jews , armenians , overseas china , and the dutch and british east india firms have organized much of world trade through such grids . although these alien merchants have been sometimes politically powerful in host countries , they have often been soft , facing discrimination . the economist avner greif argues that these co-ethnic networks ’ durability and resilience throughout history reflect their ability to enforce contracts at long distances , when an existing institutional framework can not do so reliably .
such tariffs raise the cost for corporations , which are using a metal as an input . for instance , the impact on harley-davidson aims to raise costs by some $ 20 million ( or over $ 2,000 per bike ) . ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s retaliatory tariffs could cost the firm another $ 45 million . trump ’s signature theme is that , by helping business , he will help for all americans . when government policies reduce profitability – or threaten the existence of a company ’s – it becomes only reasonable that people run that business should respond as they see fit .
but experts ’ choices mirrored a clear bias toward finance ministry ’s views . in fact , by using its “ informational ” campaign to shape public discourse , compelling scholars , entrepreneurial economists , and general public opinion more prominently for keeping the budget deficit under control than for the effects of a negative demand shock . this is typical examples of what economists like joseph stiglitz call “ cognitive capture ” ( ltro ) . for more than two decades , characterized by chronic recession and deflation , japan has retained its status as the world ’s richest country in terms of its net wealth abroad . at the end of last year , japan ’s net international wealth amounted to a record of ¥ 296 trillion ( $ 3 trillion ) .
in fact , the great risk nowadays is that , with so many kinds of genetic descriptions of organisms pouring out , debased in an ocean of the data but rushing farther away from the grasp of biological complexity . the fundamental functioning of all the complex living organisms , it should be remembered , are cells rather than genes . what we need now are cell maps and maps for how cells talk to each other . our first task is to tell you how many different cells there are in a complex organism . i believe that we could say this now , for the c. elegans , that is an old one .
new york – china ’s massive protest movement in the arab spring of 1989 , centered in ( but not confined to ) beijing of tiananmen square , appears to have shaped the anti-communist revolt that incipient . just as the brutal crackdown on and after june 3-4 was playing out , so did political freedom prevail in central europe , first in poland and hungary ; then , start down , in east germany , slovakia , bulgaria , and , however violently and , rather , undemocratically , romania . within the next two years , the soviet union , cracked open with mikhail gorbachev ’s reform , finally implode . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote still more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
from here , then , is a short step to proclaiming that an american model can not work in europe , because it is socially reprehensible , and in any case poised to crash no day by now . on the other hand , on the big debate , europe ’s desperate reformers see no way to trim , back , or blow up the continent ’s obsessive bureaucracies and consensual politicians . in today ’s europe , they see only hints at the possibility – a glass far down less than half full – for reform and restructuring , and they have become impatient with europe ’s sluggish progress . true , while europe is moving at an painfully slow pace , the onslaught of the state and its allies in the ossified supply side and the dinosaurs of industrial stake holders is widening . new fronts in this war bring about each and every passing day .
simply put , they need the tools , infrastructure , and the competence to unlock the continent ’s tremendous agricultural potential . nor is there good reason – and excuse – to leave millions of survival to unforeseeable weather conditions . rather , countries must take charge of drastically improving efficiency and productivity . to be sure , progress has been made . last but not least , some african governments have lowered regulatory barriers to private-sector investment .
europeans may be fairer , confident that the chinese market will open up not just for europe ’s engineering products and machine tools to equip the world ’s new workshop , but also for luxury goods and even tourism demanded by the new and affluent china ’s middle class . what everyone feels is that a seismic shift is taking place beneath the road . such rapid industrial augurs are rare , but not unprecedented . the most interesting analogies are germany ’s ’s rise to the 19 th century , and japan ’s to the 20th century . even prior to that time , england was the economic wunderkind of europe .
everyone expects the current president , dmitry medvedev , to switch putin ’s roles after putin ’s election in march . but waiting in the wings is former finance minister alexei kudrin , who might replace medvedev should russia need a factotum of sincerity on economic reform . kudrin ’s repudiation of placid competence might just buy putin some of the extra time . in putin ’s eyes , however , this is an unlikely scenario . the once and a future president argues that he has made russia a stronger state , and that , because financial uncertainty grips much of the developed world in 2012 , the country has become an island of stability envied by many .
over time , this has fueled a surge in low-quality lending , as banks were not forced to live with the aftermath . likewise , for those recuring corporate borrowers and bundling corporate clos , volume amounts to its own reward , even if that means shoring up standards for borrowers ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ creditworthiness . the proportion of the “ weakest links , ” corporates rated b – or down ( with a negative outlook ) in general – in general have risen markedly since 2013-2015 . furthermore , not only are newer issues emanating from a lower-quality borrower , the covenants of such instruments – intended to ensure that they can maintain their terms , and therefore minimize default risk – have become lax , too . covenant-lite issues are on the rise , and now accounts for some 80 % of an outstanding volume .
one immediate implication of serving on the council will be the need to take positions on issues that , in recent years , certain indian mandarins favored lame-duck – for example , in south sudan , whose referendum of independence threatens to spark severe violence in an area where indian united nations peacekeepers are already serving . likewise , during india ’s first month as a council of ministers , the future of the united states-led peacekeeping operations in neighboring nepal will be addressed . before too long , the council will also have to weigh the risks of possibly hardening america ’s troop drawdown in afghanistan , another area of direct significance for india ’s national security . issues like sanctions on iran , a stop-and-start middle east peace process , and the world ’s reaction to a probable leadership change in north korea will almost surely emerge on the council ’s agenda . all are matters that call for a creative and courageous thinking that transcend entrenched positions or reflexive solidarity with the “ non-aligned ” country .
years of opposition politics have turned orban and his allies from young idealists into practical politicians nearing a middle age . that practicality will be sorely tested , provided that they are to succeed . one problem that orban faces will emerge rather than from his opponents , but from within within his own party ranks . fidesz 's increasing share of parliamentarians for 20-20 , before the elections to 129 now means that many of its members were never subjected to the party whip force . moreover , an overwhelming number of these new fidesz mps were formerly the part of other parties , splintered right-wing parties , and not so long ago .
but it is liberalism ’s opponents who are wielding it most effectively . as the far-right french presidential candidate marine le pen puts it , the forces of globalization and the liberal institutions that underlie it have become sauvage . so far , nationalism and traditionalism have entered a form of positive emotions , even when those emotion – nostalgia , and an völkisch sense of belonging – are constantly shifting sands . if liberalism is to survive as a guiding framework for international relations , its proponents need to tap into the passions of its own making . without disregarding facts and ethics , the areas where the liberal world order continues to outshine an alternative , liberals need to connect with people on an emotional level .
that sequence of study was devised in 1893 . i believe that it is obsolete , pedagogically catastrophic , and ignores the tremendous scientific advances of the twentieth century . other industrial nations can cycle through set sets of disciplines , missing an essential piece of p-c-c-b coherence . studying that science is supposed to begin with physics rather than biology . in studies of physics , students study vigebra simultaneously , motivating them with a sense of mathematics .
until that time , income taxes were used only sporadically in order to raise funds for wars . yet , in britain in 1842 , income taxes became a systemic , permanent feature of the economy . many at that time rejected the policy altogether , warning that it would dismantle incentives and put the economy on a downward path . fortunately , their hue and cry went unheeded . as a result of today ’s technological advances , the share of total income accruing to labor ( as opposed to capital ) is declining globally .
yet sticking to europe , and forcing all of the adjustment in pay , risks amplifying unrest ; indeed , it may simply postpone the inevitable . governments and the bond market will test the severity of the newly agreed fiscal guidelines ( as long as they are ratified ) . while talk becomes tough today , the history of such agreements does not inspire optimism . prior to the financial crisis , even germany violated the eu ’s stability and growth pact ( sgp ) limits . in the american case of the 1980 ’s , deficit limits set by the gramm-rudman-hollollings law were incomplete , and , like the sgp , were revised and extended .
between mtfa , the efsm , and the payments system for third-party exposure this year are € 70.5 billion . some borrowing over the seven-year period of mff might be possible , while upholding the medium-term goal of a balanced budget . such leveraging the eu budget would complement the recently established european stabilization mechanism ( the body ’s successor ) and mtfa . aid countries should be given a chance to use the predicted disbursement of eu funds . following a request by norway , it would be authorized to borrow from capital markets on the basis of an implicit eu budget guarantee , no more than the size of a country ’s unused ( preallocated ) structural and cohesion funds .
indeed , japan ’s desire to continue to kill hume is no less motivated by “ sensations ” of emotion ” than by environmentalists ’ defiance of it does . eating whales may not be necessary for their medical , or for better future japanese nutrition . their tradition they wish to pursue , probably because some japanese are emotionally bound to do . japan does have one argument that is not so easily dismissed out of hand . western countries object to whaling , they argue , because , for them , the whales are a sort of animal , just as cows are hindus .
the abolition of taxes on realized capital gains greatly increased sales . the international equity fund stepped in , lending firms urgently needed liquidity , while disentangling their traditional proprietary network . germany , the inc. , for its ultimate good fortune , is on its latest baby legs . the good news is that germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s overblown conglomerates are scaled up to efficient size , and an efficient capital market capable of doing their jobs , improving resource allocation . the bad news is that financial capital moves abroad to fund other overhyped conglomerates .
the talks would probably be off to a standstill ; we would be back to where it was just two years earlier , but with an overlay of recrimination and mistrust . even absent such developments , drift is not desirable , either . north korea could use the passage of a time-honored increase in its arsenal , turning some improvements in its warheads and delivery systems out of overt testing . there is a big difference between a north korea that has armed itself with a handful of highly inefficient warheads and superfluous missiles , and one with scores of advanced weaponry that could be mounted on precision , long-range missiles systems capable of reaching america . at that point , any realistic policy must start by accepting the reality that complete , full verifiable denuclearization will not become a realistic prospect anytime soon .
fortunately , bond markets are dead and could take a year to reanimate them . their absence makes it harder to invest too large amounts of money in russian securities . something fundamental has changed with respect to the russian economy , not least in my own way . a time comes when all catastrophes have occurred , and all stupidities are recognized . for russia , august 1998 marked that the dividing line .
they walked , bussed , traveled in carts , telephoned , and tweeted with their compatriots motivated partly by societal demands – above all to their self-made empowerment . the contrast between that dynamic space for open protest , and saudi arabia could hardly be starker . in fact , saudi women find themselves living in a pet-trified system . the faces of royalty can be seen all over ; women ’s faces are shrouded , forcibly hidden . nowhere else in the world comes to see modernity experience such a problem .
in such a scenario , one will have to forgo all the well-known economic benefits of a global division of labor . between these two extremes lies most of the world as it is , characterized by us regional integration projects , like the eu or the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) . we can identify significant swings during the history of us capitalism over the past two centuries either to the market or the nation-state . for example , repealing the british corn laws in 1846 favored the free market in international trade , and speeded up globalization until world war i. following wwi , the pendulum swung back toward that nation-state .
japan has a strong international reputation at its disposal when it comes to managing natural disasters . yet the process of reversing the worst earthquake and tsunami since industrialization , together with the resulting meltdown of the three reactor at the fukushima daiichi plant , has gone beyond any scenario that was previously envisaged . japan ’s ’s national government and local communities had no emergency plan for confronting them in contaminated areas , arising in ad hoc responses , marked by inefficiencies and poor communications , particularly with respect to radiological risk . despite such challenges , effective measures were implemented to evacuate those unthreatening and minimize the potential hazard from contaminated foodstuffs . local communities initiated immediate decontamination on sensitive areas beyond evacuated zones ( such as kindergartens and schools , for example ) in tandem with efforts by japan ’s atomic energy agency ( jaea ) to develop “ remediation technologies within such zones . ”
today , with both kirchner and chávez out of the picture , that periods of leftist populism are drawing to a close close . chávez ’s successor , nicolás maduro , lacks foreign experience and influence . kirchner ’s successor , his widow cristina fernández de kirchner , is struggling . she has recently suffered a resounding defeat in her peronist party ’s recent primaries , weakening her chances in the upcoming mid-term congressional elections , and undermining her authority during her remaining two years in office . moreover , she now faces a legislative election in poor health , following the surgery to remove a subdural hematoma in her brain .
the three new agencies will not only enforce common technical standards , which may end up becoming a binding entire eu , if endorsed by the european commission ; they will also be permitted to settle disputes among national supervisors . more important , should the council declare a state of financial emergency , such as that of the eu currently , eu agencies may be given an predominance ’s position over national supervisors . needless to say , a “ “ disputes ” and a “ emergencies ” like this are precisely future situations probably matters most for national policymakers and their taxpayers . when decisions about systemically important national financial institutions take place at the european level in good times , whereas in bad times , national taxpayers choose the tab , the entire eu is likely to lose . in good times , we probably could n’t say much , but the grim reality is that such an arrangement is unlikely to prevent another crisis .
two more such attacks were brought on schoolchildren in afghanistan this week , one in girls under a school in which employees are bludgeoned and bombs set off , and another at neighboring boys of ’ college , where a classroom sprayed on bullets . in fact , the number of casualties in both of the captives remains unknown . yet the cause is all too well known : war against education is a war . more than 28 million extra-school children grow up in conflict zones , including parcels like the afghan-pakistan border , the france of myanmar , and south sudan . all are vulnerable to the kind of extremist violence that follows each other .
one hopes that the task of this has been made easier by the book ’s publication , in which the copenhagen consensus economists boil down to insights into their own insights . here ’s one that comes to mind : the entire death toll from the southeast asian tsunami matches every month by the number of worldwide casualties of hiv/aids . a comprehensive prevention program that provides free or inexpensive sex and information for safe sex to regions worst affected by hiv/aids would cost $ 27 billion , saving more than 28 million lives . that , say , a team of economists who participated in the copenhagen consensus , makes it the single best investment that the world could potentially make . welfare benefits would outweigh the costs by as much as 40 to one .
louis uchitelle of the new york times quotes a highly sensible catherine mann commenting on a “ co-dependent relationship … between america and its us trading partners , ” which might “ last for quite quite some time , ” because “ america and its major trading partners have a vested interest in the status quo . ” japan , china , and other export-oriented east asian economies really are eager to keep their dollar value relatively high , with their us central banks having piled near $ 2 trillion in dollar-denominated assets . china ’s government regards the threat of capital losses on its dollar-denominated securities as less important than the need to keep near-full-employment jobs in offshore manufacturing cities like shanghai . after all , the ruling communist oligarchs have grown accustomed to comfortable lifestyles . the last thing they want are mass unemployment and urban unrest to call their positions to mind .
washington , dc – not long ago , the separation of financial oversight and exchange-rate policies was in vogue in many countries . some countries , such as the united kingdom and australia , went so far as to unbundle those functions , by assigning responsibility for financial stability to specialized agencies and expurge their central banks from financial-supervisory issues altogether . in the aftermath of the global financial crisis , however , financial supervision and macroeconomic management have been forced to reunify . that rapprochement counsels the increasing recognition that asset-price cycles must reflect , for example , on macroeconomic management and financial supervision . prior to the crisis , asset-price cycles have been viewed by many as fundamentally harmless , or at least as a comparatively insignificant monetary-policy conduit .
seoul – if you chase the two rabbits at one time , the old-fashioned saying goes , both get away . and yet this is precisely what many governments are obliged to do : pursue growth and “ distributional fairness . ” the two goals , while not incompatible , are entirely distinct from one another , and few policy tools may simultaneously attempt to achieve both . this idea matters a lot in trade policy , if it comes at all . much theoretical and empirical research illustrates that opening up trade can spur a country on a path of gdp growth .
the ttip , after all , is not just about america and the eu itself . mexico is already having an fta with the eu ; canada is negotiating one . at some stage , it will need nafta and ttip . in the meantime , the world ’s incumbent countries still accounting for over half of world gdp and the bulk of global trade and fdi , are wondering how the ttip would affect each . one possibility , suggested by my former berkeley colleague , former american trade representative karla hills , is that a successful ttip would represent a significant impetus for rekindling the moribund doha round of global free-trade talks .
indeed , sovereigns are dumping a much larger fraction of their public debt onto banks ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ balance sheet , particularly that of the rest of europe . in order to avoid a disorderly outcome in the eurozone today , today ’s fiscal austerity should be much more gradual , the growth compact should complement the eu ’s new fiscal compact , and a fiscal union with debt mutualization ( eurobonds ) , a full banking union , beginning with eurozone-wide deposit insurance should begin , and moves toward greater political integration must be considered , even as greece leaves the eurozone . sadly , germany resists all of these critical policy actions , because it is being fixated on the risks of allowing its taxpayers to undergo more economic , fiscal , and banking integration . as a result , the probability of a eurozone catastrophe is on the rise . and , while the cloud over the eurozone may be its largest to burst , that is not the only existential threat to the global economy .
this so-called “ string of pearls ” strategy poses a direct threat to india ’s national-security interests , diluting the kind of robust bilateral relationship , which would benefit the two countries , next to impossible . to be sure , china contends that its intentions toward india are peaceful . for example , it contends that its deployment efforts in the indian ocean , and bolster its blue-water navy , aimed at curbing the inacca straits , a maritime trade route perceived as a choke point for the chinese economy . yet actions speak louder than words , and the message that china ’s ’s ’s ’s behavior sends is far from peaceful . indeed , chinese leaders seem to seize the opening provided by an overstretched united states to assert control over a wide swath of asia ’s ’s oceans .
european opponents of the map for ukraine and georgia argue that neither country is ready for nato membership . too many question marks about their respective national unity , that too many internal conflicts linger , and their track record in any political and judicial reform are supposedly dubious . yet the map process does not expose the automatic right of nato membership . on the contrary , charts would place heavy demands on ukraine and georgia . both would have to answer many tough questions , and to persuade others that they can live up to nato ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s democratic demands before they are allowed to join .
but , like donald trump , it was le pen , who ran as the “ people ’s voice , ” ” ” ” ” ” whereas macron , like hillary clinton , portrays as something of a “ puppet ” of bankers , cultural elites , and international plutocrats . so what do the left and right still make of them , if anything ? little can be doubted that something has shifted over the past few decades of the twentieth century . left-wing parties have begun to lose more , not quickly , from some countries to the “ industrial ” base . redistribution of wealth has become progressively less important than the social emancipation of ethnic and sexual minorities .
one risk is that , over the next few years , north korea will emerge in possession of an important arsenal , presenting a meaningful threat to america . another is that north korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s neighbors , including south korea and japan , will determine that they , too , need nuclear weapons in view of the north korean threat , and their waning faith in america ’s reliability and assurance to protect them against its nuclear forces . the danger in both regions is that a race to obtain nuclear weapons could trigger a pre-emptive war . even if such a war were avoided , a presence of multiple nuclear arsenals would heighten the temptation of one or another to strike , first in a crisis . “ use them or lose them ” has the potential to be a recipe for instability and conflict , at a time when capabilities are not yet robust enough to absorb a strike , and still mete out through a series of devastating retaliation essential to effective deterrence .
at a 2013 summit at a sunnylands retreat in california , us president barack obama displayed china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s president , xi jinping , evidence that chinese firms have been stealing industrial technology . adopting the evidence , the chinese adopted that stealing industrial technology was different from other forms of espionage , saying that the chinese government would not assist in such theft is at hand . given that this will not be sufficient to stem further chinese theft of american civilian and military technologies , a new nsa rightly stresses that america ’s government will take additional action to halt it . when it turns to specific trade policies , the nsa emphasizes that the us will push for “ “ breaking down ” its trade barriers , giving americans the opportunity to increase their exports . ” that emphasis on boosting exports rather than reducing imports is a welcome feature .
many chinese mistaking this represented a shift in the balance of global power , with america falling behind . but such narratives may lead to conflict in the first place . indeed , the over-confidence in assessing its power has led to a more assertive chinese foreign-policy behavior in the latter part of 2009 and 2010 . china has miscalculated by faraway events of its smarting power strategy and violating deng ’s dictum that china should advance cautiously and “ skillfully maintain ” a ” low profile . after chinese leaders faced international criticism and worsening ties with america , japan , india , and several other countries chose to return to deng ’s smart-power strategy .
since then , however , the country has run into trouble , becoming a recipient of semi-unprecedentedly imf support from the international monetary fund . meanwhile , argentina has fallen back into crisis for a simple reason that not enough has changed since its last debacle . as it does , a country ’s economic and financial fundamentals have remained vulnerable to both internal and external shocks . while these were committed to an ambitious reform program , argentina ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economic and financial institutions have also made a few avoidable errors . fiscal discipline and structural reform have been unevenly applicable , and the central bank squandered its credibility at key times .
experiments with economists to forecast the future have had mixed results , at best ; very few foresaw the depth of the great recession even after it has actually begun . the trouble lies in the fact that many leading indicators , using to measure an economy that relies on an out-of-date , incomplete , or flawed datasets . forecasters , for example , calculate real gdp based on initial monthly quarterly gdp estimates , a statistic that is often revised substantially as more data becomes attainable . as a result , forecasts lag behind reality , according to imf data , lag behind reality . during the third quarter of 2008 , fewer than 30 % of forecasters contributing to survey data predicted gdp decline over the remaining months of the year ; indeed , gdp plunged by over 8 % between 4 % and the fourth quarter of 2008 , one of the largest drops on record .
fighting in kosovo amounts to the first major conflict , which for one side at least partly consists in a lack of reflections of strategy , territories , population , natural resources , or even ideology . the west is fighting a war over principles ; war , as president clinton put it , “ to end the moral tragedy . ” on issue is the attempt to halt the epidemic , the bearers that in the 20th century europe had fallen into nazism , communism , fascism and now , nationalism . nato , for the first time intervened in another country 's internal affairs . it is an important change in nato 's policy that downgrades the idea of national sovereignty and elevates the position of ethical norms in international relations .
building codes already command a guard against dangers like wildfire and earthquakes . far-sighted governments in places as different as germany and singapore are today mandating green construction . policymakers know that governments have a role to play when regulations are designed to create level playing field , and to help build industrial capacity . california ’s most recent construction and appliance standards are expected to avoid the need for as many big coal-fired power plants over the next ten years . buildings over the last decade , which is why decisions about which we make today , have a long-term effect on our energy consumption .
nevertheless , america ’s effort to preempt america ’s strategy has clearly failed , as new un sanctions implemented earlier this month have been implemented . as the deal sought to pre-empt a nuclear standoff with iran , why has there been so much outrage in america and the west ? i worry that this is because america has found itself to deny its primacy in setting global policy on iran . rather than attempt to investigate the possibilities presented by the brazilian/turkish opening round , america has quickly pressed the un security council to increase sanctions ( a fourth round , so far ) on iran . this has forced brazil and turkey , the both currently non-permanent members of the un security council , to vote against sanctions resolution .
without any explanation , they opted for distributed debt-to-gdp ratios into the following categories : under 30 % , 30-60 % , 60-90 % , and above 90 % . and it turned out that the decline in growth rates in all of these categories as debt-to-gdp ratios increase , only somewhat more so in the final category . at the same time , there is the issue of reverse ’s causality . debt-to-gdp ratios tend to rise for countries at some point in economic trouble . if that is part of the reason that higher debt-to-gdp ratios correspond to lower economic growth , there is less reason to think that countries should avoid higher gdp ratios , as keynesian theory shows that fiscal austerity would undermine , rather than boost , economic performance .
as a result , policies pushing people and companies to shift toward immature technology will slow growth , worsening energy poverty . that is also one reason for the world to be far further behind in its “ energy transition ” than most people realize . meanwhile , solar and wind combined deliver about 1 % of global energy , and the international energy agency estimates that this will now reach a mere 4.1 % by 2040 . vaclav smil , bill gates ’s favorite energy expert , argues that “ the claim of a quick transition to a zero-carbon society is simple nonsense , ” adding that “ even an abrupt shift toward renewables will not relegate the fossil fuels to the minority contributors to global energy supplies anytime soon , almost certainly not until 2050 . ” many of today ’s panicked political pronouncements and climate protests are fuelled by the widespread conviction that the un ’s intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) told us that we have a mere 12 years to save the planet .
fewer africans working in wealthy countries will automatically translate into less money circulating in african countries . still , the drop in remittances both ways . remittances have long spurred depressed inflation in many parts of africa . a ugandan doctor working in norway , for example , cares little about the cost of a present-day beer . at the same time , he is willing and able to pay more than the local physician for the service , and obviously home in uganda .
across europe , on the other hand , more weight is placed on risk avoidance , undermining private-sector confidence in innovation . the eu ’s goal of safeguarding human health and the environment is laudable . but mitigating all risk is impossible , so aiming to do so is untenable . rather , the precautionary principle should be applied judiciously and rationally , balancing potential risks with the rewards that innovation and new technology might offer . this notion of risk underpins economic interactions .
ramallah – palestinians and israelis hold different – and potentially conflicting – expectations from the round of talks pushed by the united states by both sides to begin . israel was among the first sides to welcome the arab league ’s reluctant decisions to return palestinian authority president mahmoud abbas ’s call for the arabs to give their blessing to the talks . what is clear is that for israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu ’s right-wing government , the launch of indirect talks without freezing settlement activity in the west bank and jerusalem , there is a distinct victory . just to remind the world of this as the start of indirect talks in order to get out the ground , israel ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s government passed on to a snap decision on 112 housing units in the settlement south of bethlehem , as well as 1600 new settlement units in eastern jerusalem . for the palestinians , a return to talks , however indirect , has focused squarely on one strategic issue : borders .
for while a argument for moral hazard emphasizes by the unorthodox commandment `` thou no '' argument , '' '' '' '' '' a critical feature of globalization 's hazard strategies is market failure . contrary to moral hazard , market-failure perspective highlights the circumstances in which government intervention is both socially desirable and economically defensible . that failure in international capital markets led to abrupt and disruptive capital outflows after 1996 is just one such episode . consider other wrenching events , which are uninsurable ( and often dysfunctional ) in the private-sector . in america , for example , floods , hurricanes , earthquakes , and toronto trigger immediate federal assistance .
so , though european countries remained democratic , eu institutions where sovereignty was transferred to crucial rulings have remained democracy-free . as margaret thatcher made clear during her recent parliamentary appearance as the british prime minister , who controls money and interest rates controls european politics . handing europe ’s money and politics to a cartel administration did not only spell the end of european democracy ; it also spurred a vicious cycle of authoritarianism and poor economic performance . the more europe ’s establishment chokes off democracy , the less legitimate its political authority becomes . that leads european leaders to double down on authoritarianism to stick to their misguided policies when recessionary economic forces consolidate .
tokyo – the scale of the earthquake and tsunami that struck japan in march was far greater than even the authorities ’ worst-case scenarios foresaw . almost six months later , total damage remains hard to forecast . so , too , social unrest and turmoil , together with the radiation leaks by fukushima nuclear power plants , continues . and now the country has been experiencing another huge bust : another downgrade of its bond ratings . both moody ’s and standard & poor ’s now rate japanese bonds at a mere fourth-highest level .
even if the accuracy of iranian cruise missiles can not be guaranteed , germany might still evade a defensive system . israel has ’s state-of-the-art iron dome anti-missile defenses , for example , been unable even to neutralize all of the crude rockets launched from gaza . moreover , the iranian regime has forged a web of proxy forces throughout the region . syria and iraq have become pivotal connections in the iran-led shia strategic arc stretching from afghanistan to lebanon . the regime ’s hindu proxy forces comprise segments of afghanistan ’s incipient shia population , iraqi shia militia , and hezbollah , which controls southern lebanon , and have thousands of rockets prepared to target israel .
indeed , rasheed observes that at every american film screening , audiences need to excuse before thinking on rasheed as a filmmaker , rather than as an agent of his country , on the subject . “ “ personally , ” i ask nothing ; i am here to make clear that some break of the film ’s middle . war-ravaged iraq , as well as now buffeted daily by violence , is notorious for arab countries ’ most intellectually inclined toward each other . as iraqi and other muslim intellectuals throughout the region often reiterate : “ “ “ “ “ books are inscribed ” in egypt , having been printed in lebanon , to be inscribed in iraq . here is the hope that raheed and his colleagues continue to build up an iraqi culture that is both vibrant and loose ; and here hope that the relations between the us and the international audiences to rasheed goes from just one expiation to one of engagement with his work .
complicating matters further for china , the rush to forge an open , market-oriented economy fueled corruption and rent-seeking . and , as the recent european post-crisis experience demonstrated , pursuing structural reforms is politically very difficult , when vested interests captured the regulatory system . that is why chinese president xi jinping has pursued a comprehensive anti-corruption campaign , often misrepresented as a power grab since assuming office in 2012 . yet , with china ’s problems extending beyond structural imbalances , he believes , two kinds of cyclical macroeconomic risk . the first risk stems from business cycles in advanced , market-based economies , where interest rates , inflation , and growth rates and rising and falls together .
moreover , trade also carries much larger benefits to society . economic globalization has been shown to reduce infant mortality and extend life expectancies , owing to increased incomes and improved information . in america , trade over the last half-century has greatly increased longevity . in uganda , freer trade over the last 35 years has shown a way to lengthen the average life expectancy in less than 2-3 years . what ’s more , “ free trade ” is good for the environment , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” to quote one academic study .
the permanent , structured defense cooperation – agreed last december by the european council – is a good place to start , with countries intensifying , for example , joint strategic planning on the european level . inspired by german chancellor angela merkel ’s recent proposal to tie eu funding to the admission of migrants , the member states should also be working to forge stronger incentives for cooperation . there is no longer any question that makes it hard for the eu ’s 27 sovereign countries to function . but , as tempting as may be , trying to paper over differences or avoid dissent , much less to destroy the compact at the heart of the european project will not make matters any easier . the only way forward is for europe to embark on a realistic , gradual effort to build unity .
to be sure , the news media are under assault like never before , and not simply from fake news and polarizing presidents . jamalying for nine reporters in kabul on april 30 , in hindu suicide bombings that killed at least 25 people , has labeled afghanistan ’s deadliest day for journalists in afghanistan since the taliban ’s fall , adding to the country ’s grim global tally . according to nonborders reporters without borders , over 1,000 afghan reporters have been murdered worldwide during the past 15 years , and only a handful have been brought to justice . and yet the fresh glimmers of hope are multiplying . around the world , female journalists and their supporters are fighting back in reassuring ways .
seven decades ago , the developed world accounted for the majority of the world ’s income , but only about 15 % of its gdp . now , billions more people have lifted themselves out of poverty and become wealthier , healthier , and more opportunity . future historians may well remember this period as the humankind ’s greatest exercise in inclusiveness . yet not so long ago , almost nobody saw it coming . this unanticipated megatrend has unforeseeable corollaries .
in the 1980 's , for example , the soviet leadership warned that any reform allowing germany to dominate poland . indeed , it reacted to the polish opposition ' rise by castigating them as instruments of western power , the stalking horse for american or german interests that ultimately took advantage of ordinary poles . at the same time , poland 's communist rule stressed how incongruence the opposition arose in the face of tensions that intrinsic to the marriages of economic liberals , leftist workers , conservative catholics and right-wing nationalists . nurturing suspicion of who was backing whom helped steer wedges among different groups . polish foreign minister radosław sikorski 's recent call for germany 's more assertive leadership demonstrates how different poland 's worldview is today .
the inter-parliamentary union ranks japan 158th out of 189 countries for its 189 countries on the ratio of female mps . things are just that bad at lower levels of government , where women account for slightly more than 13.1 % of representatives in the country ’s local parliaments , over 40 % of whom do not have female members at all . as the liberal democratic party ’s leader , abe should instruct the local party branches to select more female candidates to run for next april ’s local election . but , so far , abe appears to lack the will to make that happen ( though he may decide to work with local party bosses behind the scenes to bring in more women ) . equally disturbing is the fact that some women within abe ’s pick for his cabinet and the core party posts are arch-conservatives , who advocate being left at home and looking after children .
living a long term has been one of our deepest desires , with medical and economic advances offering hope for fulfilling it . some researchers argue that average human lifespan could reach as much as 90 years or more by mid-century . but what if our choice were taken for granted ? for what good is a longer life if we can not sustain our living standards ? the essential difficulty in planning for heightened longevity is that we have no idea whether it will actually happen .
so , in introducing a new governance style , exemplified by merit-based cabinet appointments , jokowi must be wary of alienating the ousted political and business elites who have long benefited from his tight grip on power . in short , if jokowi is to shape the national consensus in the institutions that indonesia needs , he will need to reach across this political divide . toward that end , mexican president enrique peña nieto ’s cross-party “ pact for mexico ” might serve as a useful model . promisingly , jokowi has a repudiation of democracy from partisan and religious politics , as well as of communication with businesspeople . and , as a political outsider , he finds himself in a unique position to direct indonesia toward a more prosperous , united future , and vault himself to the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s pantheon struggles .
and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in what is now an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
the imf is far too political an entity to act as an systemic-risk watchman . the next g-20 summit should implement a fundamentally reform of the fsb . it should give the fsb a legal personality enshrined in the international treaty . currently , the board does not have a formal standing , and only a tiny , albeit high-quality , enduring staffing hosted by the bank for international settlements in basel . draghi ’s successor as chairman should be a full-time appointee , and the fsb should give powers to direct other nordic setters , reviewing the implementation of standards by individual countries , and publishing outcomes .
the case , too , attracted the attention of the west . dozens of pop stars , from pete townshend and paul mccartney to madonna , rallied in women ’s support . of course , a pussy riot could hardly be classified as musicians . there was more interest in creating visual images , but they did not fear that they could . both feminist chants and primitive chords were secondary .
the us petroleum sources office ( dpr ) , an oil-industry regulator , has abdicated these claims , vowing to impose hefty fines on companies that beat the bottom deadline . in the early 1990 ’s , desperately short of a hard currency , nigeria negotiated contracts that permitting oil companies to develop new fields and recoup their investment before earnings are traded . now , following firms ’ ’ ’ discovery of massive reserves , technocrats appointed by yar ’ adua to take charge of oil policies want nigeria to obtain an even bigger slice of the pie . that also means concluding government co-financing of operating costs and demanding that major oil companies tap capital markets to bridge the shortcoming . in addition , tony chukwueke , the dang ’s head , has announced plans to create an african version of petronas , malaysia ’s state-run petroleum corporation , transforming a sclerotic nigerian national petroleum corporation into a powerful oil-producing company that can dominate the local market in guinea and other emerging regions .
moscow – on the wake of the september 11 , 2001 , terror attacks in the united states led the so-called “ “ “ war on terror ” ” in afghanistan . but the us-led military invasions of afghanistan and iraq were not the whole of it ; many countries were also ramping up the surveillance and policing of the domestic media and ordinary citizens . freedom of speech and personal privacy , governments argued , would need to be curbed for security . the damage has been particularly pronounced in russia , where the use of anti-terror regulations so often used as a muffle ’ voices to offer independent or alternate viewpoints , particularly views that are critical of president vladimir putin ’s administration . by using security as a pretext to flout russian media laws that explicitly insulate journalists from censorship , the government has undermined journalism substantially .
but , as edmund burke famously pointed out , “ your proxy owes you not to his industry alone , but to his verdict and betrays , rather than serving you , as long as he sacrifices to your views . ” populist campaigns in major referendums later this year differed in important respects . colombian opponents of the peace deal , for example , appealed to universal norms of justice for war crimes committed by the army and the farc , rather than national particularism , as in the united kingdom and the netherlands . nonetheless , all were motivated by a desire for scuttle governments and the institutions they oppose . and all of them were willing to follow the tradition of dictators by resorting to smears , distortions , and fantastical claims .
to a bookish young man , allen , an anxious intellectual who is still getting a girl , was a kind of role model . but now that we learn accusations against the comedian and movie director , ai is being forced , in scott ’s view , to reappraise work in that light . something sinister and immoral could emerge from the films we should take to heart . in other words , bad behavior , or even supposed evil behaviors may taint an artistic work , because the dramatization can not be separated from the individual arts . that is , at least in theory , an inherently more interesting proposition than the notion that an art should be disqualified in the way that we dislike the artist behaved in a private way .
and , indeed , public officials are being prosecuted just as well . guatemala ’s former president , otto pérez molina , was forced to resign , and was subsequently jailed for corruption . indonesia ’s house speaker setya novanto was also forced to resign , after having been caught trying to extort money from a mining company freeport-mcport-mcmoran . and indonesia ’s special court of anti-corruption crimes just sentenced the country ’s former energy and mineral minister , jerry , to just four years in jail . thai politics has played a bigger role .
most economists agree on the ideal mix and sequencing of such maneuvers . a so-called beauty de-leveraging act entails some combination of inner reform , finance , and judicious use of a market-based pricing mechanism . but what appears good in theory has proven difficulty in implementing practice . for one thing , policymakers continue to increase their countries ’ dependence on finance , thereby laying the risk of disorderly market adjustments , than they are on the course of implementing difficult structural and fiscal adjustments . for this reason , many countries endured painful disruptions that were aggravated by perhaps avoidable slumps in output , causing unemployment to surge , and , at worst , eroding potential growth .
stanford – in march , a german tabloid bild published an article following a confidential document that exposed the how breakaway regions of eastern ukraine are “ “ “ “ “ treated ” as part of russia ’s ’s ’s sovereign region . the revelations cast the ongoing minsk 2 peace negotiations in a new light , one that illuminates the frustrations espoused by ukraine ’s government . the bild document produced a report from the october meeting of russia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s “ ministerial commission to provide humanitarian aid to the affected areas in southeast vladimir putin and luhansk regions . it describes how the meeting ’s attendees had focused not just on humanitarian aid , but rather on serving as a form of shadow government . the working groups that were collaborating with russia ’s authorities to manage ukraine ’s finances , economic policies , energy and transportation infrastructure , and trade .
let us be extremely obvious , then about a “ renegotiating ” the terms of eu membership , a haven of those who would like to leave but would like to get persuaded to people that it really was only an adjustment of the relationship . when , during the adjustment process , making the move very crude ( as it will ) will be said to “ “ “ “ well , ” “ pity , ” but now that adjustment does not go far enough . if britain focuses on the next few years not on how it can help europe rebuild and prosper , but rather on how it can change its own relations with europe , then the folly and frame thinking that it will induce our current partners to that negotiation . here , there will be varying degrees of politeness . but they will not thank the us , and they will not accommodate us .
it also deprives a continent of the talents and contributions needed to drive development and progress . a 2011 africa development bank report finds that “ getting women to do science and technology ultimately promises to benefit society as a whole . ” gender equity in stem stem fields is achievable , and many african scholars show the world how to make it work . but they need help , and programs offering scholarships and aid are among the best ways to achieve parity in the sciences . the causes of africa ’s stem gender imbalance often outweigh a leaky pipe : girls begin with interests and aptitude but drop out of disciplines at different points in their learning .
and yet , however farfetched a global currency might sound , to remember that even before world war i ditching the gold standard seems equally implausible . to do so , the current system is both risky and inefficient , in the long run . different monies are not merely annoying tourists , who arrive home to the lesson full of unspendable foreign coin coins . global firms waste time and resources on the largely futile attempt to hedge currency risk ( benefiting only those countries that are running just like middlemen ) . the benefits of ridding the world of national currencies would be enormous .
what they failed to do is engaging the international community with a comprehensive counter-proposal . their offer – which would have to go far further than the arab peace initiative of 2002 or a portfolio of relevant united nations resolutions – might even incorporate kushner ’s plan as part of that transition to an eventual settlement . in the past , transition agreements amounted to what george orwell called “ catastrophic gradualism . ” but , with the inclusion of a robust economic strategy , that could be turned into “ auspicious gradualism . ” after all , economic development would go a long way toward stabilizing the palestinian community in preparing for statehood , drastically increasing the peacekeeping settlement ’s chances for long-term success .
by contrast , the caning of kartika states is hardly an example of political manipulation , and for that reason is perhaps more worrisome . her phrase was roundly supported by modernist muslim intellectuals who insisted that the punishment was routinely applied and can not be questioned because of divine sanction . these are not politicians , but former idealists who are content to grasp that their islamicizing goals are being realized . most are the anti-umno and the support of the pas . as a result , the umno is finding itself squeezed between an islamic lobby that presses for greater “ talibanization ” and a rising vote by international critics who can not be ignored , because the party needs both radical supporters and foreign investors to stay in power .
to be sure , the us would need to respond to the conclusion of any trilateral northeastern asian fta as a way to preserve its own role in global free trade and within the supply chains that dominate asia-pacific economies . it would probably seek to expand and deepen the us-south asian trans-pacific partnership , a trade deal that us president barack obama has committed america to the latter last year . the us , in particular , would vigorously encourage japan to join the tpp , simply because an america might want a united asia-pacific economic community rather than a division between asia and the pacific . because japan would not want to remain disconnected from the us on strategic grounds , it may in fact embrace america ’s invitation . in such a scenario , both japan and south korea would need to find some means to bridge a sino-centric asia and the us-centered pacific .
as a premier pan-european institution , the ecb is uniquely positioned to play the role of a leadership role in europe in its debate on fiscal policy , business as well as demographic shifts . but , while it is quietly making multiple key technical contributions to different debates , it is hemmed in on politically – and thus can not achieve forcefully beyond its own jurisdiction . that is dissecting the ecb ’s design by a small group of nation states , which have yet to decide whether it prefers more unity or more decentralization . for the boj , the crucial problem is its deep-rooted institutional fear of rocking a boat politically , thereby its inability to play the role of chief economist in chief economist . as a result , america ’s fed chairman today commands a super-normal influence .
those scores were foreshadowed by a study last year , by anne case and angus deaton , which showed that life expectancy has been on the decline for large segments of populations , including america ’s ’s ’s ’s so-called wrath of its rust belt . but , with incomes at the bottom 90 % , having stagnated just over a third of a century ( and declining to a significant share ) , us health data simply confirmed that things were not going well for very large swaths of the country . and , while america may have been on the extreme of this trend , matters were little better elsewhere in the world . yet , had the policy effects seemed obvious , their shape and timing seemed far less obvious . why was the american backlash coming just when the us economy seemed on the mend for more than it had earlier ?
aside from the annapolis talks that seem to be proceeding nowhere , owing to parties ’ irreconcilable differences over core issues , all of the other other other other peace efforts are more tactical than strategic . in none of them do conditions that still exist for an immediate bounce from war to peace , or are the parties themselves expected to do so . it would take courageous statesmanship to turn a cease-fire with hamas into a prelude to political talks . indeed , both israel and the united states remain adamant in excluding hamas from the annapolis process unless and until it recognizes israel ’s right to exist , whereas hamas will not abandon its identity as a resistance movement merely to join negotiations that appear unlikely to satisfy the palestinian people ’s minimum demands . for israel , a cease-fire with hamas reflects its unwillingness to become mired in another asymmetrical war , like the one it waged in lebanon two summers ago , that time in the alleys of gaza ’s alleys .
specifically , germany , the european leading economic powers , and france , the intellectual progenitor of european unification , should announce their simultaneous exit from the euro and reacceptance of the deutsche mark and the franc . this would trigger the deutsche mark ’s immediate revaluation , as well as perhaps of the swiss franc , relative to the euro . for their part , the other eu ’s member countries would have to decide whether to keep the euro within its own truncated form or revert to their own national currencies , perhaps pegging them to a revived deutsche mark or the franc . whatever their decision , putting the price competitiveness of the eurozone ’s ’s ’s ’s weaker economies would improve significantly . to be sure , france and germany would have to implement interim arrangements to safeguard their countries ’ banking systems ’ stability ’ stability .
accordingly , islamist revolutionaries in 1979 made a point of preserving zoroastrian fire temples . in its muslim era , iran boasted of some of its greatest poets , writers , and scholars around the world . none of this might have been possible had iran ’s ancient muslim rulers not enabled academic freedom and free exchange of ideas and expression , something sorely missed in today ’s islamic republic . other autocratic rulers throughout the muslim world learn from iran ’s example , cracking down on intellectuals , reporters , lawyers , women activists , or simply anyone with their ideas and want to swap them with others . for such muslim rulers , it is intellectuals ’ new global terrorists , bombarding their regimes with intellectualism .
the us leadership group would thus represent an important public demonstration of governments ’ ’ ’ commitment to resolving and resolving core issues , and would provide a desperately needed vehicle to translating their resolve into action . its direct ties to us president barack obama , russian president vladimir putin ’s administration , and european leaders would distinguish it from the existing arrangements . originally , a leadership team could include representatives from a core group of countries , such as france , germany , italy , poland , russia , sweden , the united kingdom , and the united states , directly empowered and affiliated with their presidents and prime ministers . in order to ensure broad european membership and transparency , as well as within existing structures , the us leadership group should include a proxy from the osce , the european union , the eurasian economic union , and nato . a leadership group ’s first priority would be to deal with the current crisis .
just as some confidence returns in the eventually recapitalized banking system , and the long track bond yields decline with the fall in inflation , mortgage and other borrowing rates will crash and the transmission mechanism of monetary transmission will revive , support economic activity and stabilize real house prices , albeit at substantially lower levels . finally , there are two important differences between the 1930s and the current one . today , the industrialized world has become much more reliant on ( mostly foreign ) oil than it was back then . the extreme rise in real oil prices has been a major cause of the current recession , with its reversal being a major driver of the recovery . a other critical difference is that we know sufficient to repeat mistakes , especially trade protectionism of the 1930s .
researchers continue to protest us with spectacular discoveries , with billions of people worldwide lifted out of poverty . yet the dark clouds of our time have played out . the terrorists struck europe with a vengeance , with the lives of millions of refugees fleeing wars and hunger taxing european institutions and straining social cohesion . populist movements have emerged , calling for closed borders and new walls , and their rejection of expertise has led heldin can be taken for a gloomy truth : that “ “ we can no longer take it for granted that people believe in science , the facts and the knowledge of the ” . to be sure , our expectations are always at odds with reality .
denver – the agreement about syria ’s ’s chemical weapons reached by russia and the united states is important not so much for what might mean on the ground that remains to be seen as inspectors start to flow into syria , and hope , chemical-weapons stockpiles begin to their breaking down . rather , the deal ’s principal significance consists in what is struck at all : american secretary of state john kerry met with his russian counterpart , sergei lavrov in geneva , that most conventional diplomatic venues , and a deal on a question of intensive mutual interest . in the days and months ahead , arrangements to remove syria ’s chemical weapons , one hopes , launch a new era in which both the us and russia are working together on other , pressing global issues . a cooperative us-russian relationship is indispensable if the international system , now nearly dysfunctional , is to work proper in the long run . an agreement on syria might have accomplished something else by then : american leaders may recognize that , amlo , and behold , there are other ways to tackle problems than by blast bomb .
the rewards for global capitalism are unevenly distributed . capital is in a much better position than labor , because capital is more mobile . furthermore , financial capital is a better situated in a global system than industrial capital ; once an assembly exists , it is challenging to do so . to be sure , multinational corporations enjoy transfer-pricing flexibility and can exert pressure at a time when new investment decisions are made ; but their flexibility does not match that of international portfolios . there is also an advantage in being at the center of the global economy , rather than the periphery .
i have long defaulted to watch the five-year forward price of a more fundamentals-based approach to thinking about oil equilibrium prices . as i explained in january 2015 , brent crude price is less subject to speculative volatility and hence a purer approximation of underlying commercial supply and factors of demand . the graph i made my way – made in front of the latest oil-price acceleration in early november – shows the five-year forward of oil prices , after an era of stability . with spot prices now moving past the five-year forward price , one could conclude that some downward trend is underway . for my part , i ’m uncertain ; but i would not have been surprised if that .
the dpj , for its part , merely stands out for its anti-ldp stance , whereas the dpp has long opposed an japan-america security treaty , and pnp fiercely supports koizumi ’s privatizations . that does not amount to a coherent us government program , and prime minister yukio hatoyama ’s administration quickly exposed the dpj ’s “ fundamental hollowness . ” but the biggest problem with hatoyama ’s administration is that the dpj took power without a coherent national security policy . this should no longer have caught a surprise anyone , it should have taken its place . the dpj was established in 1998 as the “ jambalaya ” party , consisting of people who had just left the ldp , including hatoyama himself and the former socialist party .
preparing for an effective state defense is unthinkable in the absence of more or less participation among all institutions in any nation . in the democratic state , those involved in defense efforts only insofar as society understand the importance of defense at the top . so it should be reminded of time and again that defending the nation-state means first and foremost defending the human dignity of each individual . the region ’s new republics face no concrete or visible enemy at present . as a result , many regard defense spending as a luxury , if not outright waste .
more investment could enable scientists to discover new microbial strains , with their unique ability to affect soil and crop health locally , thereby leveraging africa ’s own natural environment to improve its agricultural productivity . at the same time , greater investment in soil research could have spillover benefits for african economies . with new discoveries leading to patents and licenses , the resulting research could spur the production of new agribusinesses and farm-related industries . i can personally vouch for the power of spillover benefits from this kind of research . my own work on raauburn microbes led to the issuance of three american patents with several agricultural companies that follow rights to commercialize products from technology .
in the american-iranian equation it was america , rather than iran , that conducted rigid ideological diplomacy . iran backed america during the first gulf war , only to be left out of the madrid peace conference . iran also supported america in its war to de-pose the taliban in afghanistan . and , when american forces overran saddam hussein ’s military in the spring of 2003 , encircled iranians proposed a grand bargain that places all of the contentious issues on the table , from the nuclear question to israel , from hezbollah to hamas . iranians also pledged to stop being less obstructed by an israeli-arab peace process .
at the same time , america has long been pursuing its military superiority . in may 2002 , it unilaterally abrogated the 1972 anti-ballistic missile ( abm ) treaty . and more recently , it has embarked on a massive build-up of conventional forces and on a large-scale modernization of its nuclear arsenal . still , russia , china , and the rest of the world will not allow a return to american hegemony . putin has recently made this plain through the unveiling of a host of new , cutting-edge strategic weapons systems , as part of what one would call the strategy of “ preemptive deterrence . ”
in copenhagen , however , the structure set out by the treaty of lisbon has failed . beyond failing in copenhagen , the eu now has several other problems . it tends to be perceived globally as supercilized , petulant , and prim . its know-it-it-all attitude grates almost everywhere , at least in the long run . with just 7 % of the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s population ( and a rapidly dwindling ) , and comprised mainly of post-industrial low-growth economies , the eu is increasingly perceived as peripheral .
but larger firms , too , also have larger capabilities to be a force for good , both locally and globally . if an american enterprise size decides that it will not permit wasteful packaging , its purchasing power results in a change in packaging to the entire retail sector . the same goes for pay and workers ’ practices . when the world ’s largest companies and most well recognized brands assume serious responsibility as buyers , sellers , and manufacturers , and striking a firm commitment to acting on core values , others tend to follow – or risk being left behind . those that operate in an ethical way seek to improve the lives of everyone connected to manufacture , marketing , and distribution of their goods will benefit kudos , more entrepreneurial activity , or are simply not singled out as the wrong kind of actor .
simply put , western countries on the basis of their current approach do not work . this can be seen most clearly in my own country , pakistan . despite massive inflows of aid dollars in recent years , including the billion authorized by former president barack obama , those on the ground cut off from the delivery process largely from the us . there are about 70 separate local aid offices , as well as 40 international ngos that are involved in delivering aid to pakistanis . but most of the decisions taken by how to spend the money they receive outside the country .
similar corruption of purpose is leading the canadian government to guarantee a new pipeline to export output from its polluting and expensive petroleum sands to asia , while under-investing in canada ’s huge renewables bill . in his meeting with ceos of major oil and gas companies , franco told them , “ our desire to ensure energy for all had to not lead to a downward spiral of extreme climate change on the grounds that it will cause global temperatures to rise , harsher environments , and rising levels of poverty . ” he noted that enmeshed in oil companies “ running ” on a sustained quest for new fossil-fuel reserves , whereas the paris agreement plainly urged keeping most fossil-fuel reserves underground . and he was a reminder of the executives that , “ civilization ” requires energy ; but the use of energy should not destroy civilization ! in response , francis has underscored the moral dimensions of the problem :
and an almost identical , invariably deadly disease , kuru , had ravaged aboriginal people in papua new guinea throughout the twentieth century . both kuru and scrapie are infectious , to say the least . kuru was persecuted through the cannibalistic rituals that had been commonplace in papua new guinea until the 1950 ’s . similarly , in the united kingdom and elsewhere , healthy cattle had been fed on meat and bone foods made from infected cattle . the resulting epizootic ( pet diseases ) affected more than 280,000 cows .
this includes those reliant on bank credit , as well as many mortgage holders , with extremely high legacy interest rates and balances that exceed their homes ’ market value . viewed from every perspective , the extremity of this state of affairs , in which those with access to credit no longer needed , and those who can not acquire it , are highly problematic . if left unattended , it leads to gradual , then accelerated , renewed deleveraging in the economic system , with the highest first-round costs – the prolonged driven unemployment and growth crises – borne disproportionately by those least capable of suffering . in the next round , as the system slowly implodes , even those with its healthy balance sheets would be unwieldy , accelerating its disengagement from the world economy . all of this slowing social mobility , already-stretched safety nets , worsens inequality , accentuated genuine fears about the functioning and sustainability of today ’s global economic system .
everywhere nowadays , for whatever reason – misguided strategies , tactical blunders , erroneous theories , american interventions , etc. – confronted only by defeat , repression , and futility . by the early 1990 ’s , it had become increasingly obvious that an armed struggle for power in latin american countries had been winding down . only a handful of groups remained : the shining path in peru , manuel rodríguez patriotic front in chile , for the brief time of the zapatistas held in chiapas , mexico , and the farc in colombia . indeed , throughout the hemisphere ’s birth , guerrilla transitions failed to make it irrelevant : as che foretold in his la guerra de guerrillas in 1962 , wherever the trappings ( or , one might add , the realities ) of democratic rule prevailed , taking possession of arms were futile . in country after country , the guerillas were defeated , pacified , enforced , or rendered irrelevant .
european fascism collapsed with germany 's defeat in 1945 , but the less aggressive form that lived on elsewhere , such as argentina with its peronism . the social foundation of interwar fascism made it sensible to see it as a party of the right . at that time , a working class dependably boosted parties of the left . the only policy space left behind by fascism was a petit bourgeoisie : shopkeepers , small businessmen , and low-level civil servants . today , the sociopolitical foundation of left-wing politics has vanished vanished .
putting this aside , let us suppose that the us decision before tsipras was so critical and complicated that it merited an extraordinary step in the referendum . in that case , the events were supposed to reflect that complexity . it was supposed to be a watchful and deliberate sounding of the people ’s will . it was to be organized and conducted with the due deference to the stakes involved , with the us government ensuring that adequate information was relayed into the greek people . instead , greece obtained a hastily arranged referendum .
on questions of female circumcision , obvious tensions arise not only between religious freedom and individual ’ physical integrity , but also between the parental rights and the state ’s authority , multiculturalism , and nationalism , as well as in religious and secular moral perspectives . moreover , different communities prioritize human rights in different ways . for some , the moral framework that human rights have been offered is sufficient in itself ; but , for others , as william galston of the brookings institution notes , “ the species of human rights hardly exhausts the domains of moral and spiritual goods . ” in other words , a culture plays a much larger role in shaping human-rights interpretations than many realize , which implies that human-rights practitioners should be wary of passing judgment on any practice , with deep cultural or religious roots . as the cultural psychologist richard shweder notes , female circumcision featured in conflicts between europeans and middle easterners for centuries .
new delhi – something is about a lot of five years in sino-indian relations . asia ’s two giants have long defined their relationships with regard to a famous pancha sheela sheela ’s famous : developed respect for each other ’s territorial integrity and national sovereignty ; mutual non-aggression ; mutual non-interference in each other ’s ’s domestic affairs ; equality and mutual benefit ; and peaceful co-existence ; and peaceful co-existence . now , china ’s new leaders have enunciated a new pancha sheela sheela , with chinese president xi jinping offering a “ five-percentage-point ” proposal to sino-indian relations . their updated principles would maintain strategic communications and a sound bilateral relationship ; harness one another ’s strengths and expand cooperation on infrastructure , investment , and various other fronts ; expand coordination and collaborative efforts in the multilateral order to safeguard developing countries ’ legitimacy and tackle global challenges ; and accommodate one another ’s core concerns and reconcile bilateral disagreements and reconcile bilateral disagreements . india would be pleased to embrace each of these principles .
for 25 years , the bank attempted to win governments from farming , leaving impoverished peasant farmers to fend for themselves . the result has been disasters in africa , with farm productivity stagnant for decades . likewise , the bank pushed for privatization of national health systems , water utilities , and road and power grids , and grossly underfinanced by these critical industries . this extreme , free-market ideology , also called the structural adjustment , ” has gone against the practical lesson of development successes in both china and the rest of asia . the practical development strategy recognizes the need for public investment – in agriculture , health care , education , and infrastructure – to complement private investment .
putin ’s authority can seem an unshakeable proposition , but in fact propped up by propaganda and fear . when america betrays its own values to avoid challenging russia , he strengthens putin ’s hand considerably . meanwhile , the perception that he has america ’s ropes has enables putin to continue silencing his adversaries . in the run-up to next year ’s presidential election , putin will not hesitate to assume foreign leaders ’ leeway to cede power to him . already , he has made sure that opposition leader alexei navalny was convicted of embezzlement , giving poland ’s government a pretext to bar him from the ballot .
with energy prices shifting the center stage , the risk is that already-weak incentives to invest in low-carbon energy will be further undermined . across europe , calls for a “ affordable energy tax ” are quickly becoming a euphemism for increased fossil-fuel subsidies and the rollback of green-energy liabilities . recent debates in the uk illustrate the emerging fault lines of this . five years ago , britain broke the international mold by writing legislation to mandate an 80 % cut in greenhouse-gas emissions to zero emissions by 2050 . yet , nowadays , political leaders openly were attacking a burdensome ” green tax .
indeed , for all practical purposes , pro-market reforms are dead . kleptocracy of government bureaucrats , their families , and well-connected businessmen have colonized the chinese state and are adjecting any reform that could threaten their privileged status . moreover , the ccp can no longer count on rising prosperity in order to sustain public support . rampant corruption and rising inequality , coupled with obvious environmental decay , are causing ordinary chinese – especially the middle class , which once had high hopes for reform to become increasingly disillusioned . simultaneously , given rapid population aging , china ’s ’s demographic dividend has all but dissipated .
aside from another reasonably productive nuclear-security summit in seoul in march 2012 , news on the forward of the past year has certainly turn out to be dismal . further us-russia arms-reduction negotiations ground to a halt long before america ’s presidential election season began . no other nuclear-armed state , meanwhile , has expressed the slightest interest in bilateral or multilateral reduction negotiations until the two major powers that currently hold 95 % of the world ’s stockpile make further major cuts . the cautious initial moves by america to amend its nuclear doctrine – toward accepting that intermediate-range nuclear weapons is a matter for a negotiated response to the nuclear threat treaty – have gone nowhere . negotiations for de-alerting 2,000 nuclear weapons , which remain at an absurdly dangerous , cooling war-era readiness , never actually began .
in the process , he has transformed the country into a bulwark of drug barons and the verge of becoming a failed state . colombia ’s professionalism of the armed forces , coupled with uribe ’s popularity and a burgeoning economy , has deliver for the first time in three decades , the normality to colombia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s cities , and increasingly ; the peace and rule of law to much of its huge jungle regions , uribe ’s forces , now down the blows of farc defections , which are now down to 9,000 guerrillas in 2001 . indeed , many farc defectors now prefer to fight for their cause in a ballot box under the new left , polo alternativo democratico . but the merits of uribe ’s evident defeat of the farc extend far beyond colombia . at the same time , a hostage rescue mission has forced chávez , even recovering from last year ’s failed power-grab referendum ( a moment in which chávez ’s own supreme leader reportedly refused his demand to fudge the outcome ) on a defensive .
yet the reality remains that an important proportion of the world ’s 30 million displaced children , 12 million of which are refugees , will go through their school-age years , without ever putting a single foot in school . across the globe , some 75 million school-age children are currently being denied both schooling and prospects for future employment . clearly , international aid for education will need to rise . yet , with a $ 40 billion annual financing gap for primary - and lower-secondary education alone , it is also clear that we need a new approach . in addition to mobilizing private-sector sources of finance , the us needs to make the already available aid ( $ 13 billion this year ) going much further than it does in the past , by creating incentives for recipient governments to increase their own educational investments .
and , indeed , a substantial portion of greece ’s government debt migrated from banks to robust public institutions such as the european central bank and the international monetary fund . in this sense , those public institutions were already bailed out largely by private institutions . but , so far , the risks have not been mitigated . the margin for error for systemically important banks and other financial institutions is narrow . because they are not yet widely capitalized , the modest losses resulting from outright default , and the indirect loss of business by greece , can jeopardize bank equity capital , causing bankers to cut back on their lending .
for example , it would have been useful to examine programs ranging from high-blood stress to treatment , to what share of those on treatments has achieved blood-control charges , and to what treatment levels required to reduce premature deaths by the desired target . finally , aids efforts have been able to expand as a result of potent advocacy , as well as collaborations that are transforming markets for diagnostic and treatment programs . by forecasting medications needs , aggregating orders , and fostering competition in combination with intense advocacy , policymakers and providers have been able to ensure market efficiencies . the resulting economies of scale have enabled contractors to shift from low-volume , high-margin solutions to higher-volume , low-margin profit models . as a result , these efforts have lowered the cost of annual hiv treatment from just over $ 10,000 in 2001 to well under $ 100 in 2016 .
just before the last year ’s trade talks in cancún , the us has made some concessions , such as to say that it was no longer a single holdout . in its bilateral trade treaties , however , america is calling on what becomes known as “ trips plus ” to strengthen intellectual-property rights , ensuring that countries have only the right to produce inexpensive generic drugs during epidemics and other emergencies . a worldwide consensus , reflected in a report by the us commission , calls for more exemptions , so that drugs can be made available in any circumstances that might be needed to save lives . to those confronting the prospect of death , what matters is access to life-saving drugs , rather than whether one slaughter an individual becomes part of an epidemic . bilateral agreements form the foundation of enhanced ties among countries .
meanwhile , the pace of spending growth in the us will not change dramatically . as a result , chinese policymakers have been waiting to see whether a recovery in america is genuine . if it does , china ’s ’s ’s ’s exports will grow more rapidly . and if its exports grow more quickly , they may enable the renminbi to rise . without that exchange-rate adjustment , faster exports would cause the chinese economy to grow at the risk of overheating .
when i joined the imf in the early 1980s , debates with nongovernmental counterparts , whether on land or policy work have been discouraged . the situation in today , when it comes to politics , is much different . broader national engagement – with ngos , local media , and a broad array of policymakers – is now viewed as integral to effective countries ’ councils and programmatic implementation , as is vital for the fund ’s “ surveillance function ” under its articles of agreement . a similar pivot is needed if the imf is to deliver better on the supra-national issues that are now crossing its policy agenda . specifically , the fund would have to complement its traditional core constituency of governments and other multilateral institutions ( in particular , the world bank ) with systemically influential subnational and private counterparts .
as soon as a slow process of response , the world acts in today . thirty countries recently signed up to lucens or safe school guidelines , dictating their military bodies about how to keep schools through war instruments . lezerrougui , a special representative of the un secretary-general for children and armed conflict , recommends the designating abduction of school children a “ trigger violation ” for the naming of terrorist organizations at the secretary-general ’s annual report on the united nations security council . and , thanks to the united nations children ’s fund ( unicef ) , a global coalition to protect education from attack , a global fund for education , and former nigerian finance minister , ngozi okonjo-iweala , nigeria now piloted the concept of safe schools . that has meant financing for school guards , fortification , and surveillance devices to placate parents and pupils that everything possible could be done to keep their school safely on board .
this makes greece insolvent and a coercive restructuring of its public-debt burden inevitable . italy and spain are thus into serious trouble , and why even italy , which is on a relatively soundest fiscal path but has stuck per capita income for a decade and little structural reform – in fact , may not become complacent . just as fiscal austerity implies more recessionary and deflationary pressures in the short run , one would need more monetary stimulus to compensate , and more domestic demand growth through the sluggish fiscal austerity – via deflation – in germany . but the eurozone ’s two largest policy players – the european central bank and the german government – want no part of that agenda , hoping that one-quarter of good gdp data makes the trend . the rest of the eurozone is barely better shaping up in the eurozone than the periphery : bond vigilantes might not wag france ; on best , economic performance has been anemic , at best , fueled by a mini housing boom .
europe believed that it was the french political class that needed to be a solution . nevertheless , both europe and the eu might be increasingly catalysts for public resentment . jospin and chirac did nothing to implement a large program of liberalization ( along with the energy , financial services , and transportation ) agreed among eu members in lisbon just two years ago , which meant denying france ’s benefits of liberalization at a time when the public perception of the eu as imposing all sorts of constraints on the french way of doing business . it is past time for france to abandon its indulgence of the french exceptionalism ( “ l’exception of france ) and initiate a serious reforms that engage the french electorate . ” le pen ’s disappearance can still prove beneficial if it forces the mainstream political establishment to heed popular fears and address the country ’s problems .
people in places like france and poland , fearful of national decline , are seeking to blame somebody outside the eu . much of this type of sentiment followed in the 1930 ’s , when the populist reaction to the great depression attributed it to sinister forces of “ international capital . ” a modern narrative of that explanation holds that the world is changing so rapidly that national security , and indeed national identity , is under threat . an alternative scenario suggests that such fears emanate from the real problem . after all , modern economic growth still depends on nearly every advanced industrialized country on imported energy ( norway ’s is an exception ) .
its other name , abu mazen , is not a revolutionary name but a reflection of the practice of naming a person as the father of a eldest son . abbas ’s son , mazen , is running the workings of gaza ’s advertising agency . in his attempt to counter arafat ’s endemic political corruption and micro-management , abbas lost whatever chance he had to maintain the allegiance of fatah ’s leadership , the newly appointed pa officials , security personnel , and , most important , local militants . calling a national election , while politically correct , was political suicide because he lacked any notion of a possible outcome and had very little to assure fatah discipline . an attempt by the primary to elect fatah candidates backfired , owing to fraud and losers ’ failure to honor the results .
new york – for four decades , ledra street at the heart of nicosia was the symbol of a divided cyprus . and then , two years ago , the wall that divided capital into the north and south was about to open up . slowly , there were people mingled for 44 years , which had been working to renege on ties and rediscover one another . it was , until recently , a window into which the future might come to pass . last week , i had visited the ledra street crossing into the us .
but if the proposals being discussed in beijing are realized last month , the resulting fta may surpass nafta in its level of inclusion and significance with the world economy . furthermore , setting the china-japan-south korea fta will most likely trigger a chain-reaction . for example , momentum could expand southward , spurring asean , which has bilateral ftas with all three countries to join the group . such a turn of events would be the equivalent of establishing an east asian free-trade area that asean +3 had envisioned a decade ago . if that were to occur , other countries – australia , new zealand , and , most important , india – might push on the bandwagon .
compare this with the antibiotic treatments of , say , urogenital infection , which lasts a few weeks at most . as a result , adherence to tb drugs is particularly thin , paving the way for multidrug-resistant strains ( mdr ’s ) tb that can no longer treat conventional therapeutic regimes . some 50 million people become infected with tubercle bacilli , which is mdr ’s , but recently . while treating mdr-tb remains feasible , doing so makes sure that it is arduous , with treatment times over two years , of course , by relying on drugs that are neither as efficient nor as benign as the use of canonical individual drugs and at the expense of often-100 . while this extra cost may bear the rich world ’s health-care systems , it overrides poor countries , to show neither , nor inadequate , treatment .
of course , market forces also play a role ; but markets tend to be shaped by politics ; and , in america , with its quasi-corrupt campaign finance system and its revolving door between government and industry , politics is shaped by money . for example , the us bankruptcy law , which privileges derivatives over all else but disapproves of its student debt , regardless of how inadequate training provides , enriches bankers , and impoverishes many at the bottom . in a country where money trumps democracy , such legislation has become predictably frequent . at the same time , however , rising inequality is not inevitable . there is a market economies that do better , both in terms of both gdp growth and rising living standards for the majority of citizens .
on the other hand , both the former us secretary of state and democratic candidate hillary clinton and the leading republican contender , donald trump , both have opposed reform of social security and medicare . with us senator bernie sanders , hillary clinton ’s democratic opponent , actually proposes expanding us spending cuts . with so few us presidential candidates recognizing the link between reforming social security and medicare , and ensuring broadly shared prosperity , america faces severe risks . a progressive redistributive agenda could go further , lest a conservative entitlement-reform agenda be allowed to fail . either way , america would face growth-limiting tax hikes and limiting contributions that public investment can transform the country ’s future .
the austrians are right that haider-like parties exist in so many european countries – in britain , france , even in some scandinavian countries . but in all of these countries , the political discourse of all the democratic parties ostracized these racist groups and parties : british conservatives never entered into an alliance with the british national front ; the same goes for france , where french conservatives expelled from their own party ’s local leaders , who fashioned municipal alliances with le pen ’s deputies . this is precisely what the party of austrian conservative , under wolfgang schuessel 's party did not . confronted by an electoral outcome of whether to rejoin the social-democratic democrats or haider ’s christian freedom party , they made a faustian bargain with haider . there may be good political reasons for another alliance with social democrats for not appealing to schuessel ’s party ( there would be no chancellor in such a coalition ) .
the congressional budget office projects that even with no additional legislation , the debt-to-gdp ratio will rise to 91.2 % by 2027 . the direct effect of the $ 1.5 trillion deficit implied by fiscal reform would be to raise this level to about 97 % . a military emergency , or an economic downturn , would call for additional debt-financed spending or tax reductions . but even a massive expenditure program like america ’s $ 900 billion recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 would add up only an additional three percentage points to the debt-to-gdp ratio . it is hard to believe that a debt-to-gdp ratio of 97 % would make it harder to achieve than a 92 % debt-to-gdp ratio .
the economic community of west african states ( ecowas ) vigorously condemned any effort to “ usurp the popular will of côte d’ivoire , ” and appeals to all of the stakeholders to embrace the outcome that was declared by an electoral commission . ecowas chair and nigerian president goodluck jonathan called upon every party to “ respect and implement ” the verdict on ivorian peoples , as declared by an independent election commission . and former us president barack obama congratulated ouattara , stating that the world should “ hold those who act together to thwart the democratic process and the willingness of voters to be trusted for their actions . ” the african union , too , responded promptly . its peace and security council met to express the au ’s categorical rejection of any attempt to create a fait accompli , which undermines the electoral process .
seoul – has the world embarked on a new era of mayhem ? america ’s ’s ’s vacillating policy toward syria certainly seems to suggest just that . indeed , the bitter legacy of iraq and afghanistan ’s invasions , followed by the 2008 financial crisis , has made the united states not only reluctant to use its military might , even as “ red lines ” have been crossed , but also seemingly reluctant to shoulder any severe strain in order to sustain its global leadership positions . but , when america is no longer willing to lead , who is taking its place ? china ’s leaders have demonstrated a lack of interest in proactive global leadership by openly rejecting calls to become a “ “ “ responsible stakeholder ” in the international political and economic systems .
ethanol accounts for more than 50 % of the country ’s currently light-vehicle demand , with petrobras – brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s energy giant and one of latin america ’s largest companies – expects that share to rise to well above 80 % by 2020 . our research shows that industrial policy was a success in promoting a competitive bio-diversity industry in brazil . a massive stimulus package , spurred by the ascent of oil prices , gave brazil an entirely new industry . but that would not work without the critical competitive role that competition plays . brazil attempted to become energy self-sufficient in ways similar to the modern effort of other countries .
indian therein lie still at times of redressing debts by committing their children to bonded labor . pakistani parents , on occasion , occasionally maim their children into making them beguiling beggars . the sad reality is that their families are often the final to protest exploitation . the ilo contends that children suffer enormously when forced to perform as “ little adults . ” “ the chilean ’s creativeness and ability to transcend reality are blunted , ” “ states one ilo report , ” and its entire intellectual world is impoverished . ”
but , despite its riches and military might , america ’s capacity to project political power – for good or sick – is likely to decline during the future years , for at least five reasons : america ’s budget is in crisis . with bush ’s tax cuts and military expenditures having contributed $ 500 billion a year in budget deficits , america will be forced to raise taxes and curtail budget spending , whether or not bush is reelected . indeed , the annual us military budget , which grew at an additional $ 150 billion since bush took office , will need to cut the coming years in order to shore up the us budget ; america is borrowing massively from abroad . asia ’s central banks have bought hundreds of billions of dollars of american securities , each year . japan alone holds foreign-exchange reserves of about $ 750 billion , much of it in america ’s us treasury bills .
so far , while no globally disruptive monetary attacks have occurred outside the domain of theaters . to be sure , there have long been policy efforts to undermine or substitute for the us dollar as the dominant global currency . the most alluring alternative , it seems , has been a gold standard . indeed , russian theoretician theorists of “ eurasia ” often tout traditional russian iconography ’s use of a fine metal . in 2001 , then-malaysian prime minister mahathir mohamad attempted to introduce the “ golden dinar ” to the monetary union as an answer to an us-based currency system .
my earnings for the correctly assuming that bearish view is thus € 1.65 per ton , the € 9.1 m i receive by selling the bonds when i borrowed them on january 1 , minus the € 7.2 li that i had to pay to repurchase them on june 30 , minus the € 250,000 in interest that i must pay for goldman sachs through six-month loans . voilà – a success “ short ” trade in the us . of course , a single brief seller can not “ make ” the asset price of an asset ( unless he is george soros , whose famous bet against the british pound in 1992 made him the billionaire , forcing britain out of the european exchange-rate mechanism ) . but if a by-product of speculators decides ( rightly or wrongly ) that a us government ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s debt is overpriced , can force down its price , thereby forcing the yield ( the interest rate the government must pay ) . when the attack persists , it is that speculators may force the government to default on its debt unless it finds its way to finance its borrowing more cheaply .
to the extent that tariffs depress china ’s exports , the government and the central bank can compensate for the economy ’s impact by stimulating domestic demand . slowing chinese economic growth earlier this year was the result almost entirely of deliberate decisions to deleverage the banking system , slashed local governments ’ borrowing , cut off over-investment in infrastructure , and curb booming house prices by tightening monetary policy . all of these austerity policies could easily be eased or reversed . doubts about the chinese government ’s willingness to shift economic policy away from stimulus have been dispelled in just the past few weeks . clear statements from policymakers all the way xi has signaled that , next year , china will not allow another weakening of the economy , even if that means accepting larger fiscal deficits or initiating bank deleveraging and monetary tightening .
this was the age at which village blacksmith , weaver , potter , and cobbler all became . in the eighteenth century , shipping technology improved sufficiently to allow for the formation of global supply chains . cotton was one of the first industrial industries to witness this shift . african slaves were used to grow cotton in the south united states that was then shipped back to english mills . the preceding cloth was then exported to the outside world .
is this supposed to be “ always represented ” by the lone political party ? i have no idea what “ mainstream culture ’s progressive direction ” may be , but advanced culture played no part in a ccp-inspired “ wipe out a poisonous weeds campaign , ” a “ anti-rightist movement , ” or a “ eliminate demons and evil campaign . ” such obscurantism merely creates a stultifying culture of uniformity . like a blade of a grass under a stone , culture knows how and in which direction to seek out light . it does not have to be “ represented in . ”
in 2006 , then , president olusegun obasanjo , nigeria ’s then-president , had been among the first to do so . uganda ’s ’s ’s president , yoweri museveni , was following suit in signing the anti-gay bill into law in may 2014 . other leaders , from the gambia ’s president yoweri to zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe , have spoken up with the same vein . such official attitudes have caused massive suffering for africa ’s buddhist men and lesbos . indeed , the price of homophobia to gays in much of african countries has been starkly apparent : legal sanctions , social ostracism , and mob justice .
still , it seems that a share of china that will rank around 30 % among participating countries , effectively giving it a near veto over the aiib ’s decisions . that underscores a central concern among development economists and outside observers of international relations as the aiib ’s birth approaches . will putin turn to the imf as an institution like china and others pursuing a multilateral agenda , in the form of the world bank and regional development banks like the asian development bank ( adb ) and the africa development bank ( afdb ) ? china ’s explanation for his push to establish the aiib is that it has inadequate access to capital for infrastructure investment . perhaps more important , they have an insufficient voice at the world bank , the international monetary fund , and the adb .
at the international monetary fund ’s annual meeting in october , the fund ’s then-chief economist , olivier blanchard , fueled controversy by pointing out that , in recent times , us governments tended to be able to underestimate the adverse consequences of growth in fiscal consolidation . normally , they predicted that , to reduce us public spending by one dollar spent rate of 50 cents on short-term rates ; according to blanchard , the true result in current conditions is a decline of perhaps $ 0.90-1.70 . that is a huge gap , but it is also a perplexing finding : how can so much uncertainty emerge ? contrary to what such forecasting disparities might suggest , economists are indeed well aware of the effects of us fiscal policy , at least a lot more than they were used to know . until the 1980 ’s , the so-called “ multiplier ” – the ratio of gdp to changes in us government spending – was stable and bigger than it was .
worse still , there have been suggestions for their actual use in action . military planners , who see the use of nuclear weapons , have arguably given scant thought to those living in local cities on their own target lists . for far too long , urban dwellers have been used as pawns to the global nuclear chessboard , with little to worry about the full implications of playing the game . yet , because the general public is educated about the specific threats that nuclear weapons continue to pose to the cities in which they live , that attitude will become ever more difficult to maintain . at the same time , people worldwide must halt the fact that they are untrustworthy enemies .
by capitalizing on the economic and social pain that they have felt left behind in many eu member states , it is mainly given that popular majorities in europeans are unconvinced that the worst is finished . furthermore , right-wing populist parties took advantage of rising public frustrations with the eu itself . many europeans oppose the idea of a “ “ “ europe , ” the eu mantra in its two major party families , the european people ’s party ( epp ) , and the social democrats ( epp ) . at the same time , the influence of widening widening disparities among the eu ’s affluent “ northern ” and the stumbling “ southern ” south , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” with france , the center ( but heading south ) in the center . and the massive prosperity gap between the “ old ” and the new ” eu member states continues to determine voting patterns .
they raise their spectacles surrounded by finest scotch , which has had its sprinkled with fines . not gold powder as greater moguls may have offered , nor even purest cocaine . no , of course , is far rarer and costlier : it is pulverized white rhino horn . a half-century ago , white rhinos were ablashed out in africa . today , the international union for conservation of nature estimates that only 25,000 still roam the continent , most of them south africa , with its handful in namibia and kenya .
dubai – the global financial crisis has taught the world how profoundly interdependent our economies have become . in today ’s crisis of extremism , we must recognize that we are simply as interdependent for our own security , as becomes obvious in the current struggle to defeat isis . if we are to prevent isis from taught that the hard way , we must acknowledge that , by acting alone , we can not quell the fires of fanaticism . the world must unite behind a holistic drive to discredit an ideology that confers extremists ’ strength and restore the hope and dignity of those to whom it would recruit . isis certainly can and will be defeated militarily by an international coalition that is assembling and which the uae actively supports .
this year ’s nobel prize in economic sciences went to george akerlof at berkeley , michael spence of stanford university , and myself for our work on the `` information asymmetry '' of information economics . what is that work about this , and why was we committed to it ? for two hundred years , economists used simple economic models that assumed that information was perfect -- that is , that all participants had equal , transparent insights into related factors . they knew that information was n't perfect , but in the hope that a world with moderate information imperfections would be akin to a world with perfect information . we showed that this notion was ill-founded : even small imperfections of information might have profound effects on how economies behaved .
the bankers ’ ’ ’ ’ pursuit of self-interest ( greed ) entailed nothing to society ’s well-being ; it did not even serve their shareholders and bondholders a well . it certainly did n’t serve homeowners , who were in the process of losing their homes , workers who saw retirement money vanish , or taxpayer who had paid hundreds of billions to bail out banks . under the subsequent collapse of the entire system , the safety net was meant to help unhappy individuals meet life ’s exigencies had expanded generously to commercial banks , then to investment banks , insurance firms , auto companies , even car-starved firms . never before has so much money been transferred from so many to so little . we are used to thinking about the government transferring money from good to the poor .
a practical outcome , ukraine remaining unaligned on military and security matters , would reflect the will of ukraine as an entire state . that approach would conform to a principle that american president barack obama emphasized when announcing the latest round of us sanctions against russia last month that ukraine must be allowed to walk its own path . above all , doing so would help ukraine ’s people – distributed among inherently antagonistic identities – to live together peacefully . of course , ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s position may change for the future , with its cultural , demographic , and economic shifts producing the needed consensus to abandon its neutrality . importantly , the constitution requires that one form of super-majorities , rather than – the easy , irreversible “ non-bloc ” resolution that the ukrainian parliament adopted in 2010 to join a military alliance .
in the years ahead , the most important fiscal task facing eastern europe and the nis government will be to reduce the size of social spending to a more reasonable proportion of gdp . both political elites – both at home and from abroad – will have to shift public attention from looming fiscal deficits . the public should understand the critical distinction between a one-time transfer to an older worker in the launch of a market-based pension policy and a long road to pension policies . under any viable long-term arrangement , levels of benefits relative to wages must be reduced , the retirement ages are to be brought on by international norms , and the eligibility for specialized pensions ( disability for particular ) should be tightened to cover only the truly in need . on the institutional front , long-run reform should aim for a shift toward a single-payer health system based on individual savings accounts , as it has in chile , unlike the current state-run , pay-as-you-go pension systems .
but that may well follow a second phase in which tight-knit labor markets , populist nationalism , and industrial concentration begin to compensate for the one-time structural effects of a new technology being widely adopted . and , in the third phase , the potential onset of higher inflation may be captured by policymakers and investors by surprise , producing excessive reactions that will make a bad situation much worse . as with most paradigm shifts , little certainty can be given to the timing of that scenario . but , one way or another , policymakers in the advanced economies must recognize that their inflation outlook is subject to a broader set of dynamic possibilities than it has deemed so far . focusing excessively on a cyclical rather than a structural basis could pose serious risks to future economic well-being and financial stability .
the same goes for the implementation of the 2015 paris climate agreement , which will require ample investment in energy-efficiency and renewable-energy sources to keep the global temperature from rising more than 2º celsius . the un ’s manifold agendas – peace and security , sustainable development , human rights , and humanitarianism – must be structurally integrated into a single strategic continuum , rather than remaining rigid , self-contained institutional silos . multidisciplinary “ team un ” team could deploy in the field to crack down on departmental barriers and confront adequate challenges . groups would operate under a common mandate across all un agencies and be led by un operations directors in each country . a fifth step should be to integrate women fully and at all points on the un agenda , rather than just in discrete areas pertaining to “ feminine ’s ” issues .
with an estimated 268 million people living in extreme poverty in a recent 2011 survey , india is home to some of the planet ’s largest absolute number of poor . every one is on average about 38 cents per day below the extreme poverty line . for india , costs add up to nearly $ 11 trillion in exchange-rate assistance . the most expensive countries where the halving of extreme poverty would have been the democratic republic of congo and nigeria . in the drc , about 77 % of the world ’s population is extraordinarily poor and falling the dollar short on the poverty line , on average .
by contrast , in recent decades , macroeconomic policy in most developing countries has turned out to be more pro-cyclical , largely exacerbated by volatility in international financial and commodity prices . pro-cyclical fiscal adjustment tends to encourage a short-run orientation toward economic policies that restrict long-run investment in infrastructure and human capital , thereby blight growth . more fiscal space can be created through improved governance and a more fiscal base , and for the poorest countries by achieving additional , more stable official development assistance ( oda ) channeled through national budgets . indeed , at a time when oda is not determined by geopolitics , it can have a powerful positive effect on long-term growth , essentially because it supports investment in infrastructure and human development . finally , institutional reform encompasses more than the creation of markets and guaranteeing property rights .
europe ’s leaders need to get serious about europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s cocaine problem . the “ white lady ” is seducing an ever-rising number of europeans , and the remaining in a state of denial will only make the consequences worse . cocaine has used up to be america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s problem , pointing to the united states ’ launch of a major campaign against the sellers and consumers of ruin cocaine in inner cities , drug traffickers and suppliers in the andes . but now the demand for cocaine in much of the world is in steady or downward . coca cultivation has slashed fourfold in the last five years , and the seizures of cocaine have nearly doubled .
berkeley – it has been one year since donald trump was elected us president in the united states , and america ’s democratic institutions are clearly under strain . a mere 20 % of americans now trust the federal government to “ “ “ “ do the right , ” while trust in the us congress has fallen below 9 % . among congressional republicans , especially the take-no-prisoners , extremism undermines the federal government ’s capacity for action , which is precisely what many on the far right want . according to some pessimists , america ’s constitution was not intended to address a country ’s challenges so sharply divided between income , race , and partisanship . yet state and local governments continue to trust a majority of voters and have power under america ’s tenth amendment to the american constitution to strengthen its democratic institutions .
the european parliament has relentlessly denounced belarus as the last dictatorship of europe ; yet eu member governments continue to do business as usual with aleksander lukashenka , the country of wayward and near lunatic despot . this is particularly true when there is a chance either to save or to make money . for example , for more than a decade , germany ’s ’s ’s police force , a customs service , and even the bundeswehr has been ordering uniforms from a state-owned factory in st. petersburg , named after the father of red terror and the soviet kgb ’s founder , feliks dzherzinsky . similar examples of such indifferent cynicism abound . by treating lukashenka as a favored business partner on the same assumption that the eu is attempting to isolate it as an international pariah , europe ’s hypocrisy stands naked .
bond yields in southern europe rose , and a pervasive feeling of apprehension and fear of cloaked governments in european capitals . at the time , however , political leadership was being sorely lacking . at long last , decisive action was taken in december . a “ fiscal treaty ” would emerge , one that reinforces both the stability and growth pact , and , crucially , automatic penalties to ensure that eurozone members stick with such rules . at the same time , the european central bank unleashed its € 1 trillion ( $ 1.3 trillion ) long-term refinancing operation , which pulled the european banking system back from the brink .
an analysis by ronald gilson henry hansmann and mariana pargendler of brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s novo mercado – the stock exchange ’s special voluntary listing segment , which provides strong protections for newly enlisted investors , is supporting that view . but stock exchanges have their limits , particularly in brazil . in the absence of reliable courts , they can not sue to enforce their regulations . their sole recourse is to pressure recalcitrant firms off the exchange . the novo mercado addresses this problem , by reallocating its newly-listed firms to arbitration .
new york – january has traditionally been a long time for assessing an earlier year in which to predict what a new one has in store . sadly , while the us may be at a turning point for an improved policy , the data that it has emerged over the past month do not paint a promising picture of the global economy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s short-term prospects . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote still more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
yet , once again , this contradicts traditional trade dynamics , in which one country ’s success shows no hardship for another . in theory , of course , a simultaneous shift in multiple countries toward stem-focused secondary and higher education , with big concomitant productivity gains , could lessen the competitiveness of an economy that made no such effort work . but this scenario is very unlikely , at least in the foreseeable future . in fact , the proliferation of extremely specialized universities in europe has utterly failed to buttress economic growth or employment . and translating comprehensive universities into specialized science-based and technology institutes in the former soviet union and communist china has done nothing to avert an economic catastrophe in those economies .
first , all of this was precipitated by a profound social-welfare crisis : falling output , rising unemployment , large budget deficits , high inflation , and currency devaluation . without a deep crisis , no significant reform was likely . second , a change of government through elections prompted reforms and given democratic legitimacy . reform does not require a state of emergency , as is so often argued . third , reforms require a strong leader , no less than a government .
indeed , with profitability at or near record levels , the corporate sector ’s monetary holdings in the united states piled up two full quarters on their all-time highs , reaching all-time highs and earning very little , if at times , at near-zero interest rates . moreover , because firms have made significant improvements in their operating efficiency and lengthening maturities on their debt , they need a much smaller precautionary savings rate than was the case in the past . nevertheless , one looks at this , the corporate sector in the advanced economies generally , and america in particular is just as strong today as it has been in many years . nonfinancial firms have accomplished their agility and agility mix , which contrasts sharply with the prevailing conditions for some households and governments worldwide that has juxtaposed proper legacy of over-leverage . yet , rather than deploy their plentiful cash in new investments in order to expand capacity and tap new markets – something they have , since the global financial crisis erupted – many corporations have so far favored ( or pressured by activist investors ) giving it back to their shareholders .
fully from the standpoint of economic potential and fundamentals , the case has been much stronger for south korea , a ingenious economic force whose primary liability is the danger that a twin regime of its evil toward the north would collapse and inundate it with starving refugees . the same is true for turkey , with its robust banking sector , a thriving domestic market , growing importance in the middle east and power politics , nato membership bids , the european union ’s design of membership , and ties to its ethnic cousins across central asia . perhaps the most compelling case , in all of them , is that of indonesia , the world ’s two largest muslim state , with a rapidly expanding middle class , relatively stable democratic politics , and an economy that has been a star performer in asia , despite a global recession . from an american perspective , indonesia represents an attractive alternative to russia , one that recently vied with venezuela for “ leadership of the americas ” in a downward cheering section . indonesia , on the other hand , has demonstrated resilience not just economically , but also national .
a good illustration is that an attempt to protect ” ” principle is inherently flawed , for the major powers will always be immune from interference , not only because five are capable of exercising a security council veto , but also because of their intrinsic military power . but this ignores a principle in which no military intervention will ever become legitimate unless it satisfies , among other criteria , treatment of diminishing , not augmenting , human suffering and carrying a war against any of the major powers to protect a afflicted , minority , would certainly trigger a much broader conflagration . the bottom line is that the values matter in international relations , with states placing a high emphasis on fostering values , are exceedingly vulnerable to accusations of hypocrisy . no states that aspires to win others ’ support or cooperation can allow themselves to be seen agreeable double norms . and , worst of all , to be perceived as being soft on those who , like egypt ’s hosni mubarak ’s current military rulers , undertook mass-atrocity crimes against their own citizens .
ssez ’s recent denial that any company operating there was an american fined reinforces the suspicions that hun sen ’s government will continue to turn a blind eye . that may be good for cambodia , but it is bad for cambodia . already , the country ’s ’s ’s worsening record on democracy and human rights threatens its tariff-free approach to europe ’s market , provided through the bloc ’s “ all but arms ” scheme . cambodia ’s last thing , too , is the risk of economic reprisal for helping chinese firms judge a us tariff . yet that seems to be precisely what hun sen ’s government intends to do .
some systemically important economies remain mired in deflation , which is much worse . more than 200 million people remain unemployed , and unemployment is stuck at $ 1.25 million . the global economy risks becoming stuck at a “ new mediocre ” for a protracted period of sluggish growth and feeble job creation . to break free from stagnation , we need a renewed policy momentum . if implemented by the g-20 leaders in rio de janeiro in november , they will lift world gdp growth by just over 2 % by 2018 , the equivalent of adding $ 2 trillion to global income .
should it undergo further simultaneous transformation , as well as enlargement ? what type of relations should nato possess with its partners ? the albright report aspires to meet such questions in a balanced way . she endorses policies that capture an exact relationship between “ “ nato inside the area ” operations and members ’ commitment to their reciprocal self-defense , under article 5 , the north atlantic treaty . it further rightly suggests that nato ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s strategic political and military goals could be achieved jointly with russia through more stability , mutual transparency , predictability , and arms-reduction agreements .
one is a north korean , whose recent behavior has been superfluous and delusional . the north 's koreans have violated their agreements knowing that china , a country with its greatest potential leverage , is most concerned with regime collapse in north korea and therefore with the threat of chaos on its border . japan officially endorses the goal of a non-nuclear world , but relies on america ’s extended nuclear deterrent and wants to avoid being subjected to nuclear blackmail by north korean ( or chinese ) forces . japan worries that the credibility of america 's extended deterrence will be impaired if america 's nuclear force loses its parity with china . nevertheless , it is a mistake to believe that extended deterrence depends on parity in the calculus of nuclear weapons .
berkeley – back at least in the late 1990 ’s , two schools of thought pressed for more rounds of financial deregulation , which was to repealing the dodd-frank bankruptcy of the investment banking system from commercial banks , relaxing banks ’ capital requirements , encouraging the more aggressive creation and use of derivatives . if deregulation looks like such a bad idea now , why was it not then ? the first school of thought , broadly held by a united states ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ republican party , was that financial regulation was wrong , because all regulation was bad . the second , broadly held by the democratic party , was somewhat more complicated and based on four observations : · in the global economy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s industrial core , at least until 60 years , it had more than a minor effect on the overall level of output and employment .
it is grotesque that so many people who stand to benefit from such “ socialist ” policies are still being convinced to vote against them because they are supposedly “ un-american . ” concentrating on egalitarianism would obviously appeal to liberals , but it should not alienate moderate voters either , because more equality would actually be good for the economy . and it might even make a mockery of some angry , poor trump supporters to recognize that his pseudo-populism does not want the left-behind folks in rust belt cities and rural hinterlands . it is about to give even more money to a very few at all . the democrats ’ core message for the next two years should be that , in a plutocracy , everybody else loses .
neither , however , wants to become a “ chicken , ” because that would undermine their domestic political standing and empower the other side . still , without a year of agreement , a clash becomes likely . as the clock back down , a poor outcome becomes more likely . likewise , trump thought that he can bully iran by abandoning its joint comprehensive plan of action and imposing severe sanctions . yet iranians reacted by escalating their regional provocations , knowing full well that trump could not let a full-scale war and the already-oil-price spike resulting from it .
but now the scaf appears to realize that in a leaderless situation , no civilian politician can grant immunity without becoming vulnerable to attacks by hard-line rivals . furthermore , the scaf has placed careful respect for policymakers and dissecting their relative weaknesses , a constrained capability , notorious level of opportunism , and widespread inconsistency . as a result , there is a growing belief within the scaf that its three “ minimum ” imperatives have become both futile and insufficient . during the past two months , scaf ’s behavior toward civilian politicians , civil-society actors , and , more recently , an coptic community , has flagrantly reflected attitude change : “ you need immunity , guidance , and protection from the us – not you like you are ” . the sources of political polarization , sectarian incidents , a weak economy , and no security failure have all ruffled egypt ’s prospects for a successful democratic transition .
higher debt-service costs require a higher marginal tax rate , which in turn weakens incentives and lowers rates of economic growth . by the end of the decade , america will have to pay an amount equal to more than one-third of personal-income tax revenues simply to pay for the us national debt ’s interest . in these same way , foreign investors now hold more than half that debt . paying their interest to them will require sending more goods and services to the rest of the world than america receives from the rest of the world . that requires making a weaker dollar more attractive to foreign buyers and making foreign goods more expensive to american consumers .
indeed , aside from domestic political issues and an issue of internal freedom , the choice among the top candidates hinges on the question in whether iran should push for greater international integration . ahmadinejad stands for a policy of confrontation and partial isolation ; moussavi stands for more “ openness . ” a “ opening up ” policy would thus quickly inject the regime into peril . if ahmadinejad prevails , the dilemma for the west is that it will need to deal with a regime discredited by electoral fraud , yet remains indispensable for resolving almost all of the middle east ’s major problems : iran ’s own nuclear programs and the conflicts in afghanistan , pakistan , lebanon , and palestine . iran is also a key player in cooling the hotspots in the caucasus and central asia .
perhaps the external front ’s most visible gains were on the external front . for example , exports back from 5 % to almost 30 % of gdp , with gdp the share of inward foreign direct investment having tripled . but where this counts – for overall factor productivity and economic growth – is one major disappointment . from 1996 on , per capita economic growth was well under 1.5 % , and overall factor productivity has been stagnating or declining . if ever there was a country destined to be the poster child of the new orthodoxy of economic development , it is mexico .
after all , many asian countries have made impressive export-led growth under the current system . and bilateral or regional trade deals can chip away at some of the many barriers under the existing global system . a fundamental problem , for example , is that the character of global trade is continually evolving , with existing agreements having only a limited adjustment capacity . goods such as education , banking , accounting , and insurance account for an ever-larger share of global output ( now about two-thirds ) , further expansion requires profound changes in existing agreements . indeed , even if asia succeeded relentlessly by exporting manufactures , today ’s poorest countries – especially africa – can realistically export only agriculture and textiles .
a contemporary non-medical writer has described qualities related to intense pain , as including in extreme gadness , the ability to reward sophisticated thoughts and other sensations , the ability to destroy linguistic destruction , and vigorous opposition to objectification . he reminds the physicians that , for a person of suffering intensive pain , what dominates awareness above all else is massive negative sensations . most of this time , pain does occur following simple kinds of nerve endings detect tissue injury across different paths , producing signals that travel to a spinal cord , and from there to a brain . for many years , researchers thought that these signals traveled along several well-defined routes to reach a brain relay station called a thalamus . from here , researchers believed , signals went on to the part of the cerebral cortex , which managed body consciousness and somehow the cortex turned them into conscious experience .
when capital flight forced françois mitterrand to ordering his agenda in 1983 , france ’s then-socialists carried out the abrupt volte-face , and embraced financial liberalization on a globally coordinated period . according to harvard business school ’s rawi abdeldelal , this was the key event that set in motion a wave that ultimately enshrine freedom of capital movements as the global norm . the first to stop was the european union at the end of 1980 ’s , in which two french socialists – jacques delors and pascal lamy ( the president of the european commission and assistant , respectively ) – guided the way . then came its turn on the organization for economic cooperation and development ( oecd ) . in the end , the imf joined the bandwagon under michel camdessus , another frenchmen that served as governor of the bank of france under mitterrand .
within the 15 minutes of general abhisit ’s face fading from a screen , 40 army units in algeria declared their loyalty . men in the barricades were persuaded to abandon their stronghold ; the insurrectionary leaders were either detained or escaped to spain . the defeat of the army ’s revolt came the first time that paris ’s republican authority asserted over pieds noirs who helped bring down the fourth republic . de gaulle ’s firmness , and rhetoric – aided , must make the narrative that umbling among the rebels – established the state ’s primacy . the following day , de gaulle ’s face was drawn but both resolute and electricity .
the diplomatic promotion of palestine , for example , has offered him a lifeline to him . was the israelis really willing to achieve a resurgence of islamist violence in gaza , a potentially breakdown of peaceful politics on the west bank , and now the right of an recognized palestinian state to take israel to the international criminal court for war crimes ? if not , why is they so ham-fisted ? israel appears to be making the same mistake . repeatedly proven , military intimidation by civilians does n’t break their morale and turning them against their own leaders , however terrifying the regime .
fourth , the war in afghanistan has not just proceeded quickly , but has led , at best , to a diplomatic breakthrough . the un will play a central role in renovating a working government in that country , as well as in coordinating the humanitarian assistance provided by the afghan people . the un ’s growing role in that process puts its seal of international laws and diplomacy over a global struggle against terrorism and helping to reassure many countries that this is a true international effort , rather than merely america acting on its own . while those seem to be a grab-bag of accomplishments , they cite a single message : the global community is finding new ways to work together , even against a backdrop of terrorism and global recession . the increasing role of international bodies under the un umbrella provides more confidence that disputes can be addressed , peacefully , and at worst , with major inputs of scientific expertise , as in the treaty on climate change .
with the exception of barely practical political rhetoric from leaders such as hugo chávez in venezuela and evo morales in bolivia , nothing new is on offer in the world ’s electoral marketplace that diverts very different from what is commonly called neo-liberalism or the washington consensus . in other words , there can not be a battle between various projects in any modern country , no left-right confrontation ( with its nuances ) , which may amplify voters ’ minds . here brazil is no different from that of the united kingdom , spain , or uruguay . indeed , brazil ’s upcoming election this year resembles a soccer match among the big teams where one candidate ’s supporters , and another , are mere distinguishing between their shirts ’ colors , because their strongest teams are accepting the rules of the game , and even tactics are similar . according to the socialist sociologist francisco de oliveira , the electoral landscape ’s coldness is closely related to one fact : the “ irrelevance ” of politics , owing to its “ financiarisarisation ” – the ” guiding ” of the party .
but the most profound changes must come from within the media industry itself . because journalists ’ safety directly affects news organizations , freelancers , and audiences , such organizations should report on the topic . with attacks on the press intensifying , the old approach – prideful silence – no longer makes sense . if journalists use their platforms to inform the entire world about the dangers they and their peers face , the world would need to listen . street violence against journalists was historically an issue that left behind headlines .
rome – in 2010 , global leaders coined the millennium development goal ( mdg ) to reduce the world ’s poor to half its 1990 level , five years ahead of schedule . but rising unemployment and falling incomes underscore an enduring threat to poverty worldwide . after all , poverty is not an unalteration of the attribute of a rigid one ; it is a precondition that put billions of vulnerable people at risk . despite their flaws , income actions are helpful in gaining a better understanding of the extent of poverty and vulnerability worldwide . but the world bank ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s $ 1.25 trillion poverty line per day ( in purchasing-power-parity terms ) , which attempts to measure progress toward the mdgs ’ poverty-reduction goal , is not the only relevant figure .
and a policy abundance of policy and regulatory uncertainties will keep private investment spending in check . the outlook for 2014 is as dampened on longer-term constraints as well . in fact , there is a looming risk of secular stagnation across many advanced economies , owing to the adverse spillover effects of productivity growth from years of human and physical capital underinvestment . and the structural reforms that these economies need to boost their potential growth will be implemented far too slowly . while tail risks in the eurozone are lower for the eurozone , its fundamental problems remain unresolved : low potential growth ; persistent high unemployment ; persistently high and rising levels of government debt ; loss of competitiveness and sluggish employment costs ( which a powerful euro does n’t help ) ; and extremely tight credit rationing , owing to banks ’ ongoing deleveraging .
yet realizing that value is a long-term proposition , it is becoming a long-term proposition . more immediately , to get gas to market-making in europe and elsewhere , gas liquefaction plants costing around € 10 billion ( $ 1.1 billion ) in order to build energy , and israeli investors have already voiced interest in loans . the sheer magnitude of cyprus ’s likely energy-riches and the financing that it needs to develop dwarfs the country ’s current financial woes . yes , cyprus needs € 17 billion in order to stay in the eurozone , whereas its annual gdp amounts to only € 23 trillion . but those figures must put the eu ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s gloomy general energy picture , something that ongoing debt negotiations have failed .
syriza is hardly alone in greece in blaming the eu for the country ’s woes . its new democracy and pasok do much in the same way , attack on the eu , “ speculators ” , and hedge funds , anyone who may shift the public ’s attention away from its own responsibility in fueling the crisis . greece ’s largest privately owned media , controlled by the country ’s oligarchs , are happy to oblige . most televised channels thus speak of a bailout deal just like tsipras ’s do : as the proximate cause of austerity , the product of neoliberal dogma . as a result , for far too many in greece , austerity reflects germany ’s deranged obsession with discipline rather than their country ’s profligacy .
after all , it was a tiny case of qatar that brokered lebanon by a domestic settlement , egypt , that mediated the gaza cease-fire , and turkey , which facilitated the israeli-syrian peace talks . israel ’s shift in policy toward syria , and that of french president nicolas sarkozy ’s administration , was a powerful message to the american people that they should not miss the lebanese train in the same way they do . but america ’s ’s dwindling leverage can not match that of the region ’s self-declared “ axis of evil . ” lebanon is far too vulnerable to us pressure from syria and iran , neither of which wants to see its local clients relieve israelis of the burdens of the “ lebanese national front ” before their own grievances are addressed . nor is hezbollah keen to see an end to israel ’s occupation of sheba farms on lebanon ’s border undermine its claim to the country ’s appalling , independent military power built with iranian and syrian assistance .
but with clarida ’s input , the fed will be inclined to focus more on actual inflationary trends , rather than on the rate of official unemployment and its implications , under traditional pattern . moreover , while the fed ’s own members are inclined to believe that america ’s economy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s rate of potential growth rate is very low ( around 1.75-2 % ) , clarida , like powell ’s , seems open to the notion that trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s tax cut and nonregulatory policies , combined with the next wave of technological innovation , will enable somewhat stronger , non-inflationary growth . finally , clarida is spearheading an internal strategy to determine whether the fed should start making below-target inflation during recessions and slow recoveries by allowing above-target inflation during expansionary periods . and , though the review is still on its early stage , the fed already seems to have embraced the notion that it should allow inflation to remain well below 2 % without immediately triggering tightening . taken together , these factors suggest that the fed might remain in the pause mode for the year after 2019 .
it is governments – and therefore taxpayers and bondholders who finance nuclear plants – that finance their nuclear plants . furthermore , supposedly “ saving costs ” of nuclear power never includes the price tag for a straight and indirect governmental subsidies , the decommissioning of aging facilities , and the urgent , punitive and remediation of impacted communities when disaster struck – all else again at taxpayers ’ expense . at fukushima , for example , the bill will include the costs of heroic efforts by hundreds of workers to cool the plant ’s reactors ; protracted losses in the 20-kilometer eradication zone ( estimated at $ 128.5 billion by roubini global economics ) ; decommissioning and clean-up costs ; and a cost of replacing 4.7 gigawatts of generating capacity . at the top of that , the health-care costs resulting from exposure to radioactivity are passed . all of these hidden costs make the nuclear energy price higher than the price of shifting toward renewable energies and improved energy efficiency .
otherwise , they would be stifling debate , by no means necessary . that would run counter to what us universities stand for . as a pragmatic matter , it would backfire , by giving trump camp another opportunity to demonize a “ liberal elite . ” but a clear rule of engagement is a necessary one . the most important principle that must be delineated is the distinction between listening to someone and honoring one .
new york – like an inmate on the death row of europe , europeans have gotten another , last-minute stay of execution . it will survive a bit longer , but more important , for better options . markets are celebrating , because , after each of the four preceding “ european crises ” – up until it comes to an understanding that fundamental challenges have yet to be tackled . there was some good news at this summit : europe ’s leaders finally understood that the bootstrap operation , by which europeans lends money to greece sovereigns , and the retail sovereigns to rescue banks , will not work . likewise , they now recognize that bailout loans that give fresh lender seniority over other creditors worsen the position of private investors that will simply demand even higher interest rates .
munich – last july , germany ’s constitutional court delivered its long-awaited decision on the european central bank ’s “ outright monetary transactions ” program . since its launch in 2012 , the omt scheme allowed the ecb to buy if necessary , with an unlimited number of troubled eurozone countries ’ government bonds – which bars the affected countries subscribe to european rescue rules , the european stability mechanism ( esm ) – the european stability mechanism ( esm ) . thousands of germans had appealed to the constitutional court against the omt program , arguing that it violates section 123 of the “ functioning ” treaty that bars eurozone governments ’ monetary financing , and that it imposes substantial risks on german citizens as german taxpayers . now , the court has declared outright endorses claimants ’ arguments , and the omt program does indeed violate eu primary law . but , rather than issuing formal ruling to amend the bundesbank and the german parliament , as it could have done , the court demanded the european court ’s verdict on the matter .
and the tax on capital gains has fallen by more than 50 % since the 1980s . to build support for high-level public-investment innovation , perhaps taxpayers should get more of a direct return by reversing the gains made in a public-innovation fund to fund another surge of technology . when investment is channeled into upstream core research , spillover effects across industries and sectors sometimes yield plenty of social rewards . other cases , however , may require the creation of alternative incentives . for example , some of the government ’s investment profits at tesla may have recovered through equity ( or royalties ) , using the repayment losses of its investment in solyndra .
if the ecb ’s next leaders do n’t meet them , europe alone will be at risk . complicating matters further , by 2020 , the european commission and the ecb will each have a new president and management teams in their own , and the european parliament will have sat on a new generation of policymakers not participating in previous decades of ’s compromises and reform efforts . by contrast , germany will be elected with a political environment of anger , diminished trust , and intra-eu fragmentation . still , there is a broad consensus that europe will need more than monetary policies to ensure its continued growth and stability . clearly , with near-zero interest rates , angriy/fiscal-policy coordination has become a necessity .
in the event , most social media-enabled popular rebellion failed for them to aspire to effective leadership , and traditional political and army organizations retained the upper hand . in effect , those regimes began to wield social media for their own ends . every one heard of this accusations is that russia covertly uses social media to influence electoral outcomes in ukraine , france , germany , and , most famously , in the united states . facebook has estimated that russia ’s content on its network , covering posts and paying advertisements , has reached 126 million americans , some 40 % of the nation ’s population . we should recall earlier accusations by russia of the western values on fomenting “ color revolutions ” in ukraine and georgia .
but he is not immune to mislead . in 2005 , mahmoud ahmadinejad had relied on khamenei for a full financial and political endorsement to win his presidency . today , however , khamenei appears to be profoundly regretful about that choice . by dismissing his orders , ahmadinejad is trying to discredit him with the public by challenging his authority and undermining key institutions , including the judiciary and parliament . it is an open secret in iranian political circles that khamenei has also regrets permitting the basij militia volunteers to attack the british embassy last november .
but it is less clear whether china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s leaders will recognize this and engage in their country ’s own long-term self-interest . at the same time , the point is not one that sets china out . similar questions are in the hands of india and brazil . and it is not only the developing and emerging countries that need to rethink their attitude toward the world . the us , for its part , must do just that .
nor should one worry that some people are making a lot richer than others . some people work harder , refer to their intelligentsia more skillfully , or simply have been lucky enough to get into the right place at the right time . but i do not see what alternative political-economic arrangements might make individual ’ relative wealth closely correspond to their individual relative moral or other merit . the problems that might be tackled stem from poverty and social insurance — from providing a safety net rather than from inequality . on the level of individual society , however , i am convinced that inequality does loom as a serious political-economic problem .
more broadly , though , her point is that the us needs the fsoc to get its job done , by looking for and assessing all kinds of potential systemic risk . that needs to be done as a technical matter , rather than a part of a political process . not everyone in the sec is as sensible as stein does . there is also some friction among america ’s different regulators , and no doubt we need more coordination across national borders , including with europe . but the real risk is that powerful us lobbies working through congressional members , pushing back hard on the fsoc and its mandate .
a final factor driving the iohannis ’s victory was a younger generation , in which ties to the western world have imbued an eagerness to see genuine democratic progress in romania . when the results were made , their euphoria became overwhelming . in bucharest ’s university square , the celebration recalled the energy of 1989 ; it was the sound of an awakened electorate , conscious of its earlier blunders and prepared for a fresh start . iohannis may also have benefited , to some extent , from an association of voters with the german hohenzollern kings , who has ruled romania wisely , and with dedication over 80 years . and , indeed , upon learning of his victory , iohannis promptly paid an invitation to king michael i ( the hohenzollern prince , until he renounced the title in 2011 ) .
whereas tens of millions of chinese youngsters display impressive innate proficiency , a country ’s premier system of higher learning does its abysmal work cultivating its talents . for most , a curriculum is mostly obsolete and skewed toward rote learning at the expense of fundamental analytical and critical-thinking capabilities . educational attainment in the social sciences and humanities has been particularly deficient , owing to a lack of investment by such disciplines and overclose policy control of curricula . as a result , a chinese student from us colleges and universities has learned relatively little of the outside world in fields like anthropocene , sociology , international relations , comparative literature , and history . unless china ’s ossified system reforms , the country will be unable to produce sufficiently trained talent to compete against the world ’s best and brightest .
such reforms will create new markets , spur competition , attract foreign investment and technology transfers , and improve consumer interests . finally , global economic conditions will compel japan to pursue even more restructuring . meanwhile , japan has committed to further liberalization of its markets under the wto . while export-led expansion delivered through this century ’s growth , import substitution and inward foreign direct investment ( fdi ) will , over time , lead to a sharp rise in japan ’s productivity performance . imports inspire a more competitive domestic business environment .
i believe that it is good for the west to learn by studying policies persecuted in the world ’s only two middle classes of moslem states , tunisia and indonesia , because each successfully disavowed their prey on islamic fundamentalism . tunisia ’s achievement is noteworthy in view of its proximity to violence-prone algeria . both countries combined a substantial increase in secular education with rapid job creation ; stressed rural development and labor-intensive exports ; and pursuing rapid , egalitarian development . egalitarian evolution from this sort of sort is the only viable answer to moslem world ’s mal-development challenges . nonetheless , it provides no short-run answer to terrorism for a few reasons : it fails to supply an ideology that is compelling enough to compete against a form of fundamentalism that has captured at least two generations in an interdependent world .
new haven – yet another in a long line of negative inflationary surprises is beside the point . in the united states , the so-called core cpi ( consumer-price indices ) , which excludes food and energy , took down just as it was supposed to climb . over the three months ending in may , the core cpi was essentially unchanged , held , at a mere 1.7 % above its year-earlier level . for an american economy widely assumed to be nearing the hallowed ground of full employment , this is a rude wake-up call , particularly for the us federal reserve , which pulled all the stops to bring inflation back toward its 2 % target . halfway around the world , a similar story continues to play out in japan .
the nobel laureate economist amartya sen traces the origins of an indian democratic dialogue to a third-century bbc buddhist emperor alshoka . he also contrasts religious tolerance preached and is practiced by muslim emperor akbar in the 1590 ’s with the inquisition hounding heretics in europe simultaneously . at the same time , our assumptions about asia ’s relative prosperity and the west should be rethought . just as recently as 200 years ago , asia accounted for more than 60 % of global gdp . following the northwestern european industrial revolution , however , the colonization of much of asia , and the opium wars of china , their relative posts switched .
the core protectionist regulatory institution for outward treasury financing was in no way occupied until the 1930 ’s - era after american financial markets grew to the point that it had financed america ’s economic rise . britain and japan appeared to have followed the same sequence : finance first , protective institutions later . japan had no corporate law until the complexities of business finance began in the late nineteenth century . yet that sequence is just the opposite of what one might expect : after financial markets developed had those with stakes in them a press for better regulation to protect investors . hence , in britain , japan and switzerland , something more foundational had to have been in place before financial markets started function .
not even with a lack of sufficient expenditures , insufficient spending was never an issue . from 1998 to 2007 , greece ’s annualized per capita gdp growth averaged 3.8 % , the second-fastest for western europe after only ireland . but , until 2007 , greece was spending more than 14 % of gdp in excess of what it generated , europe ’s largest such gap – more than twice that of spain and 55 % above that of ireland ’s . in spain and ireland , albeit the gap reflected a construction boom ; the euro accession had suddenly granted people access to much cheaper mortgages . in greece , by contrast , the gap was mostly fiscal , not investment .
true , the quality of democratic governance may sometimes be augmented by a reduction in the discretionary capacity of elected representatives . well-functioning democracies often delegate rule-making power to quasi-independent bodies when issues are technical , and fail to quell distributional fears ; when log-rolling would otherwise produce suboptimal outcomes for all ; or when policies are subject to myopia , with heavy discounting from future costs . the independent central banks provide an important illustration of this . it may be up to elected politicians to determine the inflation-targeting goal , but the means deployed to achieve that goal are left to central-bank technocrats . even then , central banks typically remain accountable to policymakers and must provide accounting when the targets are missed .
first , it is important to realize that a strong , overly volatile currency is not simply a central bank ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s problem to repair . while the central bank bears a good part of the responsibilities , it needs the support of other parts of the government , most notably from the finance ministry . maintaining a competitive currency requires rising domestic savings relative to investment or declining national expenditures relative to incomes . otherwise , the gains from rising inflation would be offset by the gains from competitiveness . that means fiscal authorities bear considerable responsibility : target a structural fiscal surplus that is high enough to generate the space needed for a real exchange-rate depreciation .
there is something about the narrative , the sex-symbol sacrificing one ’s fetishized breasts to favor her children , with her husband remaining behind her , that is profoundly reassuring to women in western cultures . one can credibly say , however , that jolie ’s decision will alter the roles at which she is an actress . just as enthusiastically get the global mass media to pass her choice , it is nonetheless exceedingly difficult in the west for the women to be portrayed as maternal – let alone physical “ flawed ” or “ impaired ” – and also an act of fantasy sex object . but jolie ’s real significance is its context : a wave of women and men , in very different settings across the world insisting on narrating their own meanings for events involving their bodies , events that , like breast cancer , have once been shrouded in shame , silence , fear , or guilt . jolie ’s refusal to treat mastectomy as inimical or tragic , or as making her “ less-than-woman ” ” ” ” in whatever form .
it is this danger , which sets practical , policy limits to a flexible exchange rate . some of the depreciation may be able to manage most deficit countries ; but a vicious circle could start if a domestic currency loses too fast . private-sector ballooning deficits would weaken the financial sector , and the resulting strain on public finances would compel more austerity , thereby undermining consumer demand and causing additional damaging damage to firms ’ ’ ’ ’ balance sheets . to avoid such crises , this is why the exchange rate must be manageable and , in the way that ultimately , depends on a country ’s ’s specific circumstances . the large net central-bank reserve reserves may help to ease the process , but the result can be avoided .
free speech tends to defend laws in america more effectively than in any other country in the world . but barr ’s show has not been a legal choice , not a legal choice . after all , the limits to free speech are not simply legal . entertainment firms , or the mass media , are generally sensitive to public opinion . people are prone to firing , for commercial reasons , if something that they have said is offensive to a large number of people .
not one person does not have a muslim majority ; nor does one have a muslim majority . this phenomenon has been observed within the muslim world quite as well . a team of arab scholars produced an arab human development report written in the name of the un development program and the arab fund for economic and social development . it portrays the arab world lagging behind other regions in key measure , including individual freedom and women ’s empowerment , in addition to economic and social development . troubling trends , such as a demographic youth “ bulge ” combined with a high youth unemployment rate -- reaching nearly 40 % in some places -- highlight potentially explosive social conditions .
but , owing to the global balance of power , this was more symbolic than reflecting their actual influence . then came the cold war 's end , when all europe adopted a staunch transatlantic orientation . from the perspective of us security , europe remained so dependent on america . on the economic and technological fronts , however , europeans regained their sovereignty . institutionally , this division of labor manifests itself in nato and the eu .
he announced that he had hired eyal arad , a well-known israeli spin-physician , to run his own presidential campaign . “ the jews ” were not his enemies any more , he said ; they were even working for him . but tudor did not stop with pro-lix apologies . he soon sponsored an unveiling bust of a assassinated israeli premier yezak rabin , in transylvania . for the occasion , tudor wore the yarmulke , speak of his “ philo-semitism ” for over two hours .
and independent african investigative journalists have often subjected to high-level corruption , abuses of power , and shady business deals . in kenya , for example , a leading local paper reported that philip kinisu , a former chairman of the ethics and anti-corruption commission , received suspicious payments made by a national youth service . further investigations into the nba exposed more corrupt deals , pressuring kenyans to take to the streets in protest . but those with power are aware of how to fight back – and are not pulling their punches . as a result , in many african countries , a free press is under threat , being stifled , and even dismantled .
china ’s economy has succeeded through trial and error , with lessons from its current stress test being viewed as part of that process by propelling the next phase of economic reform . one key lesson is that chinese stock markets remain structurally biased toward state ownership and guidance , even as the country builds an increasingly dysfunctional economy . this is fundamentally problematic , because it is a market ( rather than a nation-state ) that identifies and supports a “ unicorns . ” nonetheless , as china has already started to build a more innovative manufacturing and internet-driven retail sector , the state can still play a role in fostering innovation . but , as the government determines how to offload its massive share of share buybacks in orderly fashion , it needs to ensure that such an effort is financed by equity , not leverage , enhancing the market ’s balance and resilience .
his sudden departure as a result of illness might give rise to a political vacuum that could turn into some form of power politics or another , like a military coup . rigid adherence to the constitutional provision of any such eventuality is imperative . so the absence of a free and fair election is particularly alarming . it is crucial that opposition can freely air its message and target prospective voters , a point not lost on chávez ’s regime as it seeks to curtail further opposition ’s ability to reach out to voters . the recent attack on globovision , venezuela , ’s only surviving independent station , stands out in this respect .
cambridge – what a difference ten years make . during the 1990 ’s , private investors looked big , revealingly central banks as their cash cows , long in money , and short in financial acumen . george soros once made billions of dollars away from the bank of england in just one hour . his fundamental strategy was the standard one : bet against any central bank that tries to defend inconsistent macroeconomic policies . merchants had not won every battle , certainly in theory .
yet , contrary to expectations , household consumption growth has remained lackluster , and companies have not ramped up their investments . in the first two quarters of this year , america ’s gdp has barely surpassed that attained at the end of last year , with much of the increase being driven by goods that were made but not yet sold . the prevailing explanation , then , is a kind of brutally cold winter , exercise so thin that everyone should see through it . at the same time , american consumers remain scarred by this crisis , with full impact . but there is another problem : in their houses and at the top , a feeling of excitement about the future is missing , despite all the gee-whiz gadgetry that now envelops them .
nowhere is the need to overcome the financing bottlenecks more evident than with germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s energiewende ( energy transition ) program . to succeed , over € 30 billion or more of gdp will have to be invested annually in network infrastructure , renewable-energy generation , the combined heat and power systems , and storage technologies in the decades to come . while some of this money will come from their public budgets , the vast majority will need to be provided by the private sector . moreover , bringing germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s digital infrastructure , particularly its broadband network , up to international standards will require massive investments , which an improved regulatory framework might help to spur . regulatory reform is also necessary to win support for startup companies , an area in which germany is notoriously weak , reflecting the hardship such firms face in acquiring venture capital .
beijing – is china poised to surpass the united states in becoming the world ’s largest economy ? the international monetary fund recently predicted that the size of china ’s economy will overtake america ’s in purchasing-power-parity ( ppp ) terms by 2016 . but a recent co-authored study by robert feenstra , an economist at the university of california , davis , shows that the global economic leadership passes for the us in 2014 . and even more radically , arvind subramanian of the peterson institute for international economics argues that china , in 2010 , has actually overtaken the us in ppp terms . purchasing power parity measures a country ’s per capita income , using a subset of international prices that applies to all economies .
but one should not leap to conclusions . an equilibrium in energy imports and exports merely act as an early approximation of independence . as i argue in my book the future of hard power , the global interdependence involves both sensitivity and vulnerability . an american might be less vulnerable in the long run if it imports less energy , but its oil is fungible commodity , and america ’s economy will remain sensitive to shocks from abrupt changes in world prices . in other words , a revolution in saudi arabia , or a blockade of the strait of hormuz , could continue to inflict harm on america and its us allies .
the region ’s amazon and indonesian rainforests are burning , with climate catastrophes like typhoons , tornadoes , and floods intensifying , with dire consequences for entire populations . following their targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , america might well find itself with no alternative but to devote still more military resources to the middle east , a path that might lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to us interests elsewhere in the world . a targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now .
the bottom may be near , perhaps by the end of the year . but that does not mean that the global economy is set for a robust recovery no time soon . now a shudder at the bottom is no reason to abandon vigorous action aimed at revitalizing the global economy . that downturn is a complex one : an economy combined with a financial crisis . prior to its onset , america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s debt-ridden consumers was the engine of global growth .
tackling the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s environmental and ecological challenges , as well as improving the lot of those left behind , will require public action , such as that i oversaw in my roles at the world bank , the un , and the british government . but , at the same time , it will demand that business participation be brought into play . in my own career , i saw firsthand that trade-fueled growth in a globalizing world can do far more to tackle poverty , hunger , and disease than government-sponsored programs alone . but when that competition does not operate responsibly , the opposite can happen , and in many cases it has . in seizing the opportunities for globalization , companies have often been neglected by the developed-world workers they are leaving behind while subjecting developing-country workers to extraordinary deprivation .
but , again , it would be an incendiary move , to be sure . many leavers would already see this as an anti-democratic coup . and because it would reverse the 2016 referendum result , such a step would necessitate a new plebiscite of pittsburgh remains against no deal . with luck , johnson ’s scorched-earth tactics would spur his all-but-disparate adversaries into overcoming their differences in order to halt the no-deal brexit . but , no matter how obvious , the pragmatic center that remains squeezed from british politics .
to support such efforts , we urge un secretary-general antónio guterres to appoint a “ ocean representative , ” tasked with improving ocean governance , and ensure that sdg 14 ’s full potential is realized . such a representative needs to carry out sufficient resources to do the job . for decades , the ocean has suffered through abuse and neglect . it has been treated like a free-for-all bin hood and race-to-bottom buffet . the us financed its destruction , with no regard to the consequences .
when their crops fail , the large number of farmers and agricultural workers laid low by the crushing burden of debts ( often incurred to usurious rates of rural money ) were committing suicide – as more than 11,400 did in 2016 . that is the final year for which official tobacco-related data are available , but the media reports suggest that numbers have grown since . in fact , the bjp ’s biggest victims of neglecting agriculture have been the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s small and marginalized farmers , in the form of landless farm labor . these groups were dealt a body blow two years ago by modi ’s quitless and foolhardy demonetization scheme , which abruptly withdrew 86 % of india ’s ’s currency from circulation overnight . everyday wage workers , traditionally put themselves in cash , lost their jobs to the hundreds of dollars because the replacement currency had not printed in adequate numbers .
with six billion human beings and computation , plus our individual consumption increasing , we face immense challenges in using our natural resources sustainably . and there is one clear-eyed measure of how we perform on this task : the extinction rate . for this reason , some colleagues and i calculate the rates at which babies have become extinct in the recent past and the rate at which they are likely to become extinct in the future . bird extinctions are our best window on humanity ’s massive , irreversible ecological impact . for every one of the world ’s 10,000 bird species can be ten or perhaps even a hundred other unknown species of animals , power stations , or fungi .
and , finally , perhaps most important , they enable their users to perceive the patterns and opportunities that would become impossible to rediscover through traditional forms . cognitive systems are inspired by the human brain , an organ that still has much to teach us . with systems to grow in size and complexity , the traditional computer architecture appears to be reaching its limits as power soars and transmission delays between components become increasingly burdensome . indeed , when it comes to energy efficiency – measured by the number of computations per energy efficiency units on “ unstructured ” data – the human brain has carried roughly 10,000 times as much as the best man-made machinery . today , computers consume about 10 % of the world ’s electricity output , according to mark mills , ceo of the digital manufacturing association .
munich – discussions are now underway to establish a system of common deposit insurance for eurozone banks . proponents of the scheme , with both the european commission and the ecb ( ecb ) taking the lead , note that deposit insurance will avert the risk of running on the banks in times of crisis . while this argument is certainly correct , critics emphasize the mismatch in risk , owing to the high ratio of bad loans on banks ’ balance sheets in several countries . addressing this risk disparity and moving forward with a plan now , balance sheets will have to smooth out before considering the next step . whereas greece ’s share of bad loans to banks in stable eurozone countries is just 2 % , most recently published by the international monetary fund ’s statistics , as revealed by last april 11 % for ireland , 16 % for cyprus , and 46 % for greece .
she is in jail because she has lost that force . this sets a dangerous precedent , because it creates powerful incentive – the victor takes all ; the loser goes to jail for ruthlessness . a hard time to predict how tymoshenko ’s case will play out , whether yanukovych will succumb to the pressure from the european union and the united states to lay off , or the forces who are willing to exclude her from politics forever . until very recently , ukrainian leaders had been used to make themselves more efficient means than to jail with their inconvenient opponents . in 2000 , for example , the journalist jan grabadze abducted and beheaded after online reporting on high-level government corruption .
for an innovation is what creates wealth and employment , notwithstanding -- or because of -- competition from poor countries . and increased wealth in the rich countries helps the poor through greater demand for their goods . this virtuous circle continues to see globalization ’s enemies as actually a vicious one , fueling exploitation of the world ’s poor and vulnerable . it is this that the questions posed by universal principles of justice and human rights are entering the debate . no doubt there is a strong case for a universal , impartial application of values .
that is why abe has been the first foreign politician after british prime minister theresa may ’s government to rush for trump to congratulate trump on his behavior in march 2017 . in some important respects , japan has benefited enormously from being an american wing , with the postwar constitution giving little more democratic significance than anything that the country had historically , enshrining individual rights and full suffrage , as well as freedom of speech . constitutionally unable to participate in military adventures , except as a highly paid commodity producer during america ’s various asian conflicts , japan , rather like those in western europe , could focus on re-building its own industrial power . but , as a result , america ’s democracy remains proud to installing post-1945 interference , too . like italy , japan has stood on the frontlines in the cold war .
all of this economic legerdemain has been magnified by a series of tv , print and internet journalists . aside from a small amount of good narrative in the business press , it is hard to argue that anybody reading or listening to english-language media coverage may have learned anything particularly interesting , or relevant , to the question of whose economic policies were probably better for america . at the same time , the economics profession bears part of the blame for this . nobel prize winners like edward prescott have no business talk about the merits of tax cuts without pointing out that a growth-accompanied tax cut is not really a tax cut at all ; rather , a tax shift toward the future – and a fiscal shift to the future – and a fiscal shift that raises risks and discourages the accumulation . but much of the problem arises from an under-briefed , a undereducated , and an uncurious press corps .
so far , they have failed abysmally in institutional nation-building , the necessary requirement for any successful national movement . palestinian nationalism is ingrained in the consciousness of a majority of palestinians , and yet since the un ’s proposed partitioning of british palestine into two nation-states , both jewish and arab , has utterly failed to shift away from ideology toward reality . neither violence nor terrorism depends on outside powers ( the un , the arab league , the soviet union , the us ) has succeeded in delivering statehood that a people can accomplish only through their own agency , what the zionist ideology called auto-emancipation . fayyad is the first palestinian leader to emerge from the fatah movement and hence may understand what other palestinian leaders have failed to comprehend , mired as they were through a noxious combination of self-righteous ideology and violence . it may simply be that the palestinians are on the brink of a fresh chapter in their history and , more often , in israel ’s history and the entire region .
at the same time , any diplomatic effort to denuclearize north korea must alleviate china ’s geostrategic fears about the korean peninsula ’s future . for centuries , china worried that the peninsula might become part of a encirclement chain , it could serve as an invasion route . in 1592 , japan ’s general toyotomi hideyoshi had invaded the korean kingdom to establish a kind of beachhead for invading china . in response , under a ming dynasty , china fought alongside korea against the imperial chinese army . three centuries later , china ’s qing dynasty fought the sino-japanese war of 1894 to prevent japan from dominating korea .
but it is a slant that the merits attention , because the problem can not be solved with conventional policy responses alone . an official ” official ” narrative of technology treats accelerating change as inevitable . according to acronymically titled institutions , think tanks , task forces , spacehoc genus omne , automation , and artificial intelligence ( ai ) , respectively , will soon eliminate or modify a vast but unpredictable range of human employment . simultaneously , embracing new technologies is deemed indispensable for a country of ’s ’s geopolitical and competitive transition . thus , the disruptions to current patterns of work should be welcomed and “ mitigated , ” ” by adapting education and social-security systems to the needs of an automation-driven employment market .
first , develop , sustain , and hampers local capabilities and leadership . developing scientific and technological capacities is less difficult than sustaining , and sustaining it is less challenging than utilizing it . still , the ultimate impact of science and technology depends on all three factors . so africa ’s nations need to invest in scientific and technological education and skills training . at the same time , every nation needs to devise strategies that offer scientists and technologists local opportunities .
a code of conduct across the field , where we expect players to hand out all under explicit regulations swiftly enforced by independent referees , is fundamentally the same as what we expect from governing bodies off the field . in this sense , fifa makes no special case : all nonprofits and for-profit organizations worldwide expect to adhere to that code of conduct . and it is one that fifa ’s problems are unlikely to recur . they need to be head-on , with the clean sweep of its leadership and an embedded overhaul of its governance structures . fifa is as complex as any big multinational or public organization ; how it is governed must reflect that .
in the west , young people have largely hollowed out a self-delivered physical morning newspaper , instead catching up on news whenever they had chosen , using tablets , laptops , or mobile telephones . as advertising revenues were vacuumed by internet giants facebook and google , newspaper profit generation plunged . the industry faced many bankruptcies in recent years , with those that remain operated often to set up large staffers , particularly in their foreign leeds . in the united states , the number of full-year journalists dropped by just 20 % since the age of 2001 . even a few newsrooms have shut down or been publishing only online .
people came out of the baltic countries in the 1940s , hungary in 1956 , chile after its 1973 coup , and iran after its 1979 revolution . for decades , the swedish industrial has depended on an immigrant workforce . sweden opened its doors during the bosnian war of the 1990s to some 100,000 people , a challenge no later , far less during an era of profound economic crises . but that still has gone well : bosnian immigrants have fared roughly as much , if not more , than the swedes who received them in order to have enriched our societies . during this new century , refugees increasingly came from the middle east and the horn of africa .
one-third of these companies acquired a tech company at the beginning of 2015 . at the same time , foreign firms are rushing to seize the benefits of european companies as an tech talent . google , facebook , and amazon have all announced significant expansions in their european tech hubs . transactions worth over $ 88 billion took in financing last year , compared to just $ 3.3 trillion in 2014 , including sofia ’s purchases of the brics ’ <UNK> tor-design company and the qualcomm ’s $ 47 billion in purchasing hxp semiconductors today . a further study by the boston consulting group highlights the reality that a number of small export-oriented european union member countries – namely , the benelux , the baltic countries , and the nordic countries – rank well over the american sub-continent in so-called “ e-intensity , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” which covers infrastructure , internet access , as businesses , consumer , and government engagement in internet-related operations .
the people ’s dream of china is no exception , and it is n’t the chinese politician who can be heard from the outside world . so far , public reaction has ranged from puzzlement to derision . after a decade of rule by the slogan , the chinese public wants it . this presents xi with a very real challenge , with the support of the party . he has risen to the top by winning friends and allies within the ccp .
the demonstrations begin in major cities , calling for an end to corruption among party officials . china ’s government decides not to risk further strife and announces a package of measures to boost economic growth and avoid layoffs , including direct financial backing from us exporters and intervention in currency markets to weaken the renminbi . in america , president mitt romney has just taken office , following the hardline campaign in which he has derailing barack obama for being too soft on china ’s economic policies . the combination of financial contagion from europe , already leading to a severe credit crunch , with a sudden flood of low-priced imports from china , leaves the romney administration in a bind . against his advice by his council of economic advisers , announcements across-the-board import duties on chinese exports .
why would the administration continue to flex backward to be lenient toward the top bankers under such circumstances ? indeed , i am not inclined to believe that the administration ’s stance reflects any form of corruption , payments made to individuals , or even to political campaigning . nor does it even appear to reflect the lobbying power of the big finance players . that power surely explains why the dodd-frank financial reforms enacted in 2010 were not stronger , and why there is now so much opposition to effective implementation of that legislation ( such as a massive struggle over the volcker rule , for example , to curtail proprietary trading by megabanks ) . mortgage lenders ’ criminal work , however , is another matter .
in fact , much of what has happened in bosnia – including the effort , in its aftermath of a realization , to realize concepts of universal justice – has the applications of the contemporary world . indeed , it is possible that those who recall the bosnian war can identify many of its features in syria today . like bosnia , syria appears hopelessly divided among warring factions , with violence that appears to be unstoppable . indeed , the international community has been unable to achieve any unity of action , far less agreement on a path forward . to be sure , there are important differences as well .
given china ’s own history of hurting foreign intervention , a unilateral american effort to maintain overwhelming offensive supremacy would merely trigger an increasingly destabilizing arms race . some american strategists advocate , in large part , a technocratic solution to this dilemma . their approach , called a “ air-sea fight , ” ” implies a mix of defense and offensive instruments to address novel challenges posed by archesion-strike proliferation . officially , the pentagon does not direct the notion of a “ air-sea fight ” vis-à-vis any specific country . for example , iran ’s hold of precision-strike capabilities , and a far more hostile relationship with america , would warrant new american initiatives to cope with growing security vulnerability .
should she assume an important role on this early stage ? or should she pursue a measure of happiness as a woman ? ms. watanabe gives her her the daughter the nudge she needs to use . ms. watanabe has a genius for see how the tide turns out to be . her advice captures the opportunity at work as well as finding happiness in marriage and children .
though we can and will continue to fight corruption , we can not do everything alone . there is a critical push for international support for our effort . a positive sign here is a recent decision by the european bank for reconstruction and development ( ebrd ) to provide $ 215 million for all nuclear power stations at rivne and khmelnysky , which will compensate for a loss of chernobyl ’s generating capacity . at the same time , euroatom is aided by a $ 585 million loan to finance remedial adjustments at ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s functioning nuclear-power plants . in return , ukraine will uphold its end of the bargain : apart from closing chernobyl , we introduce western nuclear-safety standards and renew cooperation with the imf through an extended fund facility .
russians wanted to make the difference and spectacularly they had done : their energy and cohesion had put an end to communist rule . to be sure , what russia possessed during the late 1980 's and early 1990 's was not institutionalized democracy but a revolutionary agitation . out of this sea of democratic emotion new institutions were expected to emerge . instead , political life was reduced to a mere formality . while there is nothing like soviet oppression , the estrangement between the state and society resembles that of the soviet days .
berlin – over a year into the arab revolts , their outcomes remain highly precarious . yet some initial lessons for international politics – and for the west , particularly europe – merit serious consideration . nearly everyone caught the revolts by the revolts , though they were quite well known by the political and socioeconomic causation factors . as is often true in crises that become systemic , we knew the phenomena , but failed to distinguish their interactions , in part because policymakers and analysts are reluctant to anticipate the ruptures : the familiar holds would be permanent , even when the problematic is known . ( consider saudi arabia , which the united states and much of the west continue to regard as an island of “ stability . ” )
when markets tightened in 2011 , many projects their prospects waning , spurring lgfvs to seek credit in the shadow-banking sector , causing their borrowing costs to soar , and introducing new market-based challenges to the reform process . nonetheless , because china is a net lender of last resort to economies , lgfv debt does not have global systemic implications . while china ’s outstanding local-government debt totaled cn ¥ 29 trillion ( $ 4.7 trillion ) at the end of 2011 , its land and fixed assets is worth some cn ¥ ¥ ¥ ¥ 90 trillion , implying that even if asset values were to be written off by one-half , local governments would remain insolvent . that leaves only the question of debt-servicing problems . to resolve it , the authorities have announced fiscal reforms to distribute revenues between the central and local governments , thereby enabling local governments to issue long-term municipal bonds .
the domination of free-market ideology prior to the crisis allowed for many controversial social changes , ranging from income inequality and intensified wage competition to greater gender equality and affirmative action , to go nearly unchallenged . so “ progressive ” social liberalism and its “ conservative ” ” free-market economics seemed for two sides of the same coin . but when free-market economic liberalism failed in the us during the 2008 crisis , it was political challenge to social liberalism that could no longer deflate by invoking impersonal laws of economic rights . yet , as long as social change can no longer be legitimized as a precondition for economic progress , democracies seem unlikely today to vote to reinstate social-democratic conditions prior to the ascendancy of economic liberalism and globalization . meanwhile , racial and gender equality today is backed by a clear cast in america , britain , and most european countries , and even apparently popular policies , such as trade protectionism and rigid immigration controls , seldom muster over 30-40 % in opinion surveys .
just as we predicted nearly 100 years ago , when china struggles to attain gdp growth above 5 % in the 2021-2030 period , for the simple reason that its labor force growth will have peaked . while the pessimists will undoubtedly find validation in an additional chinese growth disappointments that is to come , optimists might point to the fact that , say , 5 % annual growth in china is nominally equivalent to 15-20 % in germany . in fact , at this stage in china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s development , faster growth would actually turn out to be quite extraordinary . it is as predictable as india begins to grow at far more rapidly than china ’s , simply because its workforce still has much growing left to work . the real question , then , is whether india can implement vigorous productivity-enhancing reforms .
equally important is contextual intelligence , which enables a leader to vary the mix of such abilities in various situations to produce the kind of successful combinations that i have called smart power . during his campaign , obama displayed these skill sets in his calm responses to crises , his aspirational vision , and his super-b ’s organizational capabilities . moreover , his contextual intelligence on world politics was shaped from the bottom line with expertise in indonesia and kenya , and his understanding of american policy was shaped from the bottom lines as a community organizer in chicago . obama went on to prove these leadership skill in his near-insincere transition . by choosing his primary opponent , hillary clinton as her secretary of state and reaching across party lines to retain robert gates as defense secretary , he demonstrated openness to powerful subordinates .
with pakistan ’s economy mired in a tailspin , and with the culture of jihad of so many young pakistanis undermining the country ’s international credibility , moderate votes are at long last tearing it apart . the eminent columnist amin m. lakhani argued recently , pakistan ’s largest-circulation newspaper , that “ pakistan ’s singular preoccupation with kashmir has been self-defeating . domestically thwarted the country ’s economic , social , and political evolution . internationally , [ it ] diminished the country ’s stature and left its reputation bemeared . even its spiritual development warped with the proliferation , populating , and increasing relative power … from religious groups representing an intolerant , militant , and gender-based interpretation of islam . ”
gref ’s program , too , is also emblematic of a presidential-style : modernization from above -- ie , that initiated by the government and led by his pressure -- matches a form of modernization from beneath private initiative . undeniably liberal thinking dominate the program : strengthening and protecting property rights , encouraging deregulation , and encouraging competition . moreover , gref ’s agenda seeks to establish efficient private land ownership . de-bureaucratization ( “ de-bureaucratization , ” really ) will make life easier for new enterprises , by reducing the number of inspections imposed by bureaucrats , and by shrinking demands for licenses and other forms of red tape ( which were also large sources of bribery ) . enhancing competition will mean placing the emphasis on antitrust policies and reducing state subsidies .
the pattern starts with looking better : a new crisis , fresh meetings in brussels , an early reaction , debates , and divisions and then a gradual , step-by-step way of step-by-step progress towards a common response , fueled by a realization that there is no other alternative . in today ’s disagreements lie in the roots of a stronger union . the public no longer thinks of the european project as some sort of utopian design , an abstraction for ever-closer union . increasingly , the eu is coming down as practical a – and absolutely vital – mechanism for working together to meet its collective challenges . indeed , the eu ’s people are awakening to a world more dangerous , divided , and disdirected .
in other words , could i have followed in the footsteps of a few of my harvard colleagues who traveled to libya to exchange views with and advising its dictator , paving the way for his service ? in recent weeks , these scholars have been pilloried for supposedly having cozied up to qaddafi . sir howard davies chose to resign as lse ’s director , which awarded saif his doctorate ( of whom some allege was plagiarized ) , taking money for the libyan regime . there is widespread sentiment that academics and institutions collaborating with this odious regime – often with input from their own governments – have , no doubt , suffered a grave lapse in judgment . muammar el-qaddafi ’s murderous attitude during the uprising exposed his true colors , regardless of his more moderate posture in recent years .
back in 2016 , obama faced difficult choices in estimating the escalatory potential of reacting to either cyber action or cross-industry reaction like us sanctions . nor was the administration reluctant to take steps that might themselves disrupt . thus , eight days before the vote , america sent a warning to russia for electoral meddling over the hotline – created three years earlier to negotiate a major cyber incidents that link the two countries ’ nuclear-risk reduction centers . because russian hacking activity appeared to slow or stall , the obama administration cited the warnings as a successful exercise in deterrence . nonetheless , some critics suggest that the russians had already met their key goals .
once it is established , support would be made accessible to humanitarian workers and educators developing immediate learning plans to deliver children affected by emergencies on the basis of emergencies , based on the recognition that humanitarian , development , and security needs can no longer be tackled in silos . an injection of financing , supporting a shared strategy , developed in partnership with governments , would enable immediate education delivery in emergencies . as a result , the fund would fill the gap in coordinating and delivering services at its weakest moment , providing a bridge to longer-term development . had this initiative been put in place before ecuador ’s earthquake struck last year , it could have provided 12 months of emergency support , helping the country until it could reinstate education on its national agenda . in an increasingly protracted crisis like that of syria , a funding platform could help neighboring countries establish , with the international community ’s backing , a long-term funding strategy , perhaps through brokering an arrangement whereby donor governments could pay principal more than 30 years on concessional loans from the world bank .
for all his profound emotional attachment to the notion of israel embracing all historic judea and samaria , rabin knew that the only way to ensure a democratic jewish state with a viable , secure frontiers were acceptance of the palestinian state , alongside it , equally secure and viable . jerusalem would share jerusalem as a kind of capital and find a mutually acceptable solution to the enormously sensitive issue of return to palestinian refugees . what rabin ’s assassination was a catastrophe from which the peace process has never recovered . no israeli leader since demonstrated anything like his far-sighted vision , his commitment , and the capacity to deliver a negotiated two-state solution . ehud barak and ehud olmert came close , but nowhere near sufficient .
some might think that this might be true only if the logical end of evolution and intelligent life were to harbor a nuclear explosive device that pulverized earth . but that is not what the schneider and sagan mean . instead , they differentiate between matter and power , saying that matter , organized within structure disseminates power gradients faster than randomly divided matter . as one example , they regard a certain example of the beer drinkers ’ phenomenon as having long been observed . if you wish to blank away your bottle of water ( or beer ) , and turn it down , the water comes along with the uneven runoff .
argentina 's conception as a country with an infinite promise has become a desaparecido , the name given to those who vanished during the " dirty war of the 1970 's . " we lost the organizing principle , and there was no other way to replace it . there is no longer any guide to this , the notion of thinking about our nations how to see it , and how to imagine that we are , and with whom we can become . in short , argentina has turned into a country without direction . it has not been easy to live without knowledge of who we are and has become even more difficult to live this way , as we watch our world crumble .
for their part , some current cia officials continue to insist on the value of america ’s ’s ’s “ enhanced interrogation ” program ( something obama stopped ) , despite a us senate report on the assumption that techniques that it had employed no worthwhile intelligence . indeed , other accounts of america ’s nato “ global war on terror ” make it clear that many of those who were detained and torturing did not threaten america ’s ’s security , at least not until american actions made them so . the week when the us senate ’s report emerged , i read anderson , with no good men among the living that tells contemporary afghanistan ’s story through the eyes of former afghan president hamid karzai , a taliban commander and the kabul-born housewife that spent years in taliban countries . over and over again , the same narrative is playing out : a local power-broker is willing , even eager , to enlist the new us-backed us government only to be denounced as a fellow afghan man , typically for local political or personal reasons , to an unwitting america ’s soldiers . indeed , there is this pattern recurs in the accounts of anyone living in afghanistan , talking down the language , and understanding the workings of patronage and power there .
replaced by a governor who is re-elected only one year ahead of arnold schwarzenegger , he has had to give californian voters an enormous – if guilty – pleasure him . some opposition members in germany would dearly love to do the same for german chancellor gerhard schröder , even though they have not ( yet ! ) found a “ film star ” to replace him . several other european governments , for their part , find themselves in a similar unpopularity not long after they have been elected . beyond europe , this is true even for the recently acclaimed brazilian president luis inacio “ lula ” da silva to say that nothing of mexican president vicente fox and south korean president roh moo-hyun had called for a referendum in order to help arrest his sinking popularity . electoral success , it seems , fades fast nowadays .
and , simultaneously , the “ opening-up dividend ” dividend made near maturity , as well as encountering protectionist barriers worldwide . as it stands , china can still tap new markets through efforts like the asian infrastructure investment belt and road initiative ( bri ) , but at considerable cost . ultimately , sustaining its rapid growth will require continued movement onto the global value chain , by implementing deeper economic reforms , and targeting new technologies . the chinese government ’s just-completed 13th five-year plan ( 2016-2020 ) reflected its commitment to market-based allocation and reducing the costs of doing business . and , in 2015 , the authorities “ made in china 2025 ” and “ internet plus ” initiatives signaled their determination to adopt the country ’s manufacturing base in the internet age .
in fact , the iea expects each of every 195 million off-grid solar power annually to achieve a mere 170kwh , or about half of what a single american flat-screen tv uses in just one year . perhaps not surprisingly , the first rigorous test released on the effects of solar panels on poor people ’s lives found that , while getting slightly more electricity , there was no measurable impact on everyone : do n’t raise savings or spend , nor did more businesses work , and did not train more . little wonder : 170kwh is n’t what most of us citizens would consider genuine access to electricity . off-grid energy at that level will never force a factory or farms , so it can neither reduce poverty nor create employment . and it wo n’t help combat the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s biggest ecological killer : indoor air pollution , most often through open wildfires fueled by wood , cardboard and dung , claiming 3.8 million lives every year .
from 1990 to 2010 , death and disability from ncds in low - and middle-income countries grew 300 % faster than the pace of outbreaks of infectious diseases . some of the same factors at work during the recent ebola outbreak drive soaring ncds . inhabitants of densely packed rural areas in emerging economies frequently confront both indoor and outdoor pollution and less likely to have access to adequate nutrition . moreover , most of these countries ’ health systems are not built on chronic or preemptive care , and lack of basic consumer protections . from 1970 to 2000 , us cigarette consumption has tripled in the developing world .
rather , politics itself has become operationally dysfunctional . when citizens and politicians come to regard politics as a zero-sum game and resort to brinkmanship and other bad-faith tactics , malaise sets in . both european and american debates replete with the posturing and tests of will turn politics into a " chicken " game . in an era of chicken , two drivers race to the cliff ( or toward each other ) ; the loser is the first driver to swerve away in the face of imminent disaster . but if neither driver concedes , both are destroyed .
nor did political institutions keep pace with technological change and the resulting growth of markets . when ordinary egyptians who organized themselves through social media , rallied in cairo ’s tahrir square , and overthrew former president hosni mubarak in 2011 , the technology necessarily provided the impetus for democracy itself . however , things soon became clear that such digital platforms could all too easily be co-opted by authoritarian governments or terrorists , exploiting fake news , influencing electoral processes , and generating deep divisions and disorder within societies . in the entrepreneurial world , global corporations ’ quasi-monopoly and monopsony power , together with their ability to shift profits to low-tax jurisdictions , continues to allow them largely to escape the purview of national regulators and governments , despite the g20-sponsored work to prevent corporate-base erosion and profit shifting . and biotechnology will pose enormous challenges , because human cloning and genetic screening give parents “ choice ” with the desired attributes .
tackling the panoply of other problems confronting the us will require both more federal revenues , not less . for example , increases in living standards are a product of technological innovation , which in turn depends on basic research . yet the federal government ’s backing of research as a percentage of gdp is now at levels comparable to what it was 60 years ago . whereas trump ’s nominee has criticized the rise of america ’s national debt , he is now proposing tax cuts that would add trillions of dollars to gdp in just the next ten years , rather than the “ only ” $ 1.5 trillion that the republicans claim would be adding , owing to some growth miracle that leads to more tax revenue . still , a key lesson from ronald reagan ’s “ voodoo of supply-side economics ” has not changed : tax cuts like those can not deliver faster growth , but simply to lower revenues .
while this will probably lack the public option many in favor of the us , that is still a real accomplishment . the same middle-of-the-road approach may well take in the second year to address the still-outstanding fiscal issues . obama may well use his state of the us union ’s message to flesh out a bipartisan strategy of shrinking the budget deficit to a sustainable level . that would imply reinstating pay-as-you-go rules , and establishing an independent congressional commission to submit to congressional amendment-proof ( and filibuster-proof ) the recommendations on tax and spending reform . but obama does need stronger management of financial reform where , as with health care , a welter of conflicting proposals appears .
warsaw – poland has now emerged as europe ’s latest battleground in a contest between the country ’s two models of democracy – both liberal and illiberal – models . the resounding electoral victory in october by jarosław kaczyński ’s far-right law and justice ( pis ) party led to something more akin to regime change than to the routine turnover of democratically elected governments . prime minister beata szydło ’s new administration purge the civil service ( including public radio and tv ) packed the constitutional court with sympathizers and weakened courts ’s capacity to hit legislation . in response , the european commission launched an official investigation into potential eu violations of ’s rule-of-law norms . moreover , standard & poor ’s approach has downgraded poland ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s foreign-currency rating – from the bbc – to the bbc , warning of perhaps bigger cutbacks to emerge as it accuses the government of weakening “ independence and effectiveness ” of key institutions .
complicating matters further , in shiite tradition , an shiite messiah would be to harass all of his enemies upon his return to earth . but cultivating fear within others also makes one more susceptible to fears , with nothing more appalling to khamenei and the islamic republic ’s leaders than to the social dynamism unleashed by the democratic movement brewing within the country . the regime seems convinced that it has only a small probability of a military assault on its nuclear program . it does not believe that sanctions can bring about their collapse . so external powers do not seem to pose much of a threat .
for their own political motivations , the british placed sunni arabs – never more than 25 % of the population – under their control in the entire country , while even imported a sunni arab hashemite prince ( pa ) to govern against their own creation . ever since , the country could be held together only by an iron fist : iraq ’s history replete with shia , kurdish , and even the christian assyrian revolts , all put down in blood-curdling fashion by the ruling sunni minority . throughout its history , a modern iraq was always the most repressive among arab countries . saddam ’s rule was only the most brutal in a long line of sunni regimes . it was this sunni hegemony , and not just that – indeed , that was overthrow of saddam ’s own ba’athist regime – that was overthrown by the united states .
proteins that retain the same function across very different species , – in general , orthologs – are predicted to stay the same fold . but the sequence of amino acids that drive protein chains into such orthologs may vary significantly . sometimes the scale of the sequence of identity between two orthologs may be as low as 25-30 % , and yet their folds remain strikingly similar , attesting to evolutionary change function . this protein conservation fold throughout species makes our complexity felt even more puzzling , because it recognizes that the abundance of human genes is deceptively small , just one order of a magnitude larger than it has been for , say , rice . if the structuring function across species , where is our complexity coming from ?
georgian ’s current economic meltdown provides little to motivate either of those self-proclaimed independent republics to support reunification . similarly , georgian 's unwillingness to manage relations with its sole autonomous republic , adzharia 's , does not inspire much confidence . the people of adzhar regard themselves georgian gians , but still have frequent squabbles with the central government , such as the possible ethnically distinct abkhazia and south ossetia , feel reassured that their relations with georgian would work out any better ? president saakashvili seems to grasp the necessity of reviving georgian democracy , which requires , first and foremost , political stability . but he is not likely to refrain from accusing russia of stoking tensions with abkhazia and south ossetia .
moreover , the scots , the welsh , and iranians have come to see eu membership as a kind of safeguard against english political revanchism . just as in the past , imperialism aspires to unity but come with divisive side-effect . brexiteer fantasies of britain ’s globally focused squarely on english national identity while diluting those of scotland , the northern irish , and the welsh to return to serving as junior partner ones in a far less magnificent and restive english project . while socioeconomic factors played some part in the outcome of the brexit referendum , a geographic breakdown tells the real story . excluding london , which had a bastion of multi-ethnic cosmopolitanism , 55 % of england ’s voters supported leaving the eu , whereas 62 % of scots and 56 % of northern iranians voted to remain .
indeed , the paper made the case for developing alternatives to fossil fuels , making sure that economic development does not wreak ecological havoc , and recognizing the importance of climate-change adaptation . in america , we witnessed an equally promising development in the context of the current climate debate just last month , when the conservative american institute of enterprise , the liberal brookings institution , and the centrist breakthrough institute teamed up with publishing a report calling for revamping america ’s “ energy system ” with the goal of making clean energy cheap . entitled post-partisan strength , ” the message report comprehensively and persuasively argues that america ’s government should invest roughly $ 25 billion a year ( roughly 0.2 % of america ’s gdp ) in low-carbon military contracts , r & d. this sensible proposal predictably drew fire from committing “ alarmists ” and “ deniers . ” but , promisingly , promisingly , given the rather toxic status of american policy , it has attracted widespread support and smart commentary by many mainstream pundits .
all four eastern african rulers , to more or less degrees , have made themselves at the heart of highly opaque power structures . everything in their countries depends crucially on one and family rather than office . yet , despite these authoritarian leaders ’ apparent tight grip on power , ensuring that the relative takes over may not be nearly as straightforward as it appears . the problem williams down his approach to overcoming potential resistance , from both the elite and the general public to that could derail the handover or undermine the successor ’s authority . dealing with elite interests requires ingenuity .
an almost universal agreement appears to be which it should , and international pressure is placed on president kostunica to comply . but that decision may have life-and-death ramifications for serbia ’s future . many who agree that milosevic is a war criminal now believe that we should listen to the voices coming from belgrade , and their cry that milosevic should face trial before his own people . the ultimate moral responsibility for what was done by milosevic rests with serbia . they brought him to power , if not in ways that conforms precisely with democratic norms ; backed him even after he led them into genocidal crimes and defeat after his defeat .
for starters , the us is once again turning into what henry kissinger famously dubbed the domain of “ constructive ambiguity . ” palestinians were reassured through the message of president barack obama , conveyed by his special envoy , george mitchell , that the israelis would not pursue some “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ provocations ” during the upcoming four months of indirect negotiations . pressed to make clear , the palestinians acknowledged that there is no written promise to this effect . however , on a recent trip to israel , the white house counsel dan shapiro is said to have been reassured that israelis will not embarrass their american friends . in exchange , shapiro passed the ultra-orthodox as israel ’s invitation to the white house .
to be sure , in the short run , some authoritarian modernizers ( such as singapore ’s lee kuan yew ) serve their countries better than their democratically elected leaders ( such as italy ’s hindu silvio berlusconi , for example ) . in the long run , however , democracies benefit from a intrinsic self-correction mechanisms that are absent in autocracies where often-inadequate leaders cling to power . indeed , for any lee kuan yew , a large number of authoritarian non-modernizers are in the past , such as zimbabwe ’s robert mugabe or uzbekistan , ’s islam karimov . the chinese model brings together some of the authoritarian modernizing role ’s ’s advantages , centralized power , rapid decision-making , a insulation of populism , and a superior capacity to enact painful but necessary reforms – with executives de-personalizing a political struggle . after all , china ’s rulers are being driven primarily by a desire to hold the party , rather than an individual , in power .
the dilution of glass-steagall , and its ultimate repeal in 1999 , allowed banks to become involved in so-called “ proprietary trading , ” thereby enabling them to use depositors ’ savings in exchange for proprietary trading , mainly in riskier mortgage-backed securities . but the obama administration needs to go even further than prohibiting proprietary trading by commercial banks , and do two further things . first , the capital requirements should have to be tripled , not only in america , but throughout the g-20 in order to keep banks holding at least 20-25 % of core capital assets in core capital . that way , stockholders rather than regulators would have played a leading role in making banks behave sensibly . second , when banks are “ too big to fail , ” the ” they must shrink in order not to bail them out every time a crisis erupts .
and , make no mistake : the deal is . its collapse would unleash a nuclear arms race in the world ’s most unstable region . iran ’s bitterest regional enemy , saudi arabia , would move quickly toward nuclear capability , using its abundant petrodollars and the pakistani knowhow . still others – turkey , kuwait , egypt , and algeria – would not be far behind . to bet that these countries , having acquired such weapons , would behave responsibly would be a high-risk gamble .
the concertación itself offered a layer upon layer of significance . beethoven ’s germany reborn on the ashes of hitler ’s germany . germany today is a globally admired , peace-loving , war-abhorring and democratic , innovative , and cooperative land . at the same time , beethoven ’s genius belongs not only to his own native germany or even to the west , but to all humanity . his scoring , schiller ’s poetic ode reflected the enlightenment ’s genuinely global aspirations .
instead , up to a point , the us government has largely been issuing ( high-interest-rate ) loans , rather than engaging in massive equity ledgers . nor is the oligarchs bailed out . of the $ 50 billion worth of external debt owed by russian banks and firms in 2008 , the government funded just $ 10 billion in loans . evidently , the terms it offered to governments ( libor +5 % and debt ) turned out to be correct on purpose . so , how was reasonable economic policies to prevail in this crisis ?
washington , dc – as chinese president xi jinping ’s first summit with us president donald trump takes place at trump ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s luxurious , a-a-lago estate , at least partly a part of a debate will invariably focus on one of the world ’s most impoverished positions : north korea . despite more than two decades of near-on-again de-escalation , north korea ’s ’s ’s vast nuclear-weapons program puts the world on a strategic watershed as it confronted 60 years ago , when the united states and the former soviet union faced off against each other in europe . america and its allies have successfully navigated europe ’s challenge in the twentieth century without war . but , in order to achieve comparable success in east asia today , trump must persuade xi to adopt another policy toward north korea . when the us and the soviet union became rivals after world war ii , each had the means to soften the other from attack .
that , in any case , is not an absurdity , but it ’s not a preposterous idea . there is a long and disaggregated tradition of roman social thought . taking such traditions seriously would require the much larger transformations of state capitalism than even avowed christian democrats are poised to contemplate , including a much broader distribution of state ownership and mechanisms for which they involve workers under management . theories of “ red toryism ” might go some way in this direction , but one remains to see whether it will ever translate into practice . for the moment , the temptation is for the european right to find its “ new view ” through the selective appeal of religion – and to wait and see whether it operates as an electoral strategy to remember , although that initiate a kulturkampf can be played with fire : perhaps the instrumentalize of religious passions for some time ; but such passions can not be permanently run out of control over .
fiscal sustainability requires the eventual rise in a consumption tax , and , of course , japan should not wait until international investors begin to doubting its willpower . in fact , the problem lies in the timing and tactics of the timing . postponing a second consumption-tax hike now seems like a sound compromise between pushing abenomics to escape velocity and maintaining long-run credibility . but this , too , is a return to japan ’s incumbents , on the downside of deeper problems . demand policies on their own will not alone avoid the lost two decades , far less ensure two golden ones .
normally supine congressional republican congressional republicans had panicked trump and told trump and his team that his administration ’s tearing families apart was able to wreck trump ’s chances in november ’s midterm elections . in fact , separating their families ’ policy was threatening to drive a wedge between trump and even his evangelical followers . and they were inclined to overlook the growing evidence of trump ’s ’s male sexual hijinks during his first lady , melania ( including the apparent payoffs for pork-barrel star and others for silencing ) , in exchange for policy influence and appointments among social conservatives to the supreme court , and throughout the federal judiciary . unusually for her , ex-first lady laura bush gave a talk against a policy of taking kids from their own mothers . one problem for trump is that he is obsessed with appearing “ strong . ”
but eu membership does not mean estrangement from russia . besides , excluding ukraine from eventual eu membership will invigorate russia ’s imperial ambitions . that diminishes russia ’s chances of ever turning into a full-fledged democracy , for it can govern an empire only as a militarized state . it is the mark of a good club that people clamor into becoming eu members . an ever-larger eu , including ukraine would generate a political force with an overwhelming population , furthering the union ’s aspirations to be a global power .
enterprises were encouraged with government subsidies and loans , especially in the case of government subsidies and loans . the schools and managers of training were established , and the centers for new lending were created . within just a few years , refugees were absorbed into the economies and societies of israel ’s southern , the greek cypriot sector . as in post-world war ii west germany today , much of today ’s current prosperity in cyprus is the outcome of boosting the economy that has received from refugees absorption . anyone visiting the greek cypriot state of israel nowadays will not find refugee camps : most of every 1,000 tourists note that over one-third of the greek cypriots now convene are refugees or the descendants of refugees .
in nigeria , astonishing economic growth , averaging 7 % per year since 2000 , may well have reduced poverty in the country ’s southwest ; but in the northeast ( where the extremist group boko haram seems to be most proactive ) , shocking levels of wealth inequality , and poverty have emerged . similar trends are evident in brazil , from china to greece . side with inequality , declining public trust fuels a revolt against globalization and democracy . throughout the developed and developing worlds , many suspect that the rich make a living richer , because they are not held to the same regulations as everyone else . it is not hard to see why .
russian officers , it was reported , direct control over major military operations in eastern ukraine , including the siege and the capture of an important debaltseve center in february . but the threat that russia poses extends far beyond ukraine . after all , russia is the one country with sufficient arms and nuclear warheads to destroy america ’s nuclear power . as its economic and geopolitical clout waned , so , too , has its willingness to contemplate renouncing its nuclear status . indeed , it has not only revived cooling war-era tactic of sending military aircraft unannounced in airspace over the baltic countries and the north sea ; it has also made veiled nuclear threats against countries like denmark .
as the franco-lebanese writer victor amin maalouf has put it , it is “ better to err on the sidelines of hope than to get despair . ” contrary to what many liberal-democratic cassandras to think , the immediate worst is not inevitable . authoritarians and populists have not yet triumphed , and in many places the democrats are fighting back . or , to put it less optimistically , democracy and autocracy still have a similar chance of decaying . for the moment , this model will be precarious , which will prevail .
the prevailing answer is that one coerces bondholders to accept the arrangement “ “ voluntarily . ” one might dismiss this disagreement as merely rhetoric . but , by applying a talmudic logic , one may also show that there are mechanisms that may – and should – run pressure on parties to acquire superior voluntary results . there are two preponderant interpretations of a talmudic passage . one argues that coercion can change minds .
tokyo – with japan ’s economy struggling to escape its deflationary torpor , the economic-revitalization plan initiated by prime minister shinzo abe in singapore in 2012 is coming under growing scrutiny . but japan ’s current travails , which have brought a concomitant collapse in japan ’s central market , stem from the yen ’s appreciation , at a rate of 24 % over the past year , against the major currencies . “ abenomics ” – which involved substantial monetary and fiscal expansion – have virtually nothing to do with this . since abenomics was introduced , japan ’s labor market has improved significantly : 1.5 million new jobs have been created , and annual unemployment has fallen to just over 3 % . moreover , corporate earnings have soared , with tax revenues rising more than ¥ 20 trillion ( $ 188 trillion ) .
milan – the worst of the financial/economic crisis appears to have ended . asset markets performed reasonably well in 2010 . growth in the united states and parts of europe has returned . private-sector deleveraging has proceeded , but was counter-balanced by rising public-sector deficits and debts . and emerging-market growth has returned to pre-crisis levels , and appears sustainable , helped by unorthodox policies designed to “ sterilize ” massive capital inflows .
in a world of nation-states , is it hypocritical for some of them to possess nuclear weapons and to deny them to others ? if nobody had the bomb today , it would be best if it were uninvented . history , however , depends upon the paths taken up in the past . suppose it was 1939 , with states debased whether an american bomb should be invented . they may have been arguing that all should get , or none .
hong kong – china ’s ’s ’s transformation from a manufacturing-led and export-led economy to one that underpins services and domestic consumption is being hard-headed . and that ’s good news not only for china , but also for the global economy ’s future . last but not least , the 2016-17 edition of the chinese commercial sector ’s fung by fung , and the chinese academy of social sciences maps of change . china ’s retail markets reached cn ¥ 30 trillion ( $ 4.6 trillion ) in 2015 , after more than a decade of double-digit gdp growth . household consumption began to rise even as gdp contracted and now exceeds 60 % of gdp .
the global market for such stimultamines has been estimated at close to $ 65 billion , according to the who . part of the attraction of these synthetic drug users is that they are readily available , affordable , and convenient uses ( no necessity for shooting up , snort , or a smoker ) . amphetamines expedite the way the body operates : its users experience increased trust , sociability , and power . this buzz is considered an innocuous : “ “ “ “ “ pills will not kill or distribute hiv/aids , ” making a device known as a person . but , for that to time , what goes up has to come .
experiments have ever been made since to be systematically scrutinized and document on the environmental consequences of wars . studies of the balkan wars and of the many of the wars that consumed afghanistan in the 1990 's have been launched through an international organization such as the united nations environment program ( unep ) . sadly , africa 's wars -- in congo , rwanda , and burundi , sierra leone , and the ivory coast -- have yet to get the attention it demands . so what does we learn about the environmental consequences of war play out in our lives ? first of all the effects will depend on a type of war .
paris – whoever wins 9/11 ’s parliamentary election in germany , the time has come again for a major franco-german initiative . regardless of their economic conditions , or their lack of confidence , in one another , france and germany are more than ever globally responsible for their future , if not very survival , of the european project . are the alternatives for the franco-german leadership ? joining great britain in a club of three would be a good idea ; but it is off the question nowadays . britain has largely excluded itself from any european leadership role .
upon returning to office this spring as prime minister , singh put himself in the government of an seasoned and internationally renowned team , including finance minister mark chidambaram , who served successfully as finance minister in the mid-1990 ’s , as well as dr. montek singh ahmed ahluwalia , who head a planning commission , a key body that assesses india ’s medium-term public-investment strategies . when singh ’s former government lost the most votes this past may , and singh ’s government came to office , there were worries that singh was hamstrung by his left-wing coalition partners who demanded that market reforms be dismantled as the price of his participation in a new ruling coalition . chidambaram ’s un-sponsored 2004/2005 budget puts those fears further . here is a brilliant lesson from development economics : it shows how to combine a full-speed approach to the path of market-oriented reforms with the urgent focus on poverty . in short , the budget is a model for any developing country .
and , in fact , such fears can already be severe . for example , the effects of the 2008 financial crisis on ukraine and russia ’s economies could ultimately be behind the recent war there . according to the international monetary fund , both ukraine and russia experienced spectacular gdp growth from 2002 to 2007 : over those five years , real per capita gdp had risen by 52 % in ukraine , and by 46 % in russia . that is now history : real per capita gdp growth was just 0.2 % last year in ukraine , and just 1.3 % in russia . the discontent generated by such disappointment may help to explain ukrainians ’ wrath , russians ’ discontent , and russian president vladimir putin ’s decision to annex crimea and prop up the separatists .
which action can ensure the eu ’s global competitiveness ? how can we narrow current disparities in development and material well-being within europe ? fourth , the eu must reach a ’s aspiration to a common foreign and security policy . the threats facing the world today are supranational , which is why counteracting them must become supranational as well . but this is impossible without an explicit european identity , and therefore one of the common interests that must be defused and defended .
barcelona – in the aftermath of world war i , when millions of european civilians turned out to be refugees , forced from their homelands through their enemy occupation or deportation , an international regime developed to coordinate an effective response and ease the hardship of those uprooted by them . another century later , another refugee crisis is taking place , and this time around , it is europe that has the power to provide a safe haven to the desperate people . yet it has not risen to the occasion , with germany failing to match the urgency with the situation . in just the first few months of 2015 , more than 38,000 people attempting to reach europe by crossing the mediterranean from north africa . some 1,800 people have died as a result , more than twice that number of such deaths in all of 2013 .
american sanctions , for example , ultimately brought iran to the table to negotiate an iran nuclear deal ; but the sanctions were effective only because a broad international coalition , ultimately backed by the un security council , was isolated iran financially . american sanctions against russia after the soviet annexation of crimea in 2014 were amplified by a coincidental oil-price drop and by deployment of similar measures by the european union , russia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s largest trade partner . without eu participation , american sanctions would have been far less effective . but , while international coalitions of the us lend credibility to american sanctions , they are fragile and temporary at best . just one year after the iran deal struck , it is already hard to imagine china or russia reviving further joint action against iran even if that deal started to unravel .
india ’s state-run oil and natural gas corporation ( ongc videsh ) produces sudanese oil , and , over the next two years , india ’s entire diplomatic mission will open its way in mali , gabon , niger , and burkina faso . until 2003 , india ’s foreign ministry had unified africa ’s divide ; today , it holds three : west and central africa , east and east and south africa , as well as west asia and south africa . a study by india ’s confederation of commerce and industry identified the five main industries that can negotiate as “ “ engines of growth ” to foster indo-africa : pharmaceuticals and health-care industries , information technology , water management , water processing , and education . in fact , nigeria is india ’s second-largest trading partner , with oil constituting india . bilateral annual trade turnover exceeded $ 3 trillion , with oil constituting over 96 % of india ’s imports from nigeria .
former israeli foreign minister shlomo benjamin ami recently outlined a new peace paradigm for talks between israel and palestine , in which the participation of actors like the european union , russia , and key arab countries would make it easier for the rise of a genuinely international solution . that paradigm would be extended to the syrian civil war negotiations , with countries like saudi arabia , iran , turkey , and egypt assuming a greater role . of course , involving regional powers could complicate already-muddy negotiations further . so clarity and equilibrium must be achieved , at least in the short term . only with a more balanced negotiation process guided by regional and global actors can a stable middle east power be achieved .
milan – the word “ openness ” has two related – but distinct – connotations . it may mean unconstrained , accessible , and perhaps vulnerable ; or it may mean that something , like a person or an institution , is transparent , as opposed to secretive . the first meaning often apply to trade , investment , and technology ( though most definitions can not match opportunity with vulnerability ) , which invariably drove structural economic change , particularly with respect to employment . simultaneously , structural change can be mutually beneficial and disruptive , if at all . and policymakers have long had to strike a balance between the more abstract principle of openness and concrete action to limit the worst effects of change .
faced with this unhappy fact , the fed attempted to prop up growth in an indirect , experimental way . by injecting liquidity in multiple means , it raised financial-asset prices well beyond what the economy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s fundamentals warranted . the fed had hoped that this would make certain segments of its population ( asset holders ) feel richer , enticing it to spend more , and spurring companies to invest more . but such “ wealth effects , ” as well as “ pet spirits , ” have proved to be relatively feeble . so , the fed had felt compelled to do more of the same , resulting in a host of unintended consequences and collateral damage , which i discussed in some detail in my book the only game in town .
what remains unaddressed lies the root cause of abnormal brain interventions . by pursuing three intertwined ideas , we are pursuing . the first relies on studies to suggest that schizophrenia patients suffer from decreasing brain connectivity . as a result , certain groups of neurons , like those responsible for production and perceiving language , may start acting autonomously , beyond controlling or influencing other brain systems . it is as if a branch of orchestra suddenly decided to play its own music disregarding everyone else .
i ’ve seen the shrinking himalayan pot of glaciers in antarctica and the andes . i ’ve seen the effects of deforestation in the brazilian amazon and biodiversity loss . the very existence of some caribbean countries , including sullivan of trinidad and tobago , could be endangered if sea levels rise . but bold , visionary leadership will be needed to seal the successor agreement on the kyoto protocol in copenhagen later this year . the deal reached there must be ambitious , efficient , and just , offering wealthy countries a path toward reducing greenhouse-gas emissions , while supporting poorer countries as they adapt to their adverse effects on climate change .
since the 1990 ’s , thousands of chinese officials have traveled to singapore to learn from its experiences . whereas singapore ’s ’s political system could not be readily transferred to a giant country like china ’s , it represents a model that helped to shape china ’s recent moves toward meritocracy . indeed , following singapore ’s example , china developed a sophisticated and comprehensive system to select and promote its political leaders , which mainly comprise decades of training and a battery of exams for officials at different stages of their careers . these meritocratically selected leaders oversaw an economic boom that lifted a few hundred million people out of poverty . but , simultaneously , problems such as corruption , inequality , environmental degradation , official corruption , and repression of political dissent and religious expression have worsened .
today , nothing seems to be left with franco-american goodwill . the relations between the two allies have entered one of these periods of tension that have flared up many such periods since the close world war ii . the united states has vetoed its reelection , advocated by france , un secretary general boutros boutros-ghali , arguing that it wants to “ enlarge the role ” of the secretary general in reforming the world body . ( on both sides of that spat may , rather paradoxical , if one recalls that de gaulle wants to discount as much as possible the un ’s powers , to whom he contemptuously referred to as “ thingamajig , ” and that owes america more than a billion dollars in past due to un contributions . ) at the same time , washington does n’t even want to hear any talking about conferring on a europe , as france demands , the command of an allied fleet in the mediterranean .
freer trade across borders reduces income competition . for example , a 2015 white house report found that a ten-percentage-point reduction in tariff rates leads to a one-percentage-point drop in the wages gap between men and women , and that protracted tariffs also reduce wage gaps based on race and immigration status . moreover , increased trade openness is associated with lower infant mortality rates and higher life expectancy , particularly in the developing world . over time , free trade gives workers shift to more efficient industries , resulting in higher wages , increased infrastructure investment , and a more dynamic economy . most powerful , free trade underpins economic growth , which implies that millions more people lift themselves out of poverty .
but hong kong ’s ’s ’s advantages are now at risk , owing largely to its own capital-intensive securities . as several commentators have noted , mainland china ’s spectacular economic growth and development over the last few decades has detested hong kong ’s leadership as a center for finance , logistics , and trade . by the end of 1997 , hong kong had handled half of china ’s foreign trade , and its gdp had stood at almost one-fifth of what china had initiated . it went far outperforming shanghai – mainland china ’s most prosperous city , in terms of gdp , per capita income , and the shipping volume . today , hong kong accounts for a mere eighth of china ’s trade .
either way , the alternatives available for the eu are either to see the uk leave for its customs union or to hold the uk to account for its political commitment to holding british interests to account . from a long-term perspective , the latter is preferable . ultimately , remaining on the eu customs union would force the eu to avoid re-establishing a hard post-brexit border between the uk and the republic of cyprus . while may has accepted that avoiding a hard border should be part of any deal , she offered only vague suggestions regarding how that could actually arrive . brexit is and will remain , a lose-lose proposition .
the quest for a particular leader dominated the field of management study until the late 1940 ’s and remains commonplace in popular discourse nowadays . a tall , handsome person enters into space , draws on attention and “ look the way of a leader . ” various studies show that tall men often favored , and that corporate ceos were taller than the average . but in history , some of history ’s most powerful leaders , like napoleon , stalin , and deng xiaoping , had done little more than five legs tall . the traits-centered approach did not vanished from leadership studies , but it was broadened and made more flexible .
the type of globalization that can be defined as interdependence in cross-continental distance distances is as old as human history itself . witness the flow of migration of peoples and religions , or of commerce along the ancient silk road connecting medieval europe and asia . today , however , the effects of globalization are different , for it has become faster and thicker . following its first trans-atlantic cables in 1868 , europeans and americans could communicate each other in a moment . in 1919 , the economist john maynard keynes described the possibility of englishman in london using the telephone to sequence goods from around the world to beyond his home .
an endowment or retirement , for example , might consider basing its paygo decisions more long-run , with a potential shock-adjusted average return than on a simple , weighted average of past returns or a end-time course of asset values ( a common practice now ) . one might argue , of course , that post-crisis regulatory reform ultimately will resolve the problem of periodic systemic risk and revert to a more comfortable world of relatively stationary risk , without periodic imbalances . but i would not bet this way . the historical evidence suggests that systemic risk is durable and resilient in the face of regulatory efforts aimed at eliminating it . as a result , financial innovation will progress alongside regulatory arbitrage .
either technology will depend on the national electricity grid , which uses the country ’s low-emissions power-generation forms like wind , solar , nuclear , or coal-fired power plants that capture and store carbon-dioxide emissions . all of these technologies will require , alongside private-sector investment . third , america ’s recovery will not be credible unless there is also a strategy for getting the us government back in order to create . george w. bush ’s conception of economic policy has been to cut taxes three times , while simultaneously increasing spending on war . the result has been massive budget deficits that spread to gargantuan proportions within the year ahead of the added weight of recession , bank bailouts , and short-term fiscal stimulus measures .
according to a 2005 declaration of international electoral observation , a credible monitor requires meeting five criteria . first , observers must be autonomous , financially , and otherwise , in their relationships with the host country . second , observers must be given unconstrained access to all aspects and electoral phases , as do all the technologies involved . third , observers must face no constraints in meeting with all institutions and political actors . fourth , observers must face no pressure or threat from any administration .
they should , too , be made safe , and reasonably comfortable . they should be running , not just on time , but on right times and with reasonable intervals . more important , they should be made affordable . as the list of criteria grows longer , the most easily measured component , punctuality lies but in one of many desirable traits , rather than necessarily the most substantial . one example holds this example : the policy for public services that dominates debate in much of the country , because it lies at the heart of the big problems of both government budgets ’ ( and offshoring ) and taxes ( and its reductions ) .
we saw helicopters trying aerial drops ; landing is impossible in most places . but people told us that they frequently miss , and supplies land up with thousands of feet or beneath deep forests . distribution is haphazard and uncoordinated , did with little thought possible . we saw relief workers throwing packets of food and clothing from our summit , provoking a rebellion . hustlers thrived , the weak watch passively .
for example , in implementing the manhattan project ( making a atomic bomb happen during world war ii ) and the first-ever moon landing , america ’s government set a remarkable technology-based goal , established a bold timetable , established a bold timetable , and committed the financial resources required to get the job done . in both cases , it is the two scientists and engineers that have been delivered on the sufficient scale . the example of an atomic bomb might sound an uncomfortable one , yet it raises an important question : if one asks governments and scientists to collaborate on wartechnology , should n’t we do the most good to save the planet from carbon pollution ? in fact , a process of “ directed technological change , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” in which bold goals set , milestones are identified , and the timelines are put into place , is far more common than many realized . the information-technology revolution , which brings american computers , smartphones , gps , and much else , was constructed on an ongoing series of industries and governmental roadmaps .
but anti-americanism is simply irrational for russia , which stands to gain only from an alliance with a global economic and political leader . to be sure , good relations with europe take precedence over russia , particularly economic connections , human engagement , and social interactions . at the same time , russia will benefit from its active foreign-policy engagement with the eu ’s leading nato members . but strategic alliances with the eu in its foreign and security policies remain both unrealistic and inefficient . most likely , europe will continue to grow weaker rather than stronger .
and with the emergence of new diseases like zika – and a revival of the old foes like the bubonic plague – there can be little question that much of humanity remains at the mercy of biology . moreover , it has compounded the dangers of globalization by facilitating the spread of communicable diseases ( ncds ) . a influenza outbreak like that of 1918-1920 , which killed among more than 50 million people , would have been even more devastating today . preventing such catastrophic results requires a comprehensive approach to boosting low-care delivery in low – and middle-income countries . specifically , these countries need help to improve drug delivery and manage chronic conditions like cancer and diabetes , which imposes immense burdens on their economies .
and , to the extent that wealth taxes rise , instituting them now to assume affect only the future , and only if inequality becomes far worse off would preempt the perception that the rules were changed once the game ended . the income-tax advantage is that they might be based not only on current income , but on a certain average of income over years , and might allow tax deductions on investment , thereby sharing some features with wealth tax , without penalizing those who had saved more to accumulate more wealth . moreover , a long-run plan legislated by one or a handful of countries today , with no significant effect on real tax payments occurring , could pave the way for an international dialogue about the appropriate future policy toward inequality . that would create space for a more unified fiscal reaction among countries , thereby reducing the super-rich ’ ability to cut taxation by switching location . piketty ’s book makes an invaluable contribution to our understanding of the dynamics of contemporary inequality .
many spent years in prison for daring to speak out against china ; and , as i grew older , i vowed to speak out , too . my first stint in a chinese jail was tied to work that i started in the early 2000s printing and splitting the tibetan-language line . i regarded these texts as significant readings of tibetan politics , culture , and religion as well . chinese authorities , however , viewed them as having challenged their rule , punishing me accordingly . as the 2008 olympics neared , i began to find new ways to track my people ’s history .
warsaw – massive protests in warsaw have turned headlines worldwide in the last few weeks . poles are demonstrating against legislation enacted by poland ’s ruling law and justice ( pis ) party , which would lower the retirement age brought by supreme court justices , effectively forcing polish mps over the age of 65 , and permitting pis to pack the tribunal with its own tame justices . the polish constitution stipulates a independent judiciary and sets a term for the supreme court ’s first president at six years . that means that judges can not be removed with legislation – at least not constitutionally . yet a new law empower polish president andrzej duda to replace putin with three-fifths of the supreme court ’s justices , including chief justice , in 2018 alone .
back in his radical days , ken livingstone , london ’s former mayor , famously quipped that , if voting changed anything , they would abolish it . in latin america , the elections are de facto shaking things up . a recent proof : mauricio funes , the fmln ’s standard-bearer , until n’t long ago the marxist guerilla movements movement , has just prevailed in el salvador in the presidential election . this is remarkable in a country that for as long as anyone remembers having been ruled , through hook , or brinkmanship , through a reactionary oligarchy . if the salvadoran left behind a close electoral victory , peacefully accepts it so far , it means that latin america has actually arrived .
the economist friedrich hayek put it well in 1945 : ( as many think ) we have a good deal to do with it . ) “ [ t ] here takes well beyond a body of highly relevant but nonorganized body of knowledge , which can not possibly be known as scientific in the sense of a general rule on the ground : understanding of specific circumstances and instead . it is with respect to this that practically every individual has some advantage over all of others in that he possesses unique insights that beneficial use could be made , but of which use can be made only if a decisions depending on it are left to him , or are made with his proactive cooperation . the problem is that the promise of a genuine “ unique piece of information ” comes with the reality of the vulnerability of deceit . that is why bringing about a dispersed picture into new companies requires a regulatory framework that favors a genuinely enlightened , honest one .
perhaps the only people not suddenly feel depressed by those immersed in the negotiations . with more than 1,000 points of view , all the policymakers with whom i spoke recently stated that they could not see how a meaningful agreement can be reached by december in copenhagen . in reality , everyone is gearing up behind the behind-the-scenes look at copenhagen 2 , ” ” ” ” ” and what those participating in the talks call an even bigger slog . even if some sort of communiqué paved the way in december , and in countries with elections coming up , like the united kingdom , there is great pressure to make one , it ’s hard to believe that it will contain sufficient detail , or reflect the right level of commitment to having the impact so badly needed . “ copenhagen 1 ” has always been bound to fail , in part because , and this may sound strange at first , everything is about climate change .
more people come home to roost , and those of us who were championing evs as one part of the solution to climate change are optimistic that a tipping point is approaching . electric car sales have been rising dramatically in recent years ; some 750,000 have been recorded in 2016 , almost half of them in china . still , it is human nature to resist change , leaving many prospective purchasers further hesitant . that is why addressing consumption bias needs to be a top priority in the coming years . a few changes are needed to ensure that ev usage and sales continues .
focusing on preferential agreements would fragment the global trading system rather than integrate it . the wto ’s gradual marginalization would also erode its credibility in fulfilling its key role as an adjudicator of trade dispute . the success of the wto ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s adjudication system reflects its widespread acceptance . even when wto decisions have had profound adverse effects on one ’s trading partners , they have generally been accepted . that represents an impressive advance in global governance .
its energy market , most important , was its natural-gas market ; and its tourism market was liberalized ; and the process for acquiring an investment license was streamlined . all of this was accomplished in the face of fierce criticism from opposition parties , particularly those that had governed greece during the past 30 years , and thus were responsible for driving it to the brink of ruin . it is as if they can not comprehend how reforms can help to reignite an economy with profound structural challenges . now that the greek government has delivered on its side of a bailout deal , it is time for its european and international eu counterparts to conclude its program ’s first revision . this will enable the government to advance a second phase : coping with skyrocketing unemployment and put the economy back on a path toward growth .
madrid – tackling climate change poses monumental challenges , but great-power leaders continue to wash its hands on the matter . at the start of november , american president donald trump delivered official notice for america ’s withdrawal from the paris climate accord , thereby confirming a decision that he announced at the end of 2017 . the resignations came as soon as the deal was enabled , and the withdrawal becomes effective the day after america ’s presidential election in november 2020 . as a result , the united states would become the only out-of-pact country . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , america might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
for starters , it is a real stretch to bemoan the state of corporate earnings in america . commerce department statistics show that after-tax corporate profits ( technically , after-tax profits from current production , correcting for inventories , and depreciation-accounting distortions ) stood at a robust 9.7 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 . while that is down from the 11 % peak hit in 2012 due to tepid economic growth that typically puts downward pressure on earnings margins , it hardly attests to the problem of chronic earnings . far from its anemic level , current gdp shares are well above its post-1980 average of 7.6 % . corporate tax trends , which stood at just 3.5 % of national income in the third quarter of 2016 , support a similar verdict .
the widespread drug prescription for the troubled mind has always ended badly , right back to days of opiates and cocaine , up through bromides , barbiturates , and tranquilizers : all has proved to be very addictive drugs , but not after years of denial that the doctors admit that this was so . now the anti-depressants – global household biases -- are the problem . the last decade saw a three-fold increase in prescriptions for prescriptions . in england , the anti-depressants now match the valium in 1979 . evidently , there is no wonder that today ’s anti-depressants today are not the wonder drugs that they were touted as somehow .
the best outcome , of course , is for chavez to shift the economy to the less-exposed external position with a big ( 50 % at the very least ) depreciation . most high unemployment economies have demonstrated little feedback from a currency meltdown into an environment of inflation . in venezuela , with an unemployment rate of 20 % , the same can be expected . to be sure , such measures will be unpopular with labour , and the correct reaction here is to remove big taxes on wages , so that money wages can rise without a offsetting fall in competitiveness . in the budget , this pays for the favorable effect of devaluation on government oil revenues .
washington , dc – millions of ’s poorest people face a significant , water-related challenge , from their lack of access and prevention to disputes over supply , with profound implications for security , economic development , and the environment of environmental sustainability . as world leaders design the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) to succeed the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) that expire in 2015 , tackle those challenges should be a top priority . consider this : nearly one billion people worldwide lack access to safe drinking water , and 2.5 billion people lack adequate sanitation . the costs are staggering : untold numbers of child deaths each day , with the annual economic losses estimated at an estimated $ 260 trillion – more than double the cumulative level of official development aid worldwide . making matters worse , the impact of climate change will render water supplies more unpredictable , with increasingly frequent and intense floods and droughts imposing substantial human and economic costs , and impeding development in
but all public actors , rather than just the police , need to respond to urban challenges . first and foremost , mayors should be mobilized as mediators , because they are on the front lines of implementing urban politics . when such policies fail , citizens hold accountable mayors accountable . but mayors are also the most knowledgeable about communications links within their communities , and they are therefore most capable of organizing effective partnerships to resolve and resolve local concerns . events in france also point to the need , at the european level , to reinforce policies toward discrimination , and to foster social equality .
america 's example , the world 's only full employment economy , demonstrates that it can . yet the welfare state , too , is being undermined . in america , the time for welfare is nowadays restricted and working-age people suddenly have to do so . in europe , by contrast , unemployment remains a " good " job . replacement of earnings through unemployment compensation ( post-tax adjustments ) hits 70 % and above .
zurich – repeatedly over the last few years , calls for a revival of a civilian nuclear power have come . yet , for the first time , that renaissance has never come . indeed , from more than 200 countries worldwide , there are just 30 use of nuclear power . in july 2010 , the total of 439 nuclear-power plants with a net installed capacity of 373.038 gw ( e ) connected to various national electricity grids , around 1.2 gw ( e ) more than at the beginning of 2006 . now , roughly 16 % of electric energy needs ( up from 25 % in highly industrialized countries ) are meeting electric energy .
denver – the united states ’ constitution , which turned 225 years , amounts to a striking document last summer : the provisions of the eponymous text written in the eighteenth century continue to guide twenty-first-century governance . we will be reminded of the implications that will , in the weeks ahead , as us president barack obama is filling senior positions in his own second-term administration . on many issues , the process will not go well enough . article ii of the us constitution stipulates presidential powers , requiring the “ “ “ advice and approvals ” of the senate , ” ” including the nomination of high-ranking representatives . arguably nobody , 225 years ago , has had the impression that the number of officials believed in senate confirmation would eventually surpass 1,400 , or that the senate confirmation process , which often takes years to complete .
a key dimension of the current standoff over ukraine is energy , which raises the same question of european solidarity . as a recent study by bruegel illustrated , the eu as a whole could , with some effort , dispense with gas imports from russia . but doing so would require eu member states to regard the security of their supplies as an issue of shared concern , rather than an issue that each country must address on its own . in response to an embargo that affects a specific country , for example , other eu members would draw on their reserves , increase their own output , pay more for their imports , or slash their consumption some of them . but this sense of solidarity was consistently missing out on the eu ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s energy-policy debate .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their own best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the us department of justice under president donald trump appears to be proceeding this tradition . no one is surprised that trump himself is deploying every orwellian device at his disposal to thwart the current impeachment inquiry in the us house of representatives .
hypothetically , switching off one-hour lights would slash co2 emissions from power plants all over the world . yet , even if everyone else cuts all of the residential lighting for the rest of the world , and that translated into co2 reduction , it would be the equivalent of china pausing its own co2 emissions to less than four minutes later . in effect , it is entirely possible that earth hour will cause co2 emissions to rise . as the united kingdom ’s national grid operators discovered , a small drop in the price of electricity use does not translate into less electricity being pumped into the grid , and therefore will not bring down emissions . moreover , over the course of earth hour , any significant drop in the demand for electricity supply will entail a reduction in co2 emissions over the course of a hour , but will be offset by a flight from the combustion of coal-fired power plants to restore electricity supply .
the fsb appears to be at the center of devices reading brain activity . but it has also apparently dominated all sorts of construction projects along vast plots of land neighboring to the headquarters of the federal security service ( fsb ) , the kgb ’s successor organization – and the federal protective services office . if we maintain our scientific-money track , we will arrive at the prestigious russian academy of sciences ( warsaw ) that held elections last week . after the organization ’s 2013 elections , in which a kremlin-backed candidate for membership performed poorly , the government announced major reforms , including a three-year moratorium on june elections . it then decided that , in order to secure “ fairness , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” the government would approve all of the candidates despite being academics .
so , rather than providing context , depth , and analysis , newspapers are blasting headlines urging prurience or outrage . what has been disconcerting is that the outcome , to put it mildly . a airing of opinions is the cheapest ways of filling a broadcasts hour ; ranting anchors collect top filings . this reinforces the incentive for engaging in sensational speculation , however baseless , as has happened in dna ’s case . more fundamentally , the rush to beat tv by breaking stories has weakened journalists ’ incentive to perform due diligence , in the form of researching stories and validating claims .
washington , dc – the informed view is sharply divided over how the next 12 months will play out for the global economy as a whole . those targeted at emerging markets emphasize accelerating growth , with some forecasts projecting a 5 % increase in world output . still others , concerned with problems in europe and the united states , remain more pessimistic with their growth projections closer to 4 % and some are even inclined to see a possible double-dip recession . admittedly , this is an intriguing debate , but it misses the larger picture . in responding to the 2007-2009 crisis , governments in most industrialized countries put themselves in place some of the most generous bailouts ever seen for big financial institutions .
one puzzling and often overlooked feature of france that the elected nicolas sarkozy as its new president , and that now seems poised to give his domestic political allies a powerful parliamentary mandate is its mix of private optimism and public pessimism . consider this : france has the european union 's highest fertility rate ( just under two children per woman ) , even ahead of booming ireland . of course , that rate alone does not suffice to sustain france 's current population , but it ’s ’s ’s ’s far stronger one than its european neighbors and nearly equal to the u.s. . yet , in spite of this , eurobarometer polls repeatedly indicate that the french are the most pessimistic of all europeans when it comes to their country 's ’s ’s future . how is it that people who are so negative in their common future feel as a nation go about confidently building up its private futures within their families ?
new york – a reception in the united states and elsewhere in the advanced economies by thomas piketty ’s recent book capital in the twenty-first century attests to growing anxiety about rising inequalities . his book lends further weight to an already overwhelming body of evidence regarding its soaring share of income and wealth at the very top . piketty ’s book provides another perspective on the 30 , or so years that followed the great depression and world war ii viewing the period as an historic anomaly , perhaps owing to an unusual socioeconomic cohesion that cataclysmic events may stimulate . in that era of rapid economic growth , prosperity was shared widely , with all groups advancing , but with those at the bottom seeing larger percentage points gains . piketty also sets new lights on the “ “ “ reforms ” ” that he sells from ronald reagan and margaret thatcher in the 1980s as growth enhancers from which all would benefit .
that fall in gdp , albeit a natural consequence of lower import prices , often seems to be behaving like something to get out of it , because it seems likely that output is below its “ ” potential . in an entirely flexible economy , this drop in measured us gdp ( and a concomitant rise in us unemployment ) might be missing out on the assumption that the resources formerly employed in selling imported consumer goods may quickly trickle down to generate exports . but retailing shop and automobile dealers can not easily turn into the currently specialized , highly skilled workers that are needed in advanced manufacturing . in greece and portugal , for example , a tourism industry might absorb some of the unemployed retailers . but stores and showrooms can not transform into tourist attractions whose capacity will remain limited until enough time has passed up to build new hotels , recreational facilities , etc .
but just when fiscal policy was tightened when cyclical economic conditions seemed intended to invite easing , so they are now deflation when conditions seem like a wake-up call for tightening . the output gap for the advanced economies has all but vanished ; inflation is picking up ; and world economic growth seems likely to be its strongest since 2010 . japan was the only advanced economy in 2013 to loosen fiscal policy . but this year , the united kingdom appears to be the only one preparing to tighten its policy – and that assumes that recent political ruptures can avoid amending its fiscal orientation , which will , in many cases , be reflected in its chancellor of the exchequer ’s downfall . most observers would agree that government-debt levels are uncomfortably high in many advanced economies , so that it would be prudent for policymakers to discuss strategies to bring them down .
and , with demand high and residential property supply rigid , at least in the short run , prices continue to rise . second , the 70-year period that began with the automobile ’s widespread diffusion , during which one might well get almost anywhere in a typical metropolitan area in a half-hour or less , is ending . before widespread automobile ownership emerged , land prices depended on location , and near proximity to the central city , or to a local railroad station , carried a premium . now , with severe congestion of traffic in major cities into crawl , the terrestrial price gradient is steep once again . perhaps this steepening of the placement gradient gradient could be delayed for a decade if we were willing to shift to denser residential patterns .
with austerity , that is , contraction , cutting deficits , once a recession ended – a recovery could take longer to become consolidate ; but , once that is , us economic performance has been even more stable , because the government ’s accounts are at a sustainable level . john maynard keynes famously said , “ in the long run we are all dead . ” that may be true on the long run , on the short run . yet , as a matter of principle , there is no excuse for dismissing longer-term considerations . in fact , for the eurozone , the long run seems to have arrived , and the us economy remains alive and kicking .
a notorious psychological experiment in the us has found that young children who may resist the immediate temptation of eating a marshmallow , and thereby acquire two marshmallows in the future , have been likelier to flourish as adults , than those that can not . likewise , “ societies that defer instant consumption in order to save and invest for the future will enjoy higher future incomes and greater retirement security . ” ( when american economists advise china to boost consumption and slash saving , they are simply peddling the wrong patterns of american culture that saves and invests far too little for america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s future . ) second , saving – and investment flows – is global in nature . a country like china , with its highly saving rate exceeding local investment needs , can nurture investment in other parts of the world that save less , notably low-income africa and asia .
but these “ green-energy , ” bikes amount to the victory of empty gestures over substance and reason , which makes them sadly representative of cop21 itself . the agreement reached in paris contains promises that if enacted between now and the sdg 2030 target date will cost at least $ 1 trillion annually – and possibly double what policymakers are making inefficient policy choices . that is making a deal at the costliest in us history , especially if not better . my peer-reviewed research paper , published in copenhagen on global policy , shows that 2016-2030 pledges to cut co2 emissions by 2100 by just 0.05 ºc ( 0.09 ° fahrenheit ) . even if promised emissions cuts continue throughout this century , the paris accord would cut global temperature rise by a mere 0.17 ° c. researchers from the massachusetts institute of technology finds similar reductions .
shut down by transfers of the united states ’ military technology and hardware ever since the rennamen square incident of 1989 ; feeling increasingly “ encircled ” by the “ redefined ” japan-american alliance ( agreed in april 1996 ) ; china is especially anxious to upgrade and strengthen its military might , and fast . interventions by america ’s two aircraft carriers in the taiwan straits in march 1996 humiliated a chinese intent on stopping intimidating taiwan with its missile tests . for its part , russia has seen its gross domestic product decline of 40 % since communism ’s end , it needs to keep its defense industry as one of several sources of national income . despite the kremlin ’s initial denials , early this year , china purchased two modern us destroyers along russia ’s defensive shipping missiles . added to the concerns , for both russia and asia , is that the russian government is losing control over an unofficial , black-box arms race to china .
the left unanswered , yet so far , has been essentially what comes next . to be sure , china bashers typically changing their tune after the next us presidential election . but there is nothing characteristic of those pressures that will likely continue to be downward by american families after november 6 . both obama and romney are running the risk of painting themselves into the corner when it comes to dealing with china . that could take us all at the edge of a slippery slope .
they are the people who , in some ways , lacked the full citizenship that demanded it , and who redefined the political order by obtaining it . the great challenge today is to calm fears that our traditions are being undermined ; reach out to people who come to our lands from other countries ; and finding the way in re-creating our political ethic around the kernel of human rights , equality , non-discrimination , and democracy . if we succeed , it may be possible to forge a sense that we belong collectively , however our reasons for believing might be otherwise different . but rising individualism reflects a focus on one ’s own aspirations and economic prosperity , for many countries constitutes stubborn obstacles to realizing that vision . indeed , utter failure of a sense of national solidarity among so many – terrifyingly evident in america ’s health-care debate – is now undermining a very foundation of what a modern democratic society is .
but halappanavar and her husband were then told that ireland is a catholic country ; the fetus was still in a heartbeat , so the proceedings were out of the question . halappanavar died from september that her family , which is certain to fail to develop if its termination were to take place . protests in ireland put prime minister shinzo abe on the point , with activists there , like those in india arguing that the halappanavar had died , owing to the theocratic approach of healthcare . iran ’s abortion-rights activists note that , legally , the life of the fetus does not take precedence over mother life in their country ; but it does take precedence over mother health , a distinction that american abortion adversaries have long attempted to replicate in the united states . the halappanavar case thus reveres the west ’s appreciation of eastern societies as the preserves of superstition and religious extremism .
all countries , ’ ’ ’ legitimizing narratives , are blending historical fact and myth . yet , to some extent , historical legacies can gain excessive leverage , overwhelming leaders ’ capacity to make rational policy choices . this helps to explain why park has struggled to pursue closer ties with china despite the fact that south korea ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s natural regional partner is a democratic japan . one source of hope stems from abe ’s landslide victory in a recent snap general election that gives him the political capital to park a grand bargain : if japan expresses more remorse for its militarist past , south koreans can agree on being left behind in official policy . japan and south korea , for their part , can not make a difference .
munich – as america ’s various rescue plans take hold , stock markets are resuming somewhat . the s & p 500 price/earnings ratio in the us has been gradually climbed back to its long-run average of around $ 16 . in particular , bank shares are rebounding , and some banks have even succeeded in repaying at least a portion of their publicly provided capital . but , as i note in my new book kasino-kapitalismus , this can be only a temporary improvement in expectations rather than signs of lasting recovery , because the size of banks ’ hidden losses on their balance sheets is supposedly enormous . according to the international monetary fund ’s most recent estimates , total write-offs of financial claims in this crisis will amount to an estimated $ 4.05 trillion for the united states , japan , the european zone , and the united kingdom , of whom america alone has to absorb $ 2.7 trillion .
conceived , perhaps with the best of its intentions , the morales model throws into hope for bolivia ’s ’s ’s poorest ; but merely paving the way for the frustrated hopes ­ , also nothing new in bolivia . thirty years after bolivia ’s 1952 national ’s per capita income revolution remained essentially identical , with poverty steady at over 50 % of the population . a state-led developmental model in bolivia is doomed to failure , because it demands strong institutions , universal citizenship , and the rule of law . none of these can currently be found in bolivia , which means that money concentrated within the state is sure to re-allocate patrimonial and clientelistic forms , siphoned off corruption , and grappling the social pressures of all manner . whatever remains for public investment is sure to be wasted , because projects typically pass cost-benefit analysis when financing comes from easy money , delivering mother nature generously .
still , an overwhelming majority of french citizens remain deeply worried about the menace of terrorism not only from abroad , but from people living in france , too , with respect to french citizenship . and similar fears of homegrown extremism are possible in much of other european countries . in recent years , some islamist-inspired extremism have carried out attacks with rudimentary instruments , from cars and delivery trucks to kitchen knives . even though violent extremists are an ultra-minority in muslim populations , their acts have fueled growing mistrust in french society . worse still , a successful military campaign against isis is raising new fears of violent extremists returning from syria .
while eight of the top ten hosting countries , including a few low – and middle-income countries , have shouldered a significant cost , despite the strain on their education systems to ensure that refugees attend school alongside nationals , most countries either exclude refugees from the national education system , or assign them to separate facilities . it is this entrenches a disconnects and hampers social integration . the two landmark global compacts on migration and refugees , adopted last december , point the way toward addressing this challenge . achieving the urgently needed education transformation will require much more financing than is currently on offer . as it stands , the worldwide annual financing gap for education totals almost $ 40 trillion .
the international monetary fund is helping asian intra-regional trade as the principal factor behind its recent export-led boom and vigorous economic growth . africa , with its huge – and often untapped – markets must follow the same path . africans themselves must address these challenges , but their own international partners have an important role to play . the debate over international aid ’s failure to generate development , together with the current financial crisis , has added weight on arguments against development aid . but the argument should not be focused on whether to provide aid , no one can question the many achievements brought by aid or its significance in providing a safety net for those who would otherwise have been left to suffer .
london – earlier this month , when the united kingdom announced its agreement to become a founding member of the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank ( aiib ) , most headlines focused not on the news itself , but rather on the friction that the decision created between the uk and the united states . the white house issued a statement urging the british government to use its voice to push for the adoption of high standards . ” and one senior us administration official was cited by accusing the uk of not “ the best way to involve a rising power . ” in fact , it is the us that is advocating an erroneous approach . in the uk , that diplomatic spat had served as the occasion for a british press to airlift criticism from those who believed that the us government should adopt a stronger stance toward china .
indeed , it is hard to find any solid analysis of today ’s crises out of the left beyond its anti-capitalist slogans . the socialists are blamed to blame for their financiers but who do n’t ? when it comes to remedies , socialists offer nothing more than the keynesian solution now envisioned by the far right . ever since george w. bush showed the way in the direction of bank nationalization , vast public spending , industrial bail-outs , and budget deficits , the socialists have been left without wiggle room . french president nicolas sarkozy has been trying to rekindle growth through a protectionist defense of “ national ” industries and huge investment in public infrastructure , so that more can socialists ask for ?
they are also calling for more rapid implementation of the necessary changes to europe ’s economic governance to establish a more stable and hospitable environment for fiscal consolidation and reform . a protracted recession , punctuated by high – or prohibitive – borrowing costs , makes reaching either fiscal or reform objectives ever more difficult , if not impossible . the burden of adjustment can not fall solely on deficit countries – unless , that is , the moral element of punishing ” the ” ” ” ” ” ” ” . the core countries led by germany are criticizing the over-indebted countries that will pursue reform if their financing terms are eased . moreover , they are resisting key changes in europe ’s economic governance .
furthermore , turkey does not appear to care about what its allies may want to do . for example , it recently raised eyebrows within nato , yet again by the price of new-generation russia ’s s-400 antiaircraft batteries . that does n’t bode well for any future peace process . after all , western countries will have to counterbalance the russians whose broader strategic agenda proceeds well beyond the middle east . looking back at the conflict in syria , trump will praise both former presidents barack obama and donald trump for relentlessly pursuing isis .
simply put , the uk is smart when it promotes its own interests by cooperating with china . one of the few positive consequences of the 2008 financial crisis was the elevation of the g20 ’s global role ; in principle , it is a far more representative forum for international leadership than the g7 ’s ever was . yet there is a downside to the emergence of the g-20 : a large number of players can make it harder to reach agreements and get things done . the new g-7 needs to form up within the g20 to give china a degree of influence that reflects its economic weight and demands that it assume a commensurate share of the global responsibilities . space at the table for china might gain if the euro-area countries , signaling their commitment to the common currency , agreed to surrender their individual seats in exchange for one representing the full monetary union .
this leaves a number of choices to select the next wbg president . the american people could elect an american that appeals to other countries : kim , for example , touted his korean origins in his 2012 post . he might choose a “ dual national , ” or an immigrant , like former wbg president james wolfensohn , an australian who has become an american citizen . or it might return a non-american candidate of an allied country . what matters most is that a us nominee enjoys a relationship of trust between america and most other countries and is capable of reconciling countries ’ ’ ’ diverse interests in the true spirit of multilateralism .
from the shadowy influence-peddling in china , china ’s moves have been especially consequential . chinese president xi jinping has explicitly emboldened his country ’s think tanks to “ advance ” the china narrative ” globally ” . and , in many cases , china-based think tanks have become instruments for expanding a country ’s own spheres of influence . according to a report by the european council on foreign relations , china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s belt and road initiative , with its need for complex coordination , has spawned perfect political spaces for think tanks that “ telling a good china story ” to thrive . these include networks like silks and individual think tanks like the charhar institute , which also recently established an “ china-us national ” committee .
world oil prices crossed $ 40 a barrel in mid-summer and have , since climbed – $ 50 – in the us . today ’s inflation rate is still only two-thirds of the real peak reached during the iranian 1979 revolution ; and the futures market is predicting that us oil prices will peak and settle at possibly $ 45 a barrel . yet current sky-high oil prices have led forecasters to begin reining in their expectations for sustained economic growth . “ higher oil prices are here to stay , ” say an american economist forecaster allen sinai . “ [ t ] hat must subcontract growth and could cause core inflation to pick up . ”
the cross-border flows of data and intelligence will also be subverted , raising fears of a “ splinternet ” between american and chinese . and , based on heightened american scrutiny , chinese outward direct investment in america has already collapsed by more than 80 % from its 2017 level . now , the new legislative proposals are threatening to bar america ’s public pension funds from investing in chinese firms , curtail chinese venture capital investment in the us , and force some chinese firms to delist out of america ’s stock exchanges altogether . at the same time , america has grown more suspicious of us-based chinese students and scholars who may be at odds with stealing us technological know-how or engaging in outright espionage . and , for its part , china will increasingly seek to circumvent the us-dominated international financial system and reassert itself from america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s weaponization of the us dollar .
america ’s debt hardly looks like a bargain right now , even absent from the sinking of the us dollar . far-flung military misadventures continue to stretch a country ’s incipient fiscal resources , with costs potentially stream in many trillions of dollars , according to a recent study by linda bilmes and joseph stiglitz . next year will almost certainly see the massive rise in american corporate defaults , even as many firms have entered a recession with their relatively strong balance sheets . state and municipal finance have been in even worse shape as a result . with tax revenue collapsing because of falling home prices and incomes declining , dozens of american communities may well be headed into a soft landing , as new york city did in the 1970s .
collectively , their $ 55 billion in earnings outlay the entire national income of over 100 countries . to put these astronomical figures in perspective , i had a demonstration to confirm that to be among the top nine earners in the united states , one must pull out at least $ 150 per second , including time spent on eating and sleeping hours . that is $ 9,000 per minute , or about $ 540,000 per hour , on average . just how much do an american ’s top income earners make compared to the world one billion poorest individual individuals ? well , putting the top nine donated to their earnings would be the equivalent of roughly three months ’ income .
american power is , instead , seen as rest on a “ “ pillar of a ” “ that is , rather than a “ pillar of the action . ” us secretary of state john quincy adams famously proclaimed in his day in 1821 that the united states “ does not goes abroad , in scouting monsters to destroy . ” she is the well-wisher to individual freedom and independence . she is both a champion , and an vindicator only of itself . but soft-power inspiration is not the only ethical tradition in america ’s foreign policy .
the court ruled against the united states-based animal rights group people for its ethical treatment of animals to exhibit posters that the juxtapose photos of the holocaust ’s victims with photos of animals in factory farms and slaughterhouses . posters bear the head : “ “ “ to animals , all people are nazis ” – the backdrop of the polish-born jewish writer isaac bashevis the singer . according to the court , germany ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s laws for freedom of speech did not protect peta ’s ’s campaign , because to make “ the fate of the holocaust ’s victims seem banal and trivial in the face of human dignity . ” of course , peta was not arguing that the victims of holocaust ’ victims were banal or trivial in character . on the other hand , it used the holocaust , to which we would all agree was acutely horrific , to suggest , because isaac bashevis singer did , that parallels between the way the nazis treated jews were treated and the ways that we treat the animals .
rather , they are fighting to protect their own self-interest and livelihoods , whether doing so operates a dairy farm or running a government . as we continually attempt to apply new technologies to advance human and environmental well-being , the distinction is vitally important . dispelling the barriers to technological progress will require understanding and addressing its downsides . for example , as machines become increasingly competent , robots are replaced by an increasing number of workers . it will not be long before those robots can not only perform more complicated roles ; they can also learn faster than workers can be trained .
today , portugal is ahead of nearly € 20 billion ( $ 27.5 billion ) ahead of schedule . this represents a potential loss of more than 10 % of output to greece . lack of export-led growth thus made the recession in greece far longer and deeper than it otherwise would have been . if greek exports did grow at the same pace as portugal ( or spain ) did , a recession would have ended now . furthermore , inadequate export growth has made fiscal adjustment much harder .
given that 80 % of mexico ’s total trade exports go to america , the effects on mexico would be economically crippling and politically destabilizing , leaving the country even less-equipped to do anything for illegal immigration . contrary to the usmca , at least premised on the goal of tackling trade problems , trump ’s trade tariff pronunciamento have been a bald-faced effort to compel the mexican government to address america ’s own immigration problem . in other words , a trade weapon has been weaponized neither to address the trade issue nor , as part of a justifiable sanctions regime like that imposed following its illegal annexation of crimea in march 2014 . on rare occasions when trade sanctions were deployed for non-trade reasons , they have been an act of last resort , as was the case with apartheid south africa , where they have succeeded because they have multilateral support . once trade arrangements are used indiscriminately to advance nontrade goals , harm to the entire trading system does – and can be enormous .
new delhi – according to the united nations ’ population division , the world ’s ’s human population hit seven billion , on october 31 . as invariably happens whenever the us approaches such a milestone , this one produced a spike in conferences , seminaries , and taught articles , including routine malthusian predictions . after all , the un forecasts that the world population will rise to 9.3 billion in 2050 , and surpassing ten billion by the end of this century . yet , such predictions are misrepresenting underlying demographic dynamics . the future that the us faces is not one of too much population growth , but too little .
in exchange , the kremlin committed to supporting – but not until the us constitution changes – ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s own national government in its reassertion of control over those regions , just as over its border with russia does . theoretically , between governments in kyiv and the separatist leaders , there is plenty of reason for negotiations . the european union applies to pressure from all parties , including russia , where it adheres to the prospect of increased economic sanctions as the kremlin ’s eventual reward in peace-making efforts . for its part , russia has long offered to use what it calls its “ limitations , ” in order to persuade insurgent governments to cooperate . if , however , russia does wield full control over the separatist regions , and actively integrate it into its economy , as a bild document acquired by bild suggests , the kremlin can no longer be counted as an outside party , attempting to sway an uncooperative ally .
nothing reveals the decline of the united states in the region any more than the contrast between america ’s sober use of power in the first gulf war in 1991 and hubris and the deceit of today ’s all-out iraq war . by the summer of 1991 , america had forged its most formidable international coalition since the end of world war ii , driving it into a full-scale legitimate war aimed at restoring the regional balance following saddam hussein ’s invasion of kuwait . in 2003 , america went through a war without its own trans-atlantic allies , following the manipulation of false platitudes . in doing so , america embarked on a preposterous grand strategy , one that aimed no less at simultaneously dismantling iraq ’s tyrannical regime , restructuring its entire middle east , the destruction of al-qaeda , and helping democracy take root throughout the arab world . the outcome has been utter failure : military defeat and severe degradation in america ’s moral stand .
one of the oddest claims made in social-insurance debates now roiling globally ’s richest countries is that government-sponsored defined-benefit defined-benefit retirement programs ( like america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s social security system ) are outmoded . such programs have been okay , the argument goes , for the industrialized economies of the great depression and post-world war ii generations ; but they have become obsolete in today ’s high-technology , networked , post-industrial economics . proponents of this argument propose a different kind of model . just as corporations today are much happier supporting workers ’ pensions by contributing to employees ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ private accounts , that is , governments today should be offering ( or demanding ) contributions to privately owned accounts . the value of such accounts would fluctuate with a market , rather than resting on a defined-benefit scheme that guarantees the fixed-benefit firm ’s true sum of the resources at retirement .
does anyone in their right minds believe that any country voluntarily puts itself through whatever kind of what greece has gone through , just getting a free ride on its greek creditors ? if there is one thing for moral hazard , it runs on the part of greek lenders , particularly in the private sector , which has bailed out greece repeatedly . if europe has allowed these debts transfers from the private sector to the public sector , a well-crafted pattern over the last half-century , it is europe , not greece , that should bear the brunt of the crisis . indeed , greece ’s current plight , including the massive run-up in the debt-to-gdp ratio , is largely the fault of the flawed troika foisted on it . so , too , is n’t debt restructuring , but its absence that is “ immoral . ”
to be sure , neither scenario makes a lot of sense today . both europe and china have no particular interest in depressing their import ’s world prices or in resulting income . at the same time , employment considerations are not a central issue , either . while some european countries suffer from high levels of unemployment , there is nothing that protectionism can do for these countries ’ expansionary fiscal or monetary policies ( the latter by the european central bank ) can do no better . indeed , if europe , china , and other us trade partners were to retaliate in response to trump ’s tariffs , which they would simply discount their own gains from trade , without reaping any benefits from protectionism .
to save obama for the honor barely seems worth that risk . that is the view shared by many in syria even among the rebels . it is the attitude of the majority of people in europe today . it is also the view shared by the majority of people in the americas . perhaps this is even the view expressed by obama himself that he is playing for time , desperately turning over approval of an attack on syria for an american congress .
but we tend to retain into adulthood as much as the views of god that we formed in our infancy . an old person with a long beard observes over us , and most of us retain a fairly literal view of stories expressed in his son tell in bible ’s novel testament . it is this god that the atheists , like dawkins and hitchens , attack on each other . and , with such a target , they can not be very hard to poke holes and pile up ridicule . leave aside the fact that one can make an even stronger case against “ godlessness ” – recall the atrocities of the twentieth century ’s atheist totalitarians , and consider the assault on those whose allegiance to literal interpretations of religious texts means that they deny science and reason .
their preferred model calls for the un to provide funding and most other aid to its missions , while allowing the au to retain its leadership role . yet many western governments refuse to place their powers under au command because of their perceived vulnerabilities , and have conditioned further support for peacekeeping operations in darfur on the un ’s assumption of control . but the un found it hard to attract sufficient volunteers for such a force , given that foreign governments have acceded to sudanese demands that the hybrid force remain predominantly african . at the same time , a complex chain of command envisaged for the au-un force recalls some of the worst features of nato-russia operations in former yugoslavia during the 1990 ’s . the au commanders on the ground would retain tactical control , joint au-un command exercises exercising operational oversight , and the un established the force ’s overall strategic goals .
new york – there was an impressive resemblance between european central bank president mario draghi after the recent meeting of the ecb ’s governing council and us federal reserve board chair janet yellen ’s first testimony to congress : both asserted that their policy decisions would account for only domestic conditions . in other words , emerging-market countries , though subject to significant spillover effects from the advanced economies that were ’ exchange-rate policies , are on their own . this confirms what emerging-country authorities have known for some time . in may 2010 , following the fed ’s announcement of a third round of quantitative easing ( qe ) , brazilian finance minister guido manguido manguido mandraga accused advanced-country central countries of waging a global “ currency war . ” after all , the advanced economies ’ policies drove large , volatile capital flows to the major emerging markets , pushing up their exchange rates and eroding their export competitiveness – a phenomenon to which brazilian president dilma rousseff later referred to the “ “ capital tsunami . ”
riyadh – saudi arabia has lately drawn plenty of criticism for its leading role in the us-led war against the houthi rebels in yemen . some of the deride of the kingdom , the arab state ’s richest arab state , for taking actions against the country ’s poorest people . others claimed the fight against the houthis – an zaidi shia-led religious-nationalist movement – to be only one element in a wider shia war that saudi arabia was supposedly pursued . these are simplistic assertions , reflected in a more profound misunderstanding of the kingdom ’s hindu role in yemen and , indeed , throughout the arab world . saudi arabia is not out of reach out to that craven is .
for its part , china has shown itself adept at assertively promoting its national interest and playing neoclassical balance-of-power geopolitics . but , in order to dismember america and assume the mantle of leadership in asia , china must do more than pursue its own domestic interests , or contain potential rivals . most fundamentally , what do china actually represent in terms of us values and ideas ? far from reacting to that question , china ’s overly assertive policies have proved the diplomatic boon of america in strengthening and expanding american security arrangements in asia . south korea tightened its military alliance with american states ; japan backed down from a move to extract america ’s marine airbase from okinawa ; and india , vietnam , india , indonesia , and the philippines , among others ; drew closer ties to america .
instead of borrowing to pave the way for the still-expensive “ college classes ” student , poles exploited their 500 + advantage in the eu . and while women ’s employment rates declined because women left minimum-wage jobs , wages , especially for a store of retail services , rose sharply . given the program ’s dramatic success , other countries follow suit . lithuania introduced a less-than-generous version of its family 500 + in 2018 . those who care about democracy in poland , hungary , and elsewhere in europe and beyond should acknowledge that many voters buy into the nationalistic right of a social state that advances national priorities , cares for the poor , and supports families .
different people have been reading this way to make the case for a different set of issues . that may make resolution easier to adopt , but harder to enact it . so far , it comes as little surprise that a lack of peace can not be taken for granted between israelis and palestinians , despite the countless diplomatic undertakings of the un , the european union , and its member states themselves . to be fair , un resolution 242 can not be blamed for this state of affairs . peace comes only when a conflict becomes ripe for resolution , which happens when the un ’s principal protagonists are both willing and able to embrace compromise .
the baku-tbilitbilisi-ceyhan oil pipeline -- which drags on russia when it ends -- can not re-define the country 's economic strategy to the extent that shevardnadze sought . instead , georgian long-run economic success will depend on exports to the russian market : neither georgian wine nor georgian fruits is needed in either the united states or italy . at the same time , shevardnadze 's emphasis on the btc pipeline also evidently reflects georgian 's pro-western strategic orientation . that , too , is unlikely to make any difference under saakashvili . on the other hand , this is to become less a burden on bilateral ties , as russia himself moves closer to nato , the u.s. and europe .
the lesson of the libyan intervention , however , is that division can be overcome if the will exists . europe is not a monolith , yet , in many areas it may still be coherently , even without a complete agreement . whether or any other eu member state is today , the division need no fateful conclusion . to be sure , none of this means that an international intervention in libya will succeed ; the situation in libya is far too complicated to foresee the outcome . what this does mean , however , is that europe finds the way to work when it comes to foreign policy .
similarly , life expectancy at birth in ssa countries lagged for 16 years behind developing-country averages , 14 years behind the countries of south asia and 21 years behind the countries of east asia , latin america and the caribbean . in combined gross enrolment in primary , secondary , and university of higher education , ssa countries stood at 19 % below the developed-country average , 11 % below south asian countries , 29 % below east asia and the pacific , and 32 % below that of latin america and the caribbean . one of these broad-based underdevelopment ? until the late 1800 ’s , most of africa was unscrutinized and occupied by hunter-gatherers and general practitioners of low-status agriculture . land was relatively plentiful and allocated by tribal chiefs , without regard for western-style asset rights .
geneva – the recent sharp spike in food prices and mounting worries about food security is fueling anxieties worldwide . unable to place food on its table fills more parents with a deep sense of foreboding . and , because the world ’s poorest people are spending a higher share of their incomes on food , they are hardest hit , raising the risk that years of progress toward poverty reduction might reverse . the seemingly unalterable factors generating these record-setting factors are shaping up food prices , a shift toward higher protein diets in many countries , growing populations , larger use of biofuels , and climate change – implies that elevated food prices are here to stay . absent solutions that will ease growing pressure on supply , hunger and malnutrition will rise .
and that is precisely what the anti-corruption agenda often ends up stimulating : creating organizations that are more obsessed with abiding by abiding new , burdensome processes than does progress toward realizing their stated goals . as harvard ’s lant pritchett , michael woolcock , and andrews argue when inept organizations adopt “ best practices ” such as financial-reform systems and procurement regulations , they become excessively distracted by decision-distorting protocols to do as they are established for themselves . as francis fukuyama pointed out , developing a capable state that is both governed and ruled by law is one that crowning achievement in human civilization . it involves establishing a shared sense of “ us , ” ” ” ” ” ” a envisioned community in whose behalf the state acts . this is not an easy task when societies deeply divide ethnicity , religion , or social status .
up until 2014 , he overtook over and surrounding the presidential palace in favor of evoke ottoman splendor , a relatively transparent effort to compensate for his inability to shape regional developments on the basis of his – far less his country ’s – interests . that approach mirrors that of russian president vladimir putin , using the dark trappings and immense resources of his administration , to claim credit for restoring his country ’s national pride , particularly as he seeks to persuade ordinary russians to make economic sacrifices . likewise , erdoğan has positioned himself as a kind of protector of turks ’ dignity and a sense of themselves as constituting a great-power status . with the syrian conflict raging next door , however , erdoğan ’s claims are far from compelling . turkey confronts a refugee crisis that dwarfs the one confronting europe ; the proliferation of terror attacks on its territory ; and heightened tensions with the kremlin following its downing of a russian warplane near its border with syria in november .
us president bill clinton ’s trip to africa highlighted the american problem -- typically the most neglectful of africa , except when in deep-seated crises -- the dramatic changes that have been underway across the continent . and at this year ’s world economic forum annual meeting in south africa , nearly 900 leading american , european , asean , and africa met with japan ’s new political leadership to chart a path forward . of course , of course , intentions and results are at odds with each other . africa has a long road ahead . it ranks on most measures , a few decades , if not more , behind the advanced economies of economic organizations and income levels .
new york – over the past hundred years , contests of nationalism ( with god on either side ) almost annihilated europe and the cold war can do just that . a moment one believes that “ better dead than red ” you are in trouble . to die to save someone from one 's home , a family or country may be entirely rational . but , as a matter of martyrdom , martyrdom is distinct and dangerous . as the romanian philosopher e. m. cioran puts it : “ once man loses the faculty of indifference he or she becomes the potential murderer ; once it transforms his notion into an object of god the consequence is incalculable . ”
that , in a nutshell , has been the soviet model , which has failed time and will fail again . if putin is serious about diversifying and reinforcing russia ’s ’s ’s commodies-based economy to improve his country ’s lives , he will have to attract advanced technologies and foreign investment , particularly from the west . for that to happen , he will need to pursue democratic reform , as well as renewed diplomatic ties with the west . russia is in no position to shape an alternative international system ; but , as long as putin continues to pursue an obsolete and antagonistic foreign policy , he may undermine the current one . at a time when the world is confronting so many destabilizing challenges , this would be no good for some .
cambridge – will the political resurgence of a labour party that is shedding a wrench in the wheels of globalization ? or will their rising powers serve to make globalization more sustainable , by imposing great equality and fairness ? one way or another , trade unions stand as the main wild card in advancing the us economic system in 2008 and beyond . unions ’ rising influence is apparent in many recent events : german chancellor angela merkel ’s controversial agreement to raise minimum wages for postal employees ; several american presidential candidates , ’ open misgivings about business and immigration ; and the chinese leadership ’s nascent concern about labor standards . along with their own political clout , trade intellectual respectability , is also experiencing a renaissance .
and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in what is now an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
yet ambitious plans to boost its hydro-generating capacity , in sharp contrast to humming international rivers , have embroiled the country in its water disputes with most of its neighbors , even north korea . more broadly , china ’s hum-dam-building passion has dithered two key developments . first , chinese firms now dominate a global hydropower-equipment export market . sinohydro alone , having eclipsed western installations , alstom , general electric , and siemens , claims to control more than half of this market . second , state-run hydropower industries ’s growing clout within china led the government to campaign aggressively for overseas dam projects by offering low-interest loans to other governments .
new york -- many recurring debates in america 's foreign policy exist , for instance , isolationism versus internationalism and unilateralism versus multilateralism exist . but no debate is more persistent than one among those who think that america 's foreign policy ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s principal goal should be to influence the externalities of other states and those who hold that they should shape their inner nature . this debate between the “ realists ” and “ idealists " are intense and prolonged under negotiation . during the cold war , those who argued that the united states should try to “ roll back ” the soviet union and expel its communist system , replacing it with democratic capitalism . others regarded this as too dangerous in an era defined by nuclear weapons , and america was opting for the policies of containment , working to curtail the scope of soviet power and influence .
if britain ’s transition payments have remained near its current level of € 10 billion for the eu ’s five or six years realistically required to negotiate a permanent trading relationship , they will add up to the same rate . second , a britain ’s budget offer would be a powerful tool for creating “ deep and special partnership ” with europe , which may claim to be her ultimate goal . until last month , may avoided defining that phrase , owing to fears of antagonizing her party ’s hardline europhobes . but , in her florence ’s speech , she pledged something closer to british firms ’ current levels of access to eu markets . she has also recognized that any privileged approach for eu markets will require budget contributions , as has been done by norway and switzerland .
even if may herself choose to strike an exit deal , a sector-by-industry trade agreement is impossible to negotiate and ratify a sector-by-industry trade deal in less than two years . the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement , for example , took more than seven years to hash , and was almost scotching by belgium ’s parliament ’s ’s parliament ’s ’s ’s ’s wallonia region . there can not be phased execution ” of the trade pact , which has not been finalized , so uk-based firms , financial institutions , and other companies that export to the eu have now to begin preparing for the “ cliff edge ” of ” ” that may want to avoid . may ’s electoral mandate , after all , has no electoral mandate to pursue a hard brexit . many of the 52 % of britons who voted to leave want to remain within the single market , because do all of those who voted to remain .
what is enormously important and healthy is the notion of it . for the first time , a lively and smart debate is taking place on that question , which lies at the heart of the middle east ’s problems . because open societies are incompatible with closed economies , open societies have become incompatible with poor countries . a functioning private sector that creates adequate jobs , with school training educating a large young population for today ’s globally interconnected world prerequisites for progress . the israeli-palestinian question is crucial for any obvious reason .
the electorate seemed tired of the relentless confrontation between ceausescu and ba’athsescu , and – more broadly – confounding the bitter , nasty , and treacherous burlesque that their country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s political scene became . in his many successful years as sibibiu mayor , iohannis distinguished himself from the charismatic , shrewd politician to which the romanian disney is lashed out , proving to be a sober , laconic , and pragmatic service . this demeanor is part of what has made it so difficult to predict his victory over the more talkative ponta . but an iohannhannis different , not only in his political approach ; he is an evangelical baggage , in a particularly orthodox country . the vigorous religious attacks mounted against him during a campaign highlighted the reality of the establishment , although the orthodox leaders who backed ponta quickly switched their rhetoric from promoting tolerance and collaboration .
some of these can be taught or cultivated , with courses teaching positive mental customs , such as an appreciating issue or disregarding dwelling on setbacks , demonstrated measurable improvements in wellbeing . the dalai lama recently helped launch a set of such courses in london , developed through happiness action , the organization that i helped to find . at the same time , entire societies can strive to enhance one ’s happiness . british prime minister david cameron has introduced measuring happiness into national statistics , and , more recently , german chancellor , angela merkel , launched her program to promote citizen ’s wellbeing . how countries are governed has an enormous impact on happiness .
israel , for its part , is a tiny fraction of such a global pattern . more recently , there has been america ’s event-driven shift toward cooperation with russia on ending syria ’s ’s ’s civil war , following a chemical-weapons attack that left at least 1,400 people dead . all of this raises a more fundamental question : is america even needed an overarching design for its foreign policy ? if the result is to make its foreign policy less credible and predictable , or worse , a susceptible to misunderstanding – then it certainly does n’t . a new world order has given way to a order-less world , in which reliability and predictability have given way to quick fixes and fickle liabilities .
the 1986 financial services act put the end of a pure regime of self-regulation . financial interests opposed this time vigorously , viewing it as the thin end of a perilous wedge , even though they could n’t have guessed just how accelerating that wedge would ultimately become . likewise , it is hard to trace back to the origins of the credit explosion in the 1980 ’s and the proliferation of exotic , ill-understood financial instruments that lay at the heart of the 2007-2008 crisis . most dangerous trends , including an upsurge in global imbalances and the economy ’s dramatic financialization , have accelerated dangerously since the summer of 2004 . thatcher herself has been no enthusiast of credit , once famously said , “ i do n’t believe in the credit card . ”
a unilateral military strike by the us would carry potentially dire unintended consequences . alas , given former us president barack obama ’s lamentable handling of the syria crisis , israeli prime minister binyamin netanyahu might conclude that he has no option but to go it alone . indeed , iranian hardliners might welcome an israeli coup , and even sought to provoke it , as a means of rallying iranian populations behind them . there is a better way of preventing nuclear proliferation and other weapons of mass destruction in the region : a “ wmd-free zone , ” which is constructed on a system of incentives that includes economic and technical support among countries that join , along with security guarantees by united nations security council ’s permanent members . at the same time , the zone should enforce economic and political sanctions on states that it chooses to remain outside and , again , backed by the un security council ’s permanent members , re-imposing military sanctions on those attempting to develop wmds .
cambridge – more than 130,000 people are said to have died in syria ’s ongoing civil war . united nations reports about atrocity crimes , the internet of images of attacks against civilians , and accounts for the suffering of refugees rend our heart . but what is to be done and , by then , ? just recently , the canadian scholar-politician , michael ignatieff , urged american president barack obama to impose a no-fly zone over syria , despite the near-guarantee that russia would veto the un security council resolution necessary to legalize such a move . in ignatieff ’s view , if syrian president bashar al-assad ’s policy is allowed to prevail , its forces are obliterate the rest of sunni insurgents , at least for now ; with hatreds inflamed , bloodletting will eventually flow again .
now that a raucous regional situation is joining in a raucous american election season ( where no issue is excluded from the political arena ) , assembling those components will make an even harder task . it is too early to assess the historic effect of the arab spring ; but if there is one conclusion that can be drawn today , this is that israel and its palestinian neighbors have little in common . for the americans ( and others ) who believe that the arab world thinks in terms of nothing except a palestinian cause , events this spring in north africa , the arabian peninsula , and even the levant should make them believe otherwise . in the months ahead , one can expect the region ’s countries to remain fixated on governance and capacity building issues , human rights and how to develop economies that react to their restive arab citizens ’ demands for a better life . new arab leaders will struggle mightily with rising expectations and a willingness to go behind a peace process takes the back seat of that struggle .
london – vulnerable communities are facing the brunt of climate changes , from rising sea levels and extreme weather events to prolonged severe droughts and flooding . according to the world bank , without effective mitigation measures , they could push more than 100 million people out of poverty until 2030 . to help the most vulnerable communities become more resilient as a result of climate action , financial institutions should be supporting small , medium-size businesses . in emerging economies , small and medium-size enterprises account for as much as 45 % of employment and as much as 33 % of gdp , and these figures are considerably higher when they include informal small and medium-size enterprises . when the sme builds up its own resilience on climate action , it can have cascading environmental effects around it .
cutting methane , indeed , is actually cheaper than cutting carbon emissions . and , because methane is a much scarcer of shorter-lived gasoline than co2 , we can prevent some of the worst effects of short-term warming by mitigating it . agricultural production accounts for about half of anthropogenic methane , yet wastewater systems , landfills , and coal mining are generating gas at the same time . nobel laureate claudia kemfert of the german institute for economic research ( diw ) argues that spending between $ 14 billion and $ 30 billion to reduce methane would generate benefits , from warming cuts – from 1.4 to three times higher . we could also place a bigger emphasis on black carbon reduction , considered responsible for as many as 40 % of today ’s net warming , and about one-third of the arctic melting .
it never had to deal with the others as an equal , in contrast to the traditional power of europe , which did so for a century . nevertheless , china ’s challenge may turn out to be more difficult . it not only must live with america ’s strength in mind ; it must also reflect the american ideal . in 1989 , large numbers of chinese students took over tiananmen square in order to claim more rights , embracing a symbol resembling a statue of liberty . today , it is not america ’s military strength that challenges or challenges that china poses , but rather the enduring attraction of the “ american dream . ”
but , collectively , the eu ’s member states , even without the united kingdom , would constitute a kind of power of similar size . by bolstering its strategic sovereignty , therefore , europe could make such a g3 world politics a reality . a stronger , more unified european , the argument goes , might then rival american and china in most domains , including “ weaponizing ” its economic resources to further its geostrategic goals . yet europe ’s leaders , tempted by the prospect of a g3 world must tackle two separate concerns . first , it remains unclear how the eu will achieve the necessary level of integration , when most important of the bloc ’s decisions still call for unanimity among the member states .
after all , this is how the us administration handled canada and mexico . trump has temporarily exempted the two countries from us tariffs , but now expects concessions from them in his administration to renegotiate the north american free trade agreement . while america has a declining tariff protection than europe , on average , the difference is minor ( europe ’s zero-weighted customs duty averages 5.2 % , versus 3.5 % for america ) . both countries maintain a relatively open economy with stronger protections across specific industries . regulatory divergences constitute a far more important us-european trade obstacle than tariffs .
do n’t i somehow somehow somehow “ own ” ? do n’t i have the rights to control my own body ? how is a commercial firm not only denying me the right to know my own genetic profile unless i pay their royalties for a diagnostic test that might prove fair enough , but also block any other firm from offering me a similar test unless those firms pay the license fee ? proprietary rights for commercial firms over the most fundamental element of an individual ’s genetic identity should not be enforceable . we do n’t need to believe in genetic determinism to find that argument compelling .
for this reason , the global alliance ’s international secretariat against transportation in women has applauded the international for support decriminalization . there has also been opposition from some feminist organizations , alleging amnesty for protection “ pimps and johns hopping rights . ” instead , they have argued , it is important to end our demand for sex paid , but without explaining how this can be done . in a species that reproduce sexually transmitted sex is , for obvious reasons , one of the strongest and most pervasive aspirations . human beings are no exception in this regard , according to this view .
propelled by demand and outsourcing from the advanced economies , emerging markets won an increasing share of soaring merchandise trade in goods ; by 2014 , they accounted for more than half of global trade flows . yet since the great recession , growth in globalized merchandise trade has stalled , largely owing to the anemic world ’s anemic demand and plummeting commodity prices . at the same time , deeper structural transformation is playing a role as well . to be sure , many companies are streamlining and shoring up their supply chains , so that they can consume more of their own supply chains . for a variety of goods , automation implies that production locations and outsourcing choices no longer depend mainly on labor costs .
nonetheless , there is strong bipartisan support in america for retaining its military bases in afghanistan as a means to projecting hard power , and an increasingly charged confrontation between the us and russia over ukraine has boosted this support considerably . in fact , former us secretary of state condoleezza rice explicitly linked russia ’s actions in ukraine with the “ talking down the withdrawal ” of afghanistan , whether security conditions warrants it or do not . on rice , anything less than a residual force of 10,000 american troops sends the message that an american is not serious about helping to stabilize afghanistan , a message that might embolden russian president vladimir putin further . what it does n’t seem to recognize is that america ’s ’s ’s deteriorating ties with russia – a crucial conduit for america ’s military supply to afghanistan – might undercut its basing strategy . america is understandably convinced that an ongoing military presence in afghanistan is in its own interests .
in a sign of what is to come , poland ’s foreign minister , witold waszczykowski , told tabloid superekspres after a summit that the eu pursued “ a double standards and deceptions ” policy . according to waszczykowski , poland not only needs to reduce [ its ] ] trust levels , but “ must also start pursuing due policy , ” ” by blocking other initiatives , or entering an extremely aggressive game of attrition . in fact , polish prime minister beata szydło has already launched that strategy by refusing to sign on a summit ’s official record , as if this will render the outcome inconsequential for poland . such infantile ploys have become all too characteristic of a pis government , which has also refused to publish polish constitutional court rulings as if that makes them legally binding . no doubt , the pis government has paralyzed the court , thereby undermining the rule of law in poland .
that will require massive investment in new technologies and resources , rather than “ fighting a complete break with middle eastern oil . ” important energy technologies will involve coal conversion to liquids ( such as gasoline ) , the use of tar sands and shale , and the growth of non-fossil-fuel energy sources . indeed , there is vast potential for low-cost solar power , zero-emitting technologies , and a safe and reliable nuclear force . solar radiation equates roughly 10,000 times our current level of energy use , each of us of us . we tap that solar power in many fundamental ways – for example , food production , wind power , hydroelectric power , solar-thermal electricity , solar panels , but our opportunities for greatly increasing use of inexpensive , widely available , and environmentally just solar electricity .
in the 1950 's , asia conjured up image from poverty and starvation . brief political infatuation was stuck among some westerners in the 1960 's with the nehru jackets and maoist revolution , but short of a short run . as jan lennon was chanting in 1968 , “ if you are carrying out photos of chairman mao , ai can make it with anyone anyhow . " asia 's resurgence began with japan 's ultimate economic success . at the turn of this century , japan 's remarkable achievement not only made the japanese wealthy , but also enhanced the country 's soft power .
but , with fire-hungry and eu countries looking to stimulate spending , the council should also consider the shape of budget ’s role , ensuring that the mff does not impede future growth and investment . for example , the eu ’s proposed budget slavs financing cross-border infrastructure projects , including by expanding high-speed broadband backbone to rural areas and developing transportation and energy infrastructure . but the eu can add substantial value by coordinating supranational infrastructure projects , achieve economies of scale and avoid the duplicity of national spending . europeans would benefit directly through improved internet access , lower energy costs , and more efficient transportation linkages . likewise , to lay the foundations for future economic growth , the eu should nurture the new , sustainable industries , and innovative small , medium-size enterprises ( smes ) , not slash financing for important research programs like the horizon of 2020 .
in the wake of the sichuan earthquake , criticism of china will grow even harsher . in march 1997 , denmark , a nation whose men are a demonstrably demonstrably committed to human rights , challenged the united nations human rights commission in geneva to look into the ccp ’s long track record of abuses . china , for its part , was reacting by canceling the danish trade mission . france obtained that message , and the french soon stopped promoting human-rights resolutions directed at china at the logic of it . the french then were rewarded with a tough string of lucrative treaties within china .
the global agenda on this front determines the norms and norms that are shaping how public and private actors promote health , prevent disease , and administer care . it encompasses research initiatives and global public goods like vaccines and emergency-preparedness programs for epidemic outbreaks . and it brings people together to work toward the provision of universal health coverage and to ensure everyone ’s right to health care . within the sdg framework , discrete gender and health issues are intertwined , because gender alone is an important driver of health outcomes . gender can influence whether one class smokes tobacco , exercises with regular health coverage , or has access to nutritious food .
still , simply the us presence of a plurality of women has an effect . for example , studies of america ’s multiethnic courts have shown that feminine judges are often more willing to hear cases of bias when one woman is on the bench and significantly more willing when another woman adds up . “ every us , ” ” sandra day o’connor , the first female member of an american supreme court , renowned for not wanting to be identified as a “ “ “ “ “ “ “ female ” justice , ” “ brings to our work , anything of us , and our own values . ” in other words , women bring a fresh perspective , heard clearly only when a critical mass is at hand in any single institution . consider a woman ’s ’s perspective on the conflict , and you know it .
but choosing action to make the greater good abrecan not absolve us from one of its moral culpability . our hands become dirty when helping something from a terrorist or a war of choice is nothing else . the philosopher michael walzer puts the job well in : “ it is easy to get one ’s hands filthy in politics . ” nevertheless , he immediately adds up to say that this gets one ’s hand dirty in this way is “ often the right thing to do ” for us . finally , an adviser to authoritarian leaders can not escape the dilemma .
but 800,000 yemenis had been expelled in 1991 , because they saw a domestic security threat in tehran as part of a domestic security threat in tehran ’s first gulf war . yemeni labor has since been barred from saudi arabia , at least in part . embittered and unemployed , young yemeni men often become subject to another saudi policy gone awry , its propagation to exports of the sunni wahhabi state of islam . with the new wahhabi madrasas popping everywhere in yemen owing to saudi financial aid , it seems tiny to wonder that the masses of yemeni jihadis have grown exponentially . but yemen , too , has been pursuing its own destructive policies .
irrespective , honjo and her colleagues have identified yet another protein that has carried out a similar function . today , such fundamental studies have aimed at developing new , powerful immunotherapies to fight cancer effectively . yet there is still much to be learned from here . for some patients with certain cancers , immunotherapy has been revolutionary , enabled by those on the verge of dying to live healthy lives with no detectable footprints of disease . yet the immunotherapy revolution remains in its infancy .
but it has pursued this approach on the macro level , and on the problems elsewhere in the economy without first scrutinizing itself . silicon valley ’s citibank must begin by applying its prowess to innovation – and its pride in the “ breaking things ” – for itself . the only way to evolve is through adaptation to new environmental pressures ; now , silicon valley , owing in large part to its own behavioral ones , is faced by many . unless that changes , it will be overhyped . the good news is that , if any place has proved to be able to innovate , it is silicon valley .
establishing a structured , well-functioning goat market helps to create a positive feedback loop . if farmers are confident that their goats can not be stolen and can sell at a decent price , they are better able to invest in upgrading their own production system . here , too , a platform for innovation is helping . for starters , we trained farmers in how to upgrade their soil by expanding legume crops , residues who can use as goat fodder . recognizing these practices ’ benefits , farmers immediately began to boost crop density , apply manure , and rotating crops , to boost yields and make more room for healthier goats .
in the early nineteenth century , wages stagnated for nearly 50 years , before picking up again . that may have been an increasingly extreme situation , but it is now becoming more deeply familiar . for lower-skilled workers , however , a transition underway today could prove just as wrenching . with worries about rising inequality already mounting , it will take time for governments to rethink radically and at the expense of displaced workers . looking forward , policymakers and companies should keep five imperatives in mind .
in large part , this is a matter of thinking , not of meaning . fortunately , the mindsets are starting to make a shift . at the 2016 au summit in kigali , african leaders acknowledged that , despite the au ’s achievements , it remained under-resourced and inefficient , operating below potential , and failing to implement multiple decisions . to reinvigorate the au , it tasked rwandan president paul kagame with leading a process in which all have been deeply involved . less than three years later , a slew of reform recommendations wrought by kagame and a pan-african committee of female experts to appoint – through an inclusive , consultative process involving african leaders and other stakeholders – are being pursued .
both countries have floating exchange rates , which means that their central banks are not inclined to intervene in a currency market by buying and selling their reserves . more fundamentally , why are we thinking more about reserves than we tend to think about other assets on their national balance sheets ? to see why , suppose ilan goldfajn , brazil ’s stellar central banker , the bond market issues in new york , and use the dollar ’s proceeds to enlarge the country ’s international reserve currency . at best , it will be easy for market participants to applaud trouble ; at worst , they will be indifferent , because brazil ’s ’s net debt position will not make a difference . now , suppose that one of argentina ’s private agricultural exporters also issues an international bond , using a dollar to enlarge one of its modern , high-competitive dairy plants to sell more powdered milk to asia .
in india , for example , prime minister narendra modi is implementing a strategy transforming india into a tech powerhouse , and setting the stage for a digital future . in france , the government has invested through an expansive national digital plan , which is predicted to generate 1.1 million jobs over the next 3-5 years , and is contributing $ 101 billion to gdp over the next decade . while other countries are embracing a robust digital strategy , america is falling behind . despite having spearheaded the internet race in the 1990s , america is currently the only major developed economy , without an unambiguous digitization plan . the consequences are already becoming apparent : according to a 2016 bloomberg communications index , america is currently the world ’s eighth most innovative country , having shrunk two spots since 2015 .
fortunately , some countries are introducing innovative measures to tackle this problem . in georgia , for example , political parties that comprise at least 30 % of each gender on their electoral lists receive a 30 % supplemental state budget , on average . similarly , in ireland , political parties lose 50 % of national financing if their candidate pool includes less than 30 % of gender either . beyond funding constraints , women are confronting high societal and cultural barriers to political participation . in particular , greater care responsibilities , reinforced by public perceptions of a “ feminine ’s role , ” are severely undermining women ’s ability to run for public office .
by all accounts , iran is a deeply divided society between those who want their country to be a respected member of the international community , and those for whom iran ’s international standing is better served by a nuclear-weapons program . the international sanctions imposed by iran would appear to have gone to the latter level , rather than to the past . that might well be true if iran was a full-fledged democracy , accountable to the people ’s will . but there is scant evidence to suggest that the sanctions did anything to slow iran ’s nuclear program . moreover , as is so often the case , the sanctions may have done more to decimate the middle class and further to weaken the least powerful than to compel iran ’s leaders to seek an agreement .
it is , one hopes , that the paris agreement does make a difference . as with the information-technology revolution , advances in clean-energy will require engaging both at the level of the public as well as at the private sector . because we are not yet aware of which innovations will be the most important in decarbonizing the economy , investment needs to be allocated to a broad array of choices . long-term patient finance also needs to be made available to help firms minimize uncertainty and bridge the so-called “ death valley ” between basic research and commercialization . the bec ’s argument for a “ new model ” will become public-private partnerships among governments , research institutes , and investors ” shines a welcome spotlight on relationships .
but those challenges will not be tackled , and opportunities will not be realized unless children everywhere have the skills they need . for these reasons , my country , senegal , has a long commitment to hand over its children – especially girls and those from disadvantaged backgrounds – into quality education . we made just 25 % of our home budget in 2017 , representing near 7 % of gdp , in educating our children and the young . furthermore , we are planning to provide up to 90 % of the funding for a new program to improve the quality of senegal ’s ’s ’s education system from now to 2030 . even so , senegal is struggling to fulfill all of the costs of strengthening its education system .
an objective must be to revitalize european security integration ( in its broadest sense ) , lifting europe in its forefront in global security policy . as eu member states advanced along that path , propelled forward by technological and operational excellence and innovation , they may find avenues for eliminating unnecessary spending and optimize the use of resource exploitation . europe ’s defense industries will not be able to make progress without a well-functioning marketplace – an open , transparent , and equal opportunity for all european suppliers . advances in the defense industry lead to important positive externalities , such as civil-military synergy and investment in research and development , that are fundamental to growth , innovation , and future competitiveness . a critical component in coordination and properly functioning europe ’s security and defense policy is the european defense agency .
for example , china banned the shark-fin soup , the kind of traditional delicacy gained , in an official rule and roles , a move that contributed to a 30 % drop in shark-fin sales since last december . in guangzhou ’s southern town , the center for trade in china ’s shark-fin vendors reported a 82 % drop in sales over the past two years . for other , it should not be hard to spur countries to take action to protect their shark populations , given that a shark ’s own economic fortunes plummets once it dies . a study by the australian marine institute has found that palau ’s shark-diving industry is worth well beyond its shark-fishing industry . a single reef shark , which frequents major dive sites in the palau , is worth about $ 179,000 per year , or about $ 1.9 million over its lifetime ; a similar shark would be worth about $ 108 dead .
tudjman 's pretext was that croatia needed to concentrate power in its struggle against serbian aggression . the truth is that it used a winning hostility with slobodan milosevic to solidify personal rule and a russian-style plunder of state characteristics by its coterie of partnership loyalists . to try to make this way with minimal fuss that he muzzled print and electronic media . despite hostility between serbia and croatia to dealing with the dictator of milosevic , despite hostility towards milosevic was simple . because both tudjman and milosevic believed in ethnically homogeneous states , they fomented forced labor transfers ( ie , ethnic cleansing ) , and the division of territories between themselves .
the currently proposed arrangements would allow the chinese government to veto any candidate it dislikes , spurring criticism of what is on offer , an iranian-style election : “ you may vote for anyone we choose a ” ” ” ” ” ” ” ” . as a result , hong kong ’s government could call a change to add openness and fairness , by which the chief executive is chosen without abandoning its current method in favor of universal suffrage . under the basic law , the election committee ought to be “ broadly representative ” – the body that ’s current composition violates . its membership is chosen by a mere 7 % of hong kong ’s total electorate , and its voting procedures seek to block the nomination of any candidate who may harbor a democratic sympathies . since at least 1997 , 55-61 % of voters have voted in favor of democratic candidates in the legislative council in the legislative council .
in promotion of democracy , liberals dismiss the argument used by today ’s rulers that bringing free elections to an instant , because the islamists would win and form the country ’s theocratic regimes . the reformers insist that an overwhelming majority supports a moderate solution , or at least that it is necessary to make radical islamist groups pragmatic to compete for power and govern . yet that case remains far from proven , at least so far . january ’s palestinian election won a relatively moderate leader , because he was brought on by the ruling fatah movement and the islamists boycotted hamas ’s electoral victory . but , in gaza strip ’s local elections soon , the radical islamists who use terrorism won seven of the ten municipal councils .
increasingly , industries are implementing approaches that ensured success at the expense of other sectors , such as by reducing procurement costs and deploying lean principles in the manufacturing sector . as clean-tech firms continue to scale up , additional opportunities will emerge to improve . a shakeout in a shadow tech sector has been hard ; but it has also been characteristic of emerging technologies and , by weeding out weaker players , has made the sector a more robust sector . this is the global segment meeting an increasing global need for this . there is little room to dispute that the clean-tech sector can expect many sunny days ahead .
princeton – the economic gloom that enveloped the world in 2008 led many to wonder whether the apparent prosperity that preceded it was real . we know that , in countries as diverse as china , india , russia , and the united states , the number of self-made billionaires soared . more broadly , the top 1 % of the us population prospered more effectively . but the gap between the rich and the poor widened , and , at least in america , incomes in the poor and a middle-class stagnated.ampnbsp ; so did the gap between the rich and the poor . no wonder that many are skeptical of taxpayer-financed schemes to bail out banks , insurers , and even automakers .
their guiding goals are to allow companies and organizations to set sustainability goals and keynesian performance indices ; monitor , prepare , and disclose comparative data that measure their economic and esg performance ; and integrate sustainable production and consumption practices within companies ’ business strategies and models . global awareness about the topic is rising , at least in view of the topic . recently , mark carney , the governor of bank of england and g20 chairman of the financial stability board , and michael bloomberg , the former new york city mayor and ceo of bloomberg lp have issued his announcement on market data concerning market data . given his magnitude , however , the importance of ensuring efficient coordination and oversight of such efforts with relevant standard-setters , regulators , and professional organizations is particularly important . the america securities and exchange commission ( sec ) already discusses these issues , as it analyzes opportunities for investor and entrepreneurial response needs about esg .
in particular , small landholders need new tools that enable them to achieve faster productivity while establishing more sustainable production methods . at last december ’s g20 summit and the united nations conference on sustainable development in rio de janeiro are the pivotal opportunity to lay the groundwork for a more holistic , international approach to global economic reconstruction and sustainable development . the pursuit of thriving , inclusive economies must work together to tackle climate change and achieve universal food security . but the outcomes that the world needs are a viable financing of the options and frameworks needed to underpin economic transformation , just as integrated ecological , sustainable-development governance can not be achieved without political will . success at los cabos will depend on g-20 leaders ’ ability to galvanize the same level of collective , concerted action that enabled them to head off the global recession in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis .
new york – the global financial markets were experiencing their worst recession since the great depression of the 1930 ’s . major financial institutions went bust ; still others were bought on an cheap , or survived only after the major bailouts . global stock markets plummeted by over 50 % ; interest-rate spreads soared ; a severe liquidity and credit crunch materialized ; and many emerging-market economies staggered to the international monetary fund for help . so , what lies ahead in 2009 ? is the worst that beforehand , or ahead of the us ?
good news is not news ; media executives do often turn over to mutter . and it takes just a moment for twitter or cable news to validate the old adage : “ if it bleeds , it leads . ” add to that a second data neuroscientists debate : because our species have evolved to fend off hazards , we tend to be more sensitized to bad news . we overreacted more acutely to photos of starving children than to report improvements in nutrition levels in africa . and , of course , we tend to remember those horrible pictures much longer .
china ’s government has seemingly begun to appreciate the limits of cover-ups and stonewalling , and perhaps also the merits of permitting a few room for free speech . this thirst for unbiased information highlights the dramatic change brought about by the internet of china ’s political landscape . nowadays , a government no longer monopolizes information and the right to trial itself . insightful bloggers attracts considerably more clicks than do official mouthpieces . a “ virtual civil society ” in politics is in the making .
new york – countries often devote their public money to promoting export of proprietary goods and services . but non-voting resources to encourage imports , as china does with its inaugural international import expo , which just opened up in shanghai , is actually scarce . annual import expo , to be part of china ’s overall import promotion strategy , has attracted thousands of firms worldwide by promising big orders from chinese firms , including state-owned enterprises that the government tasked with making the expo a success . if the expo succeeds in boosting imports , one might expect to reduce china ’s own trade surplus . but that need not be the case now .
london – the historian norman stone , who died in june , has always insisted that history students learn overseas languages . language provides access to people ’s cultures and cultures in its histories . its history tells us as much as it sees itself and others as enabling . gene knowledge should thus be an essential component in the role of a historian . it is the key to understanding both the past and the future of international relations .
while this scenario is straightforward , the reality is not . the first nagging question is this : will there really be an election next january ? prime minister ludwig allawi assures the world that there will come , and president bush has echoes his phrase . more neutral observers – and , indeed , the daily news bulletins about bombings and hostages who take on and “ insurgents ” – have cast doubt on this prospect . the likelihood that iraqis will hold this coming january needs to be less than 50 % , and one can be sure that doing so will not be a free and fair election throughout the entire country .
atlanta – as the united states marks the first anniversary of us president donald trump ’s election , the question of how trump has won commands for continued attention , with russia ’s role moving increasingly onto the center stage . every new revelation in an investigation of russia ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s meddling in the 2016 campaign brings american democracy ’s vulnerability to a sharper focus . just last week , the us congress unveiled legislation that would push facebook , google , and other social-media giants to disclose who are buying off online advertising , thereby closing the loopholes that russia exploited in the us election . but making amends through technical fixes , as well as public promises to be better corporate citizens , will tackle only the most publicized problem . the harsher challenge will be to empower institutions that are vitally important to a functioning democracy – specifically , civics training , and local journalism .
still , when the ends are obvious , politicians are often clueless . in america ’s presidential campaign , the protection of “ trade is fashionable yet again . ” but , while import restrictions may ease some manufacturing districts ’ pain , they wo n’t stop companies from relocating where growth opportunities are the strongest . at the same time , they will not protect workers from technological change ; they will stop poverty from occurring at the end of the day . and they will not recreate yesterday ’s patterns of development .
a move by military officers in tripoli against qaddafi and his sons may bring an end to the conflict , with military commanders acquiring credits and political capital . but four decades of military-based dictatorships may suffice for libyans , an overwhelming majority never actually benefited from their country ’s wealth or potential . when it comes to producing terrorist and undocumented migrants – two critical questions to europe – arab military dictators have an inglorious record . algeria in the 1990 ’s is a potent reminder of this , with western governments unwilling to let the vicious cycle of repressive autocrats producing violent theocrats and refugees in order to restart . making it stuck in transition ” is a third plausible scenario , with libya remaining in a “ greek exit ” country , neither fully-fledged democracy nor a dictatorship but “ semi-free ” dictatorship .
but , of course , if there were any involvement in a case against a muslims , which had to be dealt with in an islamic court . when a muslim and non-muslim woman confronted each other in a trial , muslims enjoyed significant advantages . first , the judges ’ training predisposed them to impart the benefit of casting doubt on a fellow muslims . second , the court ’s staff was thoroughly muslim , meaning that testimony is being viewed solely from a muslim perspective . third , whereas muslims could attest to anyone , christians and jews could attest to another non-muslim .
some argue that the real point is the risk of attack and destruction , which might occur if the weapons of mass destruction are deployed . they employ something of a noxious /benefit analysis based on an subjective sense of danger . but there is no way to make an objective assessment of fear , and even if this were feasible , by using a cost/benefit analysis to invade another country ’s territory would wreak havoc on the global system of national sovereignty and international law . a better way to make a sense of unilateralism is to invoke two principles that underlie legal claims of justification within both domestic and international law . the first principle is reciprocity , which implies that if israel were given the right to launch a osirak reactor , iraq had the right to bomb an israeli nuclear facility at dimona .
most economies become less fair , with the widening gaps between rich and poor . and violent conflict remains widespread , with some of the world ’s poorest regions suffering most at risk of outbreaks . with these challenges in mind , world leaders agreed at rio +20 ’s summit to embrace sustainable development goals ( sdgs ) . world ’s governments asked the united nations secretary-general to coordinate preparations for these goals by the year 2015 with the goal of securing a seamless shift away from the millennium development goals ( mdgs ) that expire that year . a critical un general assembly meeting will take place before september .
today , starbucks employs about 182,000 people globally , up from just 50,000 in ten years than facebook , google and apple combined . an argentine , jordanian , malaysian , or spaniard who can visualize and create a thriving global demand for product or service , just as spain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s amancio ortega did with zara is just as much an entrepreneur as an entrepreneur like another us bill gates is . from lahore to lagos , mexico ’s governments look to their own populations as pools of talent that they wait are tapped . it ’s time for diplomats to do the same . they should stimulate and motivate job creators and trouble solvers , and turn development aid toward investment .
while such policymakers often describe themselves as `` rightist , '' dues , their genuine policies , such as that pursued by , say , those former slovak prime minister vladimir meciar , are in fact an demagogic populist or authoritarian manner . the position of political right in any central european country also affects experiences rooted in their histories and tradition . the political developments in slovakia during the past 20 years of communism ’s rule set the czech republic , and slovakia , apart from both poland and hungary . whereas both polish and hungarian communist parties experienced internal liberalisation , which enabled relatively large semi-official zones of operations outside of communist control , slovakia after its soviet-led invasion invasion of 1968 became a rigid neo-stalinist regime . when poland 's communist regimes collapsed in 1989 , poland 's communist parties and hungary transformed themselves into the credible democratic-left parties that had become the formidable opponents of the newly-emerging political right .
the eu ’s july ’s maastricht treaty specifically reserves this tax-and-transfer body to member states , a reflection of europeans ’ unwillingness to transfer funds to other , ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ people in the way that the american people are prepared to do among themselves in diverse states . a third important difference is that all american states are required by their constitutions to balance their annual operating budgets . whereas a “ rainy day ” in return means that they accumulate in boom years are used to deal with temporary revenues shortfalls , nation-states ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ “ general obligation , ” borrowing constrains capital projects like roads and schools . even a state like california , viewed by many as a poster child for fiscal profligacy , now has an annual budget gap of just 1 % of its gdp and an overall obligation debt of only 4 % of gdp . such limits on state-level budget deficits are a logical implication of the failure of america ’s inability to create money to fill the fiscal gaps .
to my mind , i certainly do n’t feel any safer as an economics professor ! my little doubt is that , sometime later this century , one can buy my pocket professors , perhaps with holographic images of it , just as easily as one can buy a coinage computer kasparov today . so , let ’s return to india and china , for that matter . globalization proceeded at an accelerating pace through much of the past century and , at especially , accelerated pace during its final two decades . yet a huge body of evidence suggests that technological change has been a much larger driver in global wage patterns than trade .
specialization within each country allows people to receive more of what they want , which – particularly at higher income levels – includes cleaner air and water levels . when trade does drive down costs , it can benefit environmental goods just as much as it benefits other goods . so , is trade-based globalization on balance , better or worse ? some empirical studies of cross-country data locate the net beneficial effects of ecological degradation like local sulfur-dioxide pollution indicators . insofar as countries have effective national governance institutions , trade and growth giving their means to clean up their air .
tokyo – during the cold war , a term “ kremlinology ” referred to efforts to understanding what went wrong with the soviet union ’s commanding heights , indeed behind the entire iron curtain . indeed , kremlinologists monitored ( in whatever way possible ) that were up , and who has been down among the core soviet control of the country ’s soviet leadership . earlier this year , great relevance was read by who signed an official document , or who stood where atop lenin ’s tomb in red square after reviewing military parades . all of this was grammar-school stuff compared to an effort to deceit in north korea , where truth is far more opaque . consider what has happened on december 17 .
in a desperate , last-ditch effort , the imf is already inventing “ spill-over ” reports for a couple of systemically important us economies to be conducted at the margins of its country ( article iv ) consultations . that initiative is destined to fail – as has the imf ’s multilateral surveillance exercise , or g-20 peer reviews , in its recent history . indeed , even if massive spillovers are plainly recognized , it is hard to see how this exercise would address a fundamental problem beyond a currency war : the major players ’ apparent unwillingness to reconcile vastly different national interests . so , what , exactly , should the latin american economies do ? surely they have a right to go to defense , whether through foreign-exchange intervention and consequent reserve accumulation ( a potentially lucrative option when capital flows are indeed temporary ) , imposing capital controls , or other current-macro-prudential policies geared toward countercyclical exchange-rate smoothing .
if china let its currency float backward then , it would depreciate against the dollar , deepen the crisis . countries were warned : escape trade deficits and building up reserves because they are key frontlines defenses . east asian countries followed this advice , and for a good reason : they saw the effects of a shortage of reserves . east asian governments then knew that the imf ’s policies would deepen their downturns , but were powerless to resist . the imf had the money that it had to do with it .
welfare-to-work programs in michigan and wisconsin have served as models for federal welfare reform under president bill clinton , and obamacare relies on massachusetts , ’ health-care financing system , introduced under republican governor mitt romney . likewise , from 2000 to 2014 , by enacting a mix of individual energy policies , from broad climate-change planning to mandated renewable-energy standards , 33 states slashed carbon dioxide emissions , while expanding their economies . more recently , a number of us states have introduced cap-and-trade schemes to put a price on carbon , with many already on track to meet obama ’s clean-power plan targets . half of all us states have now legalized marijuana in some form , with eight embracing fully legalization . three states have implemented pay-for-success laws , with fourth-by-doing .
cambridge – “ i want to be a part of it – i want to be part of the new york times , new york city , frank sinatra sang from a city that attracted so many of the world ’s most ambitious people , from the artists and performers to the businesspeople and bankers . in a sense , this is not a difficult phenomenon to explain ; metropolises like the new york city , with their eponymous populations , multinational corporations , and the multitude of talented people , are rife with opportunities . but the impact of big cities is driving deeper than economic or even cultural powers ; cities can fundamentally alter people ’s lives , and even the people themselves . in 2010 , geoffrey the west , in conjunction with a commodity team , discovered that a series of socioeconomic arrangements , both positively and negatively , increase with local levels . in other words , greater average levels of cities , higher average wages , increased productivity levels , lower per person ’s rate of patents , crime rates , anxiety ’s prevalence , and incidence of hiv .
( presumably an eventual victor in his bid would be required to enter into a joint-production arrangement with india that american companies would not do . ) as if all of this were not sufficient to decide against america , the clincher may well have been india ’s government ’s desire to avoid future procurement controversy at a time when corruption allegations are beset by all parties . a decision made on technicality , many feel , would be easier to defend than one based on policy overtures . against this are the unambiguous advantages of pleasing a major new ally , and developing a pattern of on-supply bilateral military cooperation , training , and operations , and operations , all of which have so far developed . at a time when america ’s nuclear-reactor purchases – made possible by an historic deal negotiated by the bush administration – ran up by america ’s insistence on exemptions from supplier accountability when the accident was taken , in some regard , india ’s ’s ’s ’s spurning of us aircraft as gratuitous rejection of an opportunity to show that friendship with india can be demonstrated , too .
as a result , big transnational institutions are lobbying hard for a pan-european approach to banking supervision and regulation ( and , implicitly , for fiscal bailouts should that supervisors fail oversight and regulation fails ) . when eu banks are required by state rescues , european competition regulations are requiring divestment and downsizing . institutions like the royal bank of scotland – which , at the height of 2009 , headed by the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s largest international banks – are being pruned by the eu ’s managing director for competition . even the stronger banks are squeezed by the push to raise their capital buffers . in most cases , this implies that they will continue to cut back on lending , aggravating the effects of a financial crisis on the rest of the economy .
immediately , north korea did just that , threatening to conduct a “ enveloping ” strike at america ’s inner territory . trump shot back that the american military is “ locked and laden ” . and , indeed , just as that rhetorical fire exchange has unfolded , america has reportedly been preparing a revised military option for striking north korea . ominous , according to confidential american intelligence briefings , north korea has just accomplished its capability to miniaturize nuclear warheads , possibly having as many as 60 bombs . the stakes are rising in kim and trump ’s “ chicken game . ”
from all this , two conclusions can be drawn about . the first is that we all owe at least some of our success to others , given the public goods that society provides . this calls for more modesty and restraint in determining high wages , not for moral reasons , to make such a system sustainable . a second finding is that the most privileged classes that benefited the most from others ’ solidarity , notably the poor , can no longer deny the latter ’s latter contributions . but do n’t hold one ’s breath waiting for a deal .
when sweden had done it , the swedes said no . they understood that their unemployment would rise if a central bank set out a central bank , which focused single-mindedly on high inflation ( as well as insufficient attention to financial stability ) . the economics would suffer , because the economic model underlying the eurozone was predicated on the power relationships that disadvantaged laborers . and , to be sure , sufficient , what we are seeing now , 16 years after the euro ’s institutionalized relationships are the antithesis of democracy : many european leaders want to see the end of prime minister alexis tsipras ’s leftist government . after all , they are extremely inconvenient that in greece is a government that is so opposed to the kinds of policies that did so much to raise inequality in so many advanced countries and that is so committed to curbing unbridled power of wealth .
durham – earlier this year , islamist politics faced massive setbacks in two major predominantly muslim countries : egypt and turkey . yet , far too soon , it is to write political islam off as an able participant – even lead – in a pluralist democracy . just one year after mohamed morsi became egypt ’s first-ever freely elected president , millions of egyptians took to the streets to draft a military coup that ousted him . morsi ’s embrace of political incompetence and a lack of vision in the face of an economic meltdown would do well to hollow out support for his rule . but his rejection of pluralism and the pursuit of an islamic dictatorship , exemplified by his attempt to centralize power within the hands of the brotherhood and the eu himself beyond a review of egypt ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s judiciary , has proved to be its undoing .
on may 19 , a group of korean researchers published in journal science the research output that , for the first time , isolated human embryonic stem cell lines specifically tailored to match the dna of young and rural women of different ages . the next day , the british researchers at newcastle university announced that they had been successful in producing a cloned human embryo using donated eggs and genetic material from stem cells . both breakthroughs constitute a spectacular advance in stem cell research . embryonic stem cells are pluripotent , meaning that they have the capacity to develop in any sort of humane tissue . this carries big promise , particularly for sufferers of spinal cord wounds and diseases .
this includes ramping up its tradable-permit program by arresting the threshold beyond which firms must pay , as well as eliminating exemptions from income-sector permits or industries . such actions would not only foster fiscal sustainability – via additional revenues could provide an overall 2 % of gdp ; they would also improve the efficiency of overall resource allocation . finally , by streamlining its vast administrative hierarchy , china can lower its vast administrative spending ( in medium-term terms ) . in recent decades , many of the world ’s largest firms have dedicated themselves to new technologies in order to reduce employee layers , from top executives to factory workers , thereby lowering costs and enhance efficiency . by contrast , china ’s government retained an equally six-layer of management structure , beginning with the central government , moving down through the provinces , prefectures , counties , township and villages since its inception 70 years ago .
indeed , the risk in a world free of nuclear weapons – or even a minimal number of them – is of enormous scale . nuclear competition – the threat of slaughter by hundreds of thousands or millions of people – is a concept that does not fit into traditional morals . yet it has worked , preventing catastrophic wars , while making people more civilized and excessively cautious . when one pole of nuclear deterrence weakened , owing to russia ’s political decline in the 1990 ’s , nato , the defending union of democratic and peaceful states committed aggression against yugoslavia . now that russia has reneged on this capability , such a move would have been unthinkable .
as the tragedy has unfolded , researchers gained greater understanding . prions seem to defy any conventional wisdom , survive pressurecooking , irradiation , and even 340 incineration for four hours of four hours – treatment that is best and reliably used to depoliticize all known viruses and bacteria . moreover , prions do not lack their own genes every day . the gene provides an infected individual in which it resides in an innocuous state . infectious prion then hijacks the body ’s machinery , reprogramming it to the willing executioner .
performing european arts advocates point to america , where - among other things - the music directors of even major orchestras are now expected to participate fully in fundraising activities , and are active on local communities in the orchestras . by the same token , fear is about to happen in europe . some of the us conductors , rather than wanting to conduct a tin cup as it sets their batons , have dismissed important posts in america for this reason , feeling that it interferes with their arts . daniel barenboim is rumored to have left the chicago symphony orchestra partly because his opposition to the fundraising demands brought about by it . but america ’s experience shows that obtaining artistic leaders like orchestra music management to participate in fundraising needs need not be bad for labour ’s artistic side .
we should not forswear this possibility , but we ought to contemplate others , not least because the security council – whose backing would be politically , if not legally , crucial – might never support an invasion . it would be strange to uphold the council ’s authority through means that it has not gained its endorsement . rather , the council is accepting the possibility of an mounting punitive air strike program – going well beyond what was done in 1998 – on suspected wmd sites , presidential compounds , republican guard , and other armed-force targets . this would harm and weaken saddam , establishing unmistakably the message that the un ’s defiance carries severe sanctions . at the same time , the council could declare that any fresh aggression or any use , threats or transfer of wmd , would trigger saddam ’s removal and his pursuit as international criminal like slobodan milosevic .
soon thereafter , the us-led inspectors returned to tharmiya in . this time , they recognized precisely what chávez was for : creating weapons grade nuclear materials . this time dr. ahmed , his counterpart in iraq , realized that the game was up . some of the un inspectors that he knew well , sined with them on collegial terms while visiting vienna . that he would lie to them , brazenly were incomprehensible to his cronies on his inspection team .
but china ’s dizzying rise also dispelled three leading myths about its impact on economic growth . the first is that growth reduces inequality and increases happiness . in 1955 , the nobel laureate economist simon kuznets hypothehypothesized that income inequality would rise steeply and then decline , in the pattern of the inverted “ u ” or bell , as countries underwent economic development . given the pace of china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economic rise since 1978 , its experience refutes that claim more powerfully than any other country . china , after all , is today one of the most unequal country in the world .
thus , pakistan has pursued one more step-by-step approach to developing a political system based on the rule of law . of course , democracy is always supposedly intended to mean more than periodically holding free and fair elections . it must also mean developing the robust rule of law , rewarding people enforceable property rights , and giving citizens an institutional means to settle their disputes . pakistan held a free and fair election in 2002 and 2007 , and is prepared to hold one by the end of 2012 or later in 2013 . had the supreme court not deposed gilani , he would have been the first prime minister to complete his full term .
by contrast , cuba ’s government continues to detain prisoners of conscience and criminalization demands for a society-wide dialogue . europe ’s peoples mark the twentieth anniversary of the fall of the iron curtain that once divided europe in two . that 20 years since that epochal event , which an “ iron curtain ” remains around cuba ’s making of that anniversary poignant . to be sure , the tourists that crowd cuba ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s beaches remain unclear . but , regardless of that ignorance and its economic interests , the eu should insist on freeing political prisoners and using all international institutions to put pressure on cuba ’s government to respect cuba ’s human and civil rights ’s human and civil rights ’s human rights .
brigadier general kyaw hsan , chief of the us army , recently reported that un special envoy ibrahim gambari was that marchers in the streets were “ bogus polish monks . ” yet we are genuine , with hundreds of thousands of us – from rangoon – from rangoon , mandalay , pegu , makan , mwe , and sagaing – have demonstrated for peace . some have said that the uprising in burma is now over . that , after all , is what the military junta wants to see the world in its direction . but , in my country , we believe that the protests represent the beginning of the end of military rule .
but plato would probably marker the world stage ’s moral advance . after all , he believed that to be a “ philosopher by himself meant to assume the responsibilities of a moral reformer . ” yet , although morality had always been at the center of his thinking , many of the moral truths we take for granted never materialized . for example , although plato opposed greeks ’ enslavement , he – like any other ancient greece – condoned the enslavement of “ the barbarians ” ( the non-greeks ) . today , on the other hand , even an emphatically non-philosophical person , says , plato “ a media escort ” could easily explain why slavery is mistaken : an individual is a person .
but it is at least as important to address the local-level societal divisions that have emerged as conflict , particularly in violence hubs . here , municipal and international civil-society organizations , along with regional and municipal governments , have an important role to play , and colombia ’s past experience overcoming similar challenges should prove helpful . such an effort must advance in another area : rural development , which is the only economic question being addressed under a peace agreement . that hardly comes as a surprise : after all , the massive inequities that characterizes rural colombia have ceded the farc to the former , with the conflict concentrated in such areas . ( dismantling of narco-trafficking activity where the farc has played may also be deemed economic , given its need to provide alternative opportunities in rural areas ; first and foremost , it is security . )
glattbrug , switzerland – switzerland ’s rising youth unemployment , especially in europe , makes headlines all around the world . roughly 5.5 million europeans below the age of 25 are unemployed , and are children under their age . more than 7.5 million people aged 15 to 24 are “ neets ” – not in terms of jobs , education , or job training . at the same time , youth unemployment rates are above 25 % in the 13 european countries , amounting to about 30 % of gdp in spain , greece , bulgaria , portugal , hungary , italy , portugal , and spain , surpassing 55 % in greece and spain , accounting for 55 % in greece and spain . moreover , more than 30 % of job seekers under 25 have been unemployed for over 12 months , and their chances of job seekers remain low .
foreign producers are blamed for `` unfair '' competition far more easily than domestic producers are . indeed , if domestic trade laws were applied internationally , perhaps a majority of firms within america would be guilty of the dumping laws . yet america 's high court has set the standards so high for american firms to be found guilty of predation that very few cases have been prosecuted domestically . trade negotiators do not discuss to ban this double standard , either . so developing countries worry that trying to introduce `` competition '' in trade negotiations will only make life even harder .
for emerging economies , this would mean relaxing the dollarization of dollarization merely in order to catch an even worse case in a librabraization scenario . should that happen , then libra might have complicated these countries ’ monetary and exchange-rate policies , and helped trigger an era of sluggish growth and financial instability . facebook is betting that libra sets off a taurus market . but libra ’s advantages seem like slippery as slippery as pisces . the libra project is dangerous like leo , and will require government regulation to keep it from turning into cancer .
there is little reason to believe that inclusivity affects the sustainability of growth patterns only in a developing country , though the specific dynamics depend on a variety of factors . for example , rising inequality is less likely to become politically and socially disruptive in a high-growth environment ( think a 5-7 % annual rate ) than in a low – or a no-growth environment in which a subset ’s incomes and opportunities are either stagnant or declining . the latter dynamic now playing out in france , with last month ’s “ yellow vest ” protests . a new fuel tax was the immediate cause of the protests . the added cost was not all that big ( around $ 0.30 per gallon ) , but that fuel price in france was already among the highest in europe ( around $ 7 per gallon , including the existing tax ) .
to divide a people to conquer them is an immoral strategy , one that endured throughout the recorded history . from alexander great to stalin the brutal , variants of that strategy were used to hold nations in thrall to the will of the emperor . we now see this strategy in work once again as president vladimir putin stealthily seeks to restore kremlin supremacy over lands treated as “ lost ” by the ussr when the ussr imploded in 1991 . indeed , in ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s recent election , however , putin has flagrantly exposed the entire world to his neo-imperialist patterns . in the wake of those euphoric mass protests in kyiv , russia ’s president has since said that he may work with whatever sort of government ukraine ’s people choose .
in each case , the active ingredient of the trump doctrine is burden-sharing . skinner interprets that narrowly , focusing on the need for america ’s nato allies to increase their own defense spending . what it does not acknowledge is that america , too , is pushing the rest of the world toward sharing the burden of its unsustainable structural saving deficits . america is running consistently with a fiscal deficit , with total spending ( of which defense comprised 14.8 percentage points at 2017 ) significantly surpassing its income , as well as the current-account deficit . if those twin deficits are running at a trend rate of over 3 % of gdp per annum , net american debt to the rest of the world , currently at over 40 % of gdp , will double in less than 24 years .
consider , for example , how recent innovations are threatening the export-oriented industrialization strategy that has fueled many countries ’ ’ ’ ’ ’ development in recent decades . by tapping plentiful and low-cost labor , developing countries managed to scale up their share of global manufacturing activity , job creation , attracting investment , and , in some cases , spurring a broader industrialization process . but , with firms taking advantage of opportunities to cut costs by shifting production to the developing world , a trade-off was always underway : offshore production meant a limited capacity to react swiftly in shifting consumer demand . now , it is again possible that technology will offer a different choice as well . by investing in “ additive ” manufacturing , ” ” ” ” ” as well as other non-western tools , companies could shift their production sites onto their fintech .
even men of men watching a game at home have gotten other issues in need of dealing with one another . for instance , joyce , a young former workmate , has a husband who is diehard manchester united fan . each season , he breaks at least one meter of furniture at a time when his team is losing , too . like bogle , couches are being stained by couches from the favorite teams . she has transformed her furniture by at least twice since getting married four years ago .
in fact , has any kind of monster so far not seen as a potential conveyor of a revolutionary idea ? the notion that a murderous monster can symbolize a protester or outcast , and thus deserve sympathy , originated with french philosophers gilles delineation and pierre-falix guattari . challenging rené girard ’s explanation for the origins of irrational violence and hate in the rest of – ethnic or religious minorities that demonize and victimized , deleuze , and guattari extended the concept of otherness toward vampire . that set the stage for a paradigmatic shift in understanding homicidal monsters as the next . increasingly , such protagonists have become the focus of academic attention , cultural criticism , and the popular culture itself .
copenhagen – debates about global warming are couched by an increasing desire to stamp out “ unhealthy ” impure ” thinking , to the point of questioning the value of democratic debate . but shutting down debate simply means dismissing reason out of public policy . in march , al gore ’s science adviser and a prominent climate researcher , jim hansen , remarked that when it comes to tackling global warming , the “ democratic process ” is n’t working . indeed , while science has shown that burning fossil-fuel plants is heating the planet , policymakers are reluctant to follow his advice , stopping building coal-fired electricity plants . hansen argues that , “ the first such action that people should take is to usher in a democratic process . ”
according to the inter-parliamentary union ’s inter-parliamentary union ( ipu ) , in which the election forced south korea from 101st to 62nd place globally in terms of the proportion of female mps , well ahead of the 121st-ranked japan . the mps ’ increase has led not only to an increasing number of female cabinet parliamentarians , but also to a wide array of policies and institutional improvements directed at women specifically . and , though south korea has slipped to 80th place in the ipu ’s most recent rankings , backsliding reflects the subsequent growth of other countries ’ female legislators . at the heart of mps ’s rise was the enactment of a quota system that south korea ’s ’s ’s ’s political parties should ensure that 30 % of their applicants are women . campaign-finance laws have been revised to provide additional government funding to parties that meet a quota , slashing gdp for parties that do not .
for bingham , the law must be open and – insofar as it is – intelligible , unambiguous , unambiguous , and predictable . everyone should be governed by law , insulated from the personal discretion of those in power , and legal disputes should be settled without prohibitive charges or inordinate delay . pre-laws should be enforced , in conjunction with the robust protection of fundamental human rights . moreover , state power ought to be reasonably exercised , in good faith , and , for the purposes to which it was vested , with an independent judiciary and court revision of laws ensuring that governments do not transcend limits on its authority . by law , courts and other official adjudicative bodies , such as adjudicative adjudicative processes , should provide just processes .
it is the extreme right that has benefited the majority of right-wing centrists ’ failure . in finland , a “ heretofore ” true finn party has capitalized on resentment around the eurozone bailouts to complete just a close third in april ’s general election . in the netherlands , geert wilders ’ freedom party wields enough power to play kingmaker ; without his support , a minority liberal government would collapse . in france , the national front that finished second in the country ’s 2002 presidential election was revitalized , beneath marine le pen . nor is the backlash confined to the country ’s populist members .
the eu is paying turkey in euros , while seehofer pays orbán by tolerating policies that no german politician should . the fourth factor , of course , is german business interests . german firms are making a lot of money in the so-called visegrád four – – – – – the czech republic , hungary , poland , the netherlands , and slovakia , which together amount to germany ’s largest trade partner . but here , too , the hungarian tail is wagering a german dog . on its own , hungary is germany ’s 14th-largest trade partner , accounting for both exports and imports .
brussels – a new controversy has emerged between the european union and a few of its core trade partners since the eu has decided to include in its co2 emission-control scheme all flight to and out of its own territory , including the transcontinental flight . airlines will be required to obtain their emission-control permits for their flights of ’ ’ co2 emissions . both the eu and the united states are being outraged , and the us is reluctant to go along . in fact , chinese airlines far delayed the command to purchase their european aircraft . ceos of airbus aircraft manufacturer airbus and a prominent european aircraft airlines urged european leaders to step in .
when we in the us government looked carefully at risks to london as the financial center from being outside europe , we concluded that there was no compelling case for it to be damaging . but there were never in doubt that being out of europe altogether was another matter altogether . yes , special arrangements could be negotiated , but individually agreed each had to be negotiated . and , on the record , norway is an important net contributor to the eu budget – the price of its negotiation , despite not being an eu member . i doubt that other european countries would allow britain to operate like some offshore center at the periphery of europe , free from european ’s responsibilities but participating fully in its opportunity .
it has also stressed the rapid pace of epidemiological transitions in middle-income countries and the endurance of communicable , maternal , newborn , or nutritional declines in sub-saharan africa . yet the gbd could do more to inform policy debates and spur action to improve health should it make more detailed data breakdowns . policymakers are accountable , first , and foremost to their constituents whose unique needs must be met . estimates of localized disease burden will be vital to combating afflictions like ebola , controlling the rising toll of non-communicable diseases ( ncds ) , and concluding sustainable maternal and infant health goals in sub-saharan africa . to help decision-makers make more use of their data , the institute for health metrics and assessment , which i lead , produces groundbreaking geospatial maps with groundbreaking resolution levels .
according to a study by goldman sachs , countries like greece , portugal , spain , and spain would have to become 20-30 % cheaper , and german prices would have to rise by as much as 20 % relative to the eurozone average . to be sure , if germany were to exit from the common currency , a road back to competitiveness would be easier for southern countries , because the rump euro would undergo devaluation ; but a crisis countries on the scale of their fundamental problem would remain as long as the other competitive countries remain in the eurozone . spain , for example , would still have to cut its price by 22-24 % , relative to the new euro average . from this perspective , it would not necessarily be possible to avoid painful retrenchment as long as it remained stuck in a monetary union comprising competing countries . the only way that could be avoided would be for italy to exits the euro and devalue its new currencies .
one way to bolster india ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s disaster-response capabilities would be to establish the marine equivalent of our territorial armies , the training select fisherfolk in how search-and-rescue operations can be carried out . such trainings , together with students ’ affinity to their fellow fishermen and their expertise in the brac , would make for an extremely effective buffer zone , be deployed when disaster strikes . another issue that has been overlooked through a focus on urgent , immediate financial relief is the coastal communities ’ long-term economic needs . to be sure , immediate relief is vitally important : ockhi has thoroughly shut down everyday activities in some coastal areas , causing severe economic ( not to mention emotional ) distress for the region ’s poor fishing communities . but perhaps it is time to consider whether it is equitable to condemn these communities to the long-term dependence of fisheries .
ramallah – the united states should stop pressing for a resumption of the palestinian-israeli peace process . doing so might be the best route to peace – a paradox that reflects the massive gulf between a peace process and the peace process that is achieving genuine peace . make no mistake : this is not a call for an arms uprising or an appeal for a violent uprising . peace between the conflicting parties east between the mediterranean and the west of the jordan river can and must be achieved through negotiation . but if a single party cares more about a process than it does about the desirability of peace , something must go wrong .
both the two world wars and the cold war shaped european integration as the peace project , the defense of the west ’s core values , and shared economic prosperity . but the collapse of communism in 1989 and the chance to transcend the continent ’s historic divisions now demanded a redefinition of the european project . the treaty of maastricht ( of 1992 ) and amsterdam ( of 1997 ) created a new organizational architecture for the eu and laid the foundations for political institutions as equals in europe ’s economic powers . the nice treaty ( 2000 ) , after all , was the result of rather poor compromise . declarations by german chancellor angela merkel , whose country assumed the european union ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s rotating presidency by early 2007 , are an unambiguous : a period of reconsideration , endorsed by the european commission in 2005 , has come to an end .
whenever i arrive in moscow , i am struck by its new shops . yet another crucial aspect of the yeltsin era -- its rollicking debates -- has fallen silent . part of the explanation for this has increased official control , part is declining public concern , and part is that the problems of russia nowadays seem less urgent . after the government captured influence over an independent tv network , ntv , and h6 , the russian media became vastly duller . the most recent fad is for officials to prosecute libel newspapers , demanding more than $ 1 million .
true , the united states is not denmark , but switzerland . but it is not wrong to ask what makes the scandinavian welfare economies so prosperous and what americans can learn from them . the short answer is that the scandinavian countries give their people a job that pays a decent living wage in order to sustain healthy , happy lives . one need not be an economist to grasp that a country ’s wealth depends , to a large extent , on the share of its population performing productive work in higher-value jobs . according to oecd countries ’ employment rankings , the top seven oecd countries do have welfare economies .
berkeley – on my desk right now is columnist timothy noah ’s new book the great divergence : america ’s mounting crisis of inequality , and what we can do about it , and milton and rose managing director friedman ’s classical free-choice : a personal statement . think collectively , my overwhelming view is that friedmans will find their task in justifying and advocating small-government libertarianism a lot harder nowadays than they did back in 1979 . back then , friedmans made three powerful factual claims about how the world operates – assertions that seemed true or perhaps arguably true at the time – seem pretty obvious false today . their case for small-government libertarianism rested largely on these claims , now largely crumbled because the world turned away , disagreed with them on how it operates . the first claim was that state macroeconomic distress resulting , not an unstable private market , or , rather , that the form of macroeconomic regulation required to produce economic stability was a straightforward and easy way to achieve .
the g20 now should follow through on this commitment , and establish a clear schedule for ending fossil-fuel subsidies , including full transparency regarding such expenditures from 2017 and a prohibition on exploration and manufacturing subsidies by 2018 . second , the g20 needs to commit to fighting tax avoidance and unraveling its murky system of tax havens and shell companies ( bringing to light earlier this year by the panama papers ) used to pump money out of africa . according to the africa union ’s high-level panel on illicit flows , chaired by former south african president thabo mbeki , africa is losing over $ 50 billion each year from illicit financial outflows . g20 members should reinforce tax-based disclosure requirements , prevent the establishment of shell companies , step up efforts to combat money-laundering , and establish company ownership publicly . already , the g20 and the oecd have outlined measures to counter tax-avoidance methods like base erosion and profit shifting .
three of ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s nuclear power currently operate beyond its design lifetime , with nine others set to reach the end of their supposed lifetime in the coming five years . most immediately , unit two in south ukraine reaches that point in less than three weeks , which means now that an snriu must decide whether to grant that unit a fifth lifetime extension . the snriu will make this critical decision without any key information about the health and environmental risks that the reactor poses to ukraine and its neighbors . though this hardening venes on ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s responsibility , as a signatory to the espoo convention to conduct a cross-border environmental-impact assessment ( not to mention missing out an opportunity to consider the potential alternatives to continued the reactor ’s operations ) , there is no similar analysis . just last month , campaign groups in neighboring ukraine were writing to their representatives in the ebrd demanding that the bank suspend its support for revitalizing ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s nuclear-power plant until cross-border assessment takes place .
curitiba , brazil , rolled out a new urban model for food production . and oslo created a climate budget to guide financial decision-making . at the business level , more than 700 firms with total market capitalization over $ 16 trillion had made far-reaching climate pledges , according to the likes of us , mean entrepreneurial coalition . and , with nearly $ 30 trillion in assets under management , 289 investors signed on to climate action , a five-year initiative to engage the world ’s largest corporate greenhouse-gas emitters to improve climate-change governance , curb emissions , and boost climate-related financial disclosures . as a result , the global green-bond issuance could reach more than $ 300 billion this year .
but this was no recipe for restoring stability and growth . to succeed in restoring a robust growth path , east asia must deliver justice for more than individual human-rights abuses . as proponents of asian values argued , every human rights – civic and political as well as social and economic – must step up . if not , advocates of democracy and human rights face a backlash . already , some indonesians are nostalgic for suharto ’s new order .
the virtuous chinese , on the other hand , who rescued a substantial share of their incomes , castigated western economists for their failure to see that their obligation to humanity had been on a spending spree . a key theoretical point in a shift to an debt-fueled economy was the redefinition of uncertainty as risk . by definition , this was the primary achievement of the history of mathematical economics . whereas guarding against uncertainty was traditionally a moral issue , hedging against risk is a purely technical matter . the major uncertainties in life – one ’s immortal soul – nudges one toward morals .
having ruled through a grand coalition with either the anti-establishment five star movement or former prime minister silvio berlusconi ’s center-right party , bersani will depend on senators ’ willingness to endorse specific measures . but there is a sense of this approach , both in a sense – and in a sense of correct – this approach . as a result , italy and the european union are headed toward the kind of political and financial turmoil that followed greece ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s general election last may , when a similar inability to produce a parliamentary majority enforced by the following month . a crisis in cyprus , with the threat of a country ’s banking system and forcing cyprus out of the euro , could force that situation to become even more difficult to manage . italy and greece have much in common , beginning with their institutional malaise .
in the 1980s , for example , america entered into such agreements with a overseas car , a microchip , a us steel tariffs , his lumber , and machine-instrument manufacturers . some of the conditions that were imposed then were barred by the world trade organization ever since . yet , just a couple of years ago , america ’s auto industry pressed for a requirement in a trade deal that would have granted it the minimum market share of american exports to south korea . trump will most likely scrap these tools further . if trump wants to impede us production from moving overseas and encouraging us investment away from abroad , perhaps the us will soon see firms pushing to agree “ voluntarily , ” outsourcing restrictions and localization requirements .
and the us is larger than in any other large country , by far . the paris accord does not victimize america ; on the contrary , the us has a world-beating responsibility to get its own house in order . according to world resource data , america accounted for astounding 26.6 % of global greenhouse-gas emissions from 1850 to 2013 . america ’s ’s population today is only 4.4 % of the world ’s gdp . in short , it is america , where per capita emissions have always been about several times the size of the world average , that owes world climate justice , not the other way round .
and that volatility is another reason why a casino metaphor applies : china ’s stock-market can rises or fall by double-digit digits , without triggering a wider economic crash , at least so far . china ’s gdp growth , for example , was discontinued ( in fact the us economy growing at almost 10 % ) when the stock market lost half of its value from 2001 to 2005 ; or , for that matter , when the market then recovered ( only to fall again after the 2008 financial crisis ) . since then , china ’s ’s ’s stock market has become the global laggard – that is , until the last year , when it became the world ’s best performing economy , rising at over 150 % . and yet the roller-coaster pattern continues : the 8.5 % plunge came when the market re-opened on the monday , which followed its largest fourfold since 2008 . that rise was preceded by a loss of almost a third of the market ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s value , from mid-june until early july .
the conversation , again , has turned , yet again , to macron . i have tried to explain the fact that his trademark , en même temps ( similarly ) – who tends to be heard as an expression of the american-style pragmatism – may instead form one of the most visible footprint of his doctrinal closeness to the french protestant philosopher paul ricœur . far from reflecting on an ambiguous choice , at the same moment , “ someone suspended ” is someone ’s credo of fear and shudders ahead of the unsolvable , terrifying enigma – physical and spiritual , mortal , and resurrected – of the tormented body of christ . nevertheless , very soon , we arrive at the question of anti-semitism in america . on the one side are to be found in the late horde of nativists , white supremacists , and neo-confederate , who descended on charlottesville , virginia , in august to break up some black , jewish heads .
santiago – now that the populists ’ upcoming rise to power in the west , the clash over the intellectual ownership of their approaches is brewing . writers such as jan judis argue that nineteenth-century american political populism has invented , with its anti-elitist stance and inflammatory rhetoric . argentines , who have given the world über-populist juan domingo perón or brazilians who brought the us getúlio vargas , might beg to differ . yet there can be no disagreement , which latin americans have had their longest , well-meaning practitioners of economic populism . throughout the twentieth century , perón and “ vargas ” plus alan garcía in perú ( at least during his first term ) , daniel ortega in nicaragua and salvador allende in chile and a number of others engaged in commercial protectionism , has ran large budget deficits that overwhelm their economies , compounded their inflation rate , and eventually endured currency crises .
what is remarkable is that it has already lasted so long . but it marked a recent statement to the us congress by secretary of defense robert gates , which has been especially shocking for israelis . he has expressed an understanding of iran ’s own desire to obtain nuclear weapons , because , as trump put it , “ iranians are surrounded by nuclear powers like pakistan , nato , russia , and israel . ” israel is bound to fight back against this emerging new american doctrine , which unites it with iran or even with india and pakistan for just that matter . in political contexts , the israelis will argue , such a decision .
abidjan – on december 2 , côte d’ivoire ’s independent electoral commission ( cei am ) declared opposition leader , alassane ouattara , the winner of the country ’s november presidential election , with a 54.1 % popular vote . the incumbent , laurent gbagbo , won 45.9 % . the united states , the european union , canada , and the united nations secretary general , all congratulated ouattara , calling upon gbagbo to respect the popular will . one day after the result was announced , gbagbo ’s close ally , paul yao n’dre , annulled the results of the north ’s seven departments , proclaiming gbagbo the victory with 51 % of the vote . the decision , reached in less than 24 hours , left many ivorians flabbergasted .
compliance to date , unlike last year , when last year ’s rush home for lunar new year ’s celebration was being hampered by xiak storms this year , a million migrant laborers returned to their rural households ’ families . many will stay where the global economic contraction hit china hard , costing them their jobs . littered with a host of extremely politically sensitive anniversaries , 2009 could prove even more dramatic and unpredictable than in 2008 . fast approaching is not only the march anniversary of last year ’s disturbances in tibet , but also the 50th anniversary of tibetan unrest in the 1959 that led to the dalai lama ’s exile and his supporters . since the riots last spring , china ’s government has taken many proactive measures , even accepting the “ serf liberation ” day , in order to defend its track record in tibet of the last 50 years , while continuing to speak out with the dalai lama as representatives .
dealing the deficit required tough choices from reforming the welfare system and increasing the government ’s pension age to bring public-sector wages under control . but i always believed that no country could make itself richer by writing checks on its own . so we need responsible choices in order to ensure that we can live within our means , and that is precisely what i am determined to deliver . a government that lives within its means is a precondition for securing an economy for the long term but is insufficient . success also requires taking bold moves to tear down trade barriers and opening up the economy to investment from a fast-growing country like china and india .
indeed , the recent booms in some parts of the developing world are showing precisely that . second , while pushing the technology frontier is a critical component in industrial countries ’ growth , what matters for developing countries are reshaping their manufacturing and export structures , particularly by shifting resources toward higher-productivity activities . the key to achieving this is its transformation capacity through generating new activities , strengthening intra-country economic linkages , and the creation of new domestic technological capabilities . building industrial and modern service industries is critical to successful diversification . conversely , de-industrialization and the concentration of growth in informal service activities is a proven recipe for failure , as demonstrated by the bleak experience of much of the developing world in recent decades .
today , few know firsthand where the term “ globalization ” originated in it . the oxford english dictionary gives as the earliest benchmark of its current usage , as of 1972 . the word had been applied earlier , but in a rather different sense . it had a diplomatic point , conveying a counter-linkage among disparate policy areas ( such as when negotiating on financial and security matters simultaneously ) . the oed etymology ignores the non-english-speaking origins of a term can be established in continental europe ’s inventive linguistic terminology .
without his determination , backed by a highly credible show of military force and skillful diplomacy , iraq ’s military programs would not currently face increasing scrutiny than they apply to any other would-be proliferator in afghanistan today . achieving this extraordinary feat of warfare has been vital to achieve that extraordinary feat . but , precisely because it is so extraordinary to see how to implement these threats by beginning a war can make any sense at all . if at inspections in iraq were to be exposed as having lied and cheated that would confirm the efficacy of inspections , scarcely the justification for military reprisals . the best “ serious consequences ” to which the un security council warned should iraq fail to abide by its commitments would be an even sharper effort to destroy its illicit weapons through a continuous inspections regime of the country ’s offensive military capabilities : inspectors , not invaders .
though their vision of “ information security by ” could legitimize authoritarian governments under authoritarian rule and thus unacceptable to democratic governments , identifying and targeting behaviors that are illegal in the first place might be possible . limiting all such interlinking would be impossible to achieve , but one could start with cybercrime and cyber terrorism . the major states would have an interest in curbing damage by agreeing to collaborate on forensics and checks . to be sure , the historical analogies are inimical to them . obviously , cyber technology is very different from nuclear technologies , especially because non-governmental actors can exploit it much more easily .
most of the debt is owed within a state-run system , say , by state-owned enterprises ( soes ) to state-owned banks , and the government could simply write off the bad debts and recapitalize the banks , financing operations with either borrowed or printed money . alternatively , the banks could get perpetually roll over the existing debt , forever extending new credit to repay old debt . to be sure , this would produce a squandered investment . indeed , with bank of banks failing to impose hard budget constraints on financially unsustainable firms , and with a planning system incapable of imposing alternative effective discipline , china is already awash in apartment blocks in third-tier cities that will never have been occupied , with massive overcapacity in heavy industry . but , as some chinese policymakers react , all of the growth processes involve waste : nineteenth-century railroad booms in britain and america has generated massive overcapacity and investor losses even as they spurred economic transformation .
furthermore , namibia ’s ’s ’s government has wisely understood that abundant natural resources could easily become a curse , enriching a few at the expense of the many . the authorities know that unless namibia ’s natural wealth invests in infrastructure and its people ’s ’s ’s productive capacities , resource depletion will leave the country ’s poorer , not richer . they also know that it would be irresponsible not to garner for a namibians the country ’s resource , as well as to rethinking the investment laws and revise the mining contracts in order to ensure that it is the matter . transparency is critical to this process , thereby ensuring that the government ’s robust endorsement of press freedom is so essential . as president hage geingob is repeatedly told by the us , the news goes , it ’s time for them that it ’s not like .
it is not unimaginable that the type of collaboration might spread to include other neighbors around the levant . the good news is that cyprus ’s newly elected president , nicos anastasiades , may prove open to such an agenda . naturally speaking , much will depend on how it fares politically in the current tumult surrounding the bailout package . anastasiades , a member of the pro-european dimokós sinayermós ( the democratic rally ) party , won 57 % of the popular vote in a platform that emphasizes economic recovery , and this will naturally turn out to be its top priority . in addition , a cautious look beyond the current turbulence and islamist history provides grounds for optimism .
yet the head of the eu is calling on europe ’s dynamic public face . the commission ’s own domestic culture of polish cautiousness and red tape is a constraint , which nobody in brussels is much likes to talk about . it is not the structure that is conducive to political coups de theâtre , with much of the commission ’s work being the relentless grind to eu regulation and re-regulation . but the bottom line is that , at a time when everyone is asked , “ what is europe doing ? ” the ” commission ’s reactions have seemed inadequate . for reasons that are now obscure , there is an unwritten rule by which commission presidents must be attracted from past ranks or current prime ministers .
but it is not at all clear that the uk provides such security , particularly now that it is on a path to leave the eu ’s single market and customs union . independence would enable scotland to develop policies that align itself more closely with other successful economies , not least by retaining eu membership . as scotland confronts brexit ’s strategic challenges , it will also have an opportunity to develop policies that are better suited to it . britain has chosen to leave the eu because it has an outsized view of itself . but it will soon need to follow a small-country model like that of switzerland or norway .
second , with china as an influential driver of global demand ( both directly and indirectly through specific network effects ) , the world ’s second-largest economy outlook has disproportionately large effects on projections for global corporate income . and , with china ’s over-leveraged domestic credit boom and the shadow-banking system capturing credit growth , many companies are becoming anxious . third , while firms recognize that innovation creates a key comparative advantage in today ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s global economy , they are simultaneously humbled by its increasingly winner-take-all nature . successful innovation today has much less to do with funding , and far more to find a “ killer app ” . as a result , many firms , much less convinced that “ normal ” yields large payoffs , end up investing less globally than they did in the past .
stockholm – it has been just one year since the failed coup in turkey ’s favor , and questions about the country ’s future still abound . last year ’s attempted coup seemed anything if not dramatic . mutinous the f-16 fighter bombed the turkish parliament , with 249 people losing their lives . yet the putschists failed to dismember president recep tayyip erdoğan , who then mobilized his own supporters and sealed the coup ’s destiny . had the coup not been stymied within the first 48 hours , turkey probably would have fallen into a ruinous and violent civil war , the consequences of which extended well beyond its borders .
seoul – once again , tensions are mounting across asia over north korea ’s missile program . unlike its previous “ surprise ” missile launches , north korea ’s administration this time announced international agencies to deliver a “ satellite ” sometime between april 4 and 8 . the question for the world now , then , is not whether a north korean regime will launch its missile , but what will happen an afterward . the united states , japan , and south korea have already publicly denounced the launch as the provocative joint action act and the violation of united nations security council resolution 1718 , adopted in october 2006 , five days after north korea conducted a nuclear-weapons test . yet , instead of hot rhetoric , what is needed now is cool-headed assessments of the us military concerning the missile launch .
and it just held the first round of a us presidential election that meets europe ’s high standards of freedom and fairness . the eu deserves some credit for this outcome . it has now been ten years since the eu launched its eastern partnership , which established a more credible framework for engagement with the bloc with armenia , azerbaijan , belarus , georgia , moldova , and ukraine . that initiative , worth recalling , was partly a reaction to georgia ’s invasion of georgia the preceding summer , when the kremlin attempted to dismember countries through recognition of south ossetia and abkhazia as independent states . in the event , not even russia ’s ’s closest ally would agree to recognize those occupied territories or re-legitimize its invasions .
a child ’s policy of this kind is no longer enough . without a renewed vision for europe and an effective approach to crisis resolution , the continent ’s new ( and old ) nationalists will continue to wield strength , compromising the entire project of peaceful integration based on the rule of law . the brexit referendum will point the way , both for the uk and the eu . it will follow either from the sighs of forbearance ( as i hope ) , or from the cataclysm that the eu will have to its core , bringing calamity to the uk . but , however determined , europe ’s numerous crises need to be addressed .
chicago – now that the rubbish dust has settled over the selection of the international monetary fund ’s managing director , the imf can get back on its core crisis-management business . christine lagarde , a competent , well-considered technocrat , will her own three big challenges . the first , and perhaps the simplest , challenge is to reestablish the imf ’s public image . whereas the nefarious case against dominique strauss-kahn on sexual-assault charges now seems acutely uncertain , the ensuing republican focus on the imf suggests an uncontrolled international bureaucracy with unlimited bump accounts , ruled by men with little sense of restraint . fortunately , the plain story is all the more prosaic .
the elevation of the monetary base , however , is only temporary ; when the bonds are rethought , they reverts to the eventual level . that eventual need to shrink the monetary base is the implicit assertion by the central bank of central-bank assets ; as a result , increasing is rightly seen as a liability in its own balance sheet . under a debt-financed fiscal stimulus , however , the central bank never has to reverse the surge in the monetary base . because holders of distributed money have no say in a central bank , the increased monetary base should be viewed not as an obligation , but as an increase in the central bank ’s net worth . in other words , helicopter money is not interest-free lending ; it is gift .
her party charged serra ’s of orchestrating the attack , and in revenge on her party – the liberal front – threw its support behind ciro gomes . with the sarney out , lula is reunifying the supreme leader in the polls , reaching 43 % at mid-may . then , in early july , rosneft soared to 28 % , within striking distance from lula , who had declined to 33 % . gomes used the tv time available for his three-party labor alliance in late june to huge effect , but most credit for his second wife ’s polls , an popular actress patricia pillar , recovering from breast cancer . brazil ’s severe summer market jitters , during which the country ’s risk-index abruptly topped nigeria and short credits for international trade , began to change the face of the election .
claremont , california – though a rapid de-escalation in violence in hong kong appears terrifying enough , things might be about to get far worse . the recently concluded fourth plenum of the 19th central committee of the chinese communist party ( cpc ) indicates that chinese president xi jinping intends to tighten his grip on a former british colony at all costs . he should be prepared to sever the power of a formidable bill . following his targeted killing of iran 's second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote still more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
in part , such flaws reflect enduring weaknesses in governance , notwithstanding important political reforms , notably the 2011 constitutional amendment , which has shifted powers from a monarch to a parliamentary assembly , and legal reform , such as aligning legislation with european and international human-rights standards , as well as progress on family law and gender equality . complicating matters further , regional tensions – including escalating political instability in algeria and the thorny issue of the western sahara – have hampered integration into the maghreb , an absolute necessity for unlocking prosperity in north africa . and yet , despite the challenges it faces , morocco has demonstrated strong leadership on some of today ’s most urgent issues . it has been a powerful champion of anti-extremism initiatives , including a responsible religious college education , well beyond its own borders . it became a global green-energy leader , committed in 2015 to increasing its share of renewables generation to 52 % by 2030 – one of the world ’s most ambitious targets .
to take advantage of eurobonds as a mechanism to wipe out a large sovereign-debt overhang jeopardizes the longer-term objective of abating moral hazard : offering absolution precisely to the 60 % - france , where countries will get the most trouble defied temptation . after all , there is very little reason to believe that a fiscal compact or a proposed “ debt brake ” will succeed where the maastricht criteria and the sgp have failed . at the same time , rules need a credible mechanism for enforcement . misplaced hope that the problem of enforcement can be solved by enshrining a fiscal compact in the member states ’ constitutions might stem from a profound misunderstanding of america ’s system . to be sure , america ’s federal government never bailed out a nation , 49 of which ( all but vermont ) have laws or constitutional provisions that rein in deficit spending .
but , because the organization for trade-related aspects of intellectual-property rights ( trips ) entered into force in 1995 , all of the world trade organization ’s member countries had to recognize one another another ’s pharmaceutical patents . for india ’s drug makers , production generic versions of patented drugs would require license , and such licenses are rarely if they were ever granted . nonetheless , following amendments to indian patents act , india still has some safeguards to avoid the kind of excesses that major us pharmaceutical companies routinely acquire in american and european countries . india , for example , abides by stricter definitions of what constitutes an invention that avoids the evergreening ’s life by accepting secondary patents for marginal drug purposes . according to section 3 ( d ) of india ’s patents act , “ nothing if an act of any new form of property or … uses for previously known substance or profit from a notorious process of ” is unfit unless it “ results ” in a new product , or employs at least one new reactant .
the foreign actors that criticize brazil ’s exploitation of its rainforest , from european governments to pope francis to advocate biodiversity only to allow it to benefit in the future . with migrates from brazil , he recently declared that brazil is like a virgin that every foreign pervert wants . but bolsonaro does not want to sustain the amazon chaste ; he simply wants himself to be among those exploiting it . his promotion of rain forests and his attacks on environmental regulation led , for example , to the spread of agribusiness , especially cattle ranching and illegal logging . according to figures from brazil ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s national space survey institute for space research , deforestation by brazil ’s just over 88 % year on year .
kim appears perfectly willing to subject a north korean people to privations by each other to remain in power . to be sure , there are notable differences between north korea and iran . most obvious , iran ’s nuclear program has not taken flight , whereas north korea – which , unlike iran , has withdrew from the non-proliferation treaty – already has an estimated 60 nuclear warheads and appears to generate progress toward a nuclear-tipped intercontinental ballistic missile , capable of reaching america ’s own land . in short : an all-out military conflict with north korea would impose immediate global risks . trump may have started to recognize that mounting us pressure on north korea does not preclude sitting down to negotiate with kim .
a third argument against imposing anti-manipulation provisions under the tpp is that they would imperil america ’s ability to implement monetary stimulus . but this reflects a profound misunderstanding . a well-designed currency chapter in the tpp would do nothing to impede american monetary independence . conventional monetary policies operates through an extension of short-term interest rates , which include the central bank ’s purchases and sale of short-term us government debt . no intervention in a foreign-exchange market , buy , and sell a foreign currency .
thus , it is ’s ’s amusing to boast that one ’s own brand of knowledge , be it that experimental physics , math or cosmology is futile . but a joke would n’t work if another widespread , shared assumption that a scientific learning has a merit independent from possible uses . after all , it would n’t really be entertained if a charity dedicated to famine relief celebrated its own ineffectiveness ; the practical value in that case it would be paramount , because it would be the only realistic justification for a charity to exist . so , despite potential usefulness , there is the reason for governments to dedicate so much money to academic research , humans actually expect more from science than it does . on this view , there is also a fairly different view of science : understanding the natural world .
the position of the united states has not helped , either . just last year , american president barack obama ’s administration requested that $ 1.8 trillion in emergency funding be directed to help prepare for and respond to the zika threat . but anti-abortion politics has intervened , because republican lawmakers , leading a congressional hearing on the zika outbreak , has made the funding conditional on anti-abortion policies in the recipient countries . the challenges with the dominant access to the zika virus have included , which saddles feckless women with overly accountability , while giving them too little power , are not lost on everyone . last year , the un refugee agency and the world health organization emphasize the need to put human rights at the center of the response to the zika outbreak .
if they become consolidated democracies , as one would hoped , would-be entrepreneurs could stop worrying so much about official corruption . and start-up loans from europe would make home much easier . such an approach needs to learn both the european public and those in tunisia , egypt and other arab countries . it would reverse a pattern in which europe relies on repressive regimes to provide italy with oil and gas , and to patrol its borders against migrants . at long last , these countries ’ demographic wealth would harness to meet their developmental needs .
of course , what is advantageous for tomorrow may be problematic today : europe and japan will confront severe problems when their demographic pyramids tilt toward their older , eliminating the temporary demographic advantage that they share today . but , again , this is not what ails their economies . edmund phelps of columbia university asserts that these slow-growing countries lack the “ dynamism ” that they defines as a combination of their entrepreneurial spirit and their funding institutions to channel it . both the spirit and the needed financial institutions must be present to allow “ creative destruction ” – a force that joseph schumpeter argued that sixty years were the engine of capitalist prosperity – to emerge . but is this an accurate characterization of the slow-growing countries ?
in argentina , one bumbling president has succeeds the next . institutions are torn apart , property rights are being challenged , and a accidental and ever more corrupt redistribution effort is under way . peru and venezuela hardly look better ; brazil could follow the same course soon . lula ignacia silva ’s popularity , as well as his team – who lead opinion polls in brazil ’s presidential election in recent years – serves as a warning that a large proportion of the latin american public is poised to reject traditional governments . lula and his party are so far outside of the economic mainstream and policy mainstream that capital has already started to flee – despite the election being months away .
by 2040 , in the iea ’s more optimistic scenario , solar power in sub-saharan africa will produce 14kwh annually for a person below what is needed to keep one two-watt led from a permanently lit . likewise , the iea estimates that , on average , renewable power will still be costing more , not at all levels , from oil , gas , nuclear , coal , or hydro , even with a carbon tax . few in the rich world would switch to energy-intensive renewables , and almost certainly nobody cuts their connection to the mostly fossil-fuel-energy-intensive grid , providing a stable power on cloudy days and night ( another form of subsidies ) . yet , apparently , western activists believe that the world ’s ’s worst-off should be satisfied with poor and sophisticated electricity supplies . in its recent africa energy outlook , the iea estimates that africa ’s energy consumption will grow at 80 % by 2040 ; but , with the continent almost doubling , less energy per person .
much talk abounds about the property crash of china ’s residential property market in late 2011 and the chain-reaction of defaults on underground interbank credit networks and local-government financing platforms . talk shifted to the dangers of a resurgent housing bubble and a collapsing shadow-banking system that consists mainly of wealth-management firms and trust companies . indeed , according to market sources , aggregate assets that are controlled by the shadow banking system have grown exponentially since 2009 , totaling ¥ 14 trillion ( or third of the gdp ) in the third quarter of 2012 . with growth relatively sluggish , corporate profitability upon which the returns from the shadow-banking system ’s shadow pools are based , is low and falling . where , then , will the high returns to the shadow-banking system come from ?
european industries are afflicted by a similar problem . the eu ’s refining and petrochemical industry is supplying the eu with a large share of its fuel , along with a massive source of tax revenue . the downstream sector , together with fuel distribution , is contributing an aggregate of around € 240 billion ( $ 240 billion ) annually to the treasury ’s coffers . by any reckoning , this is an important industry that should n’t suffer from over-regulation . but , while industries are facing the threat of bloated gas prices from around the world , its worries closer in home are the eu ’s mass of abundance and domestic energy regulations .
the answer , it seems , is that its centrist chancellor , angela merkel , has pushed back against trump . still , draining her poison of europe will require much more than scolding america , and praying for trump ’s early departure . in reality , some eu leaders ’ approach to issues like immigration threatens to create systemic challenges that will endure long after trump has returned to the life of the golf courses and the bankruptcy of the paris committee . sensible european leaders may well be forgiven for placing the uk on the path politely , in order to focus their attention on threats to its own long-term cohesion and basic values . the eu has always prided itself on being a community of values that protects minorities , and has welcomed the poor and downtrodden .
acknowledging such thoroughgoing fallibility may seem paralyzing , and current political sentiment certainly seems to reflect this . but recognizing fallibility may actually carry empowering , because it implies the possibility of improving both economics and politics . if the world becomes too complex and unpredictable for either markets or governments ’ pursuit of their social goals , then a new system of checks and balances needs to be designed in a way that can redress political incentives , and vice versa . if the world is to be characterized by ambiguity and unpredictability , then pre-crisis economic theories – rational expectations , efficient markets , and money neutrality – must be revised away . moreover , policymakers must rethink much of the ideological super-structure erected on market-based fundamentalist assumptions .
similarly , it would be painful but not impossible to ease the incentives , created by nearly every country ’s tax regimes for corporate leverage . at the same time , governments must work to minimize existing debt , as well as poor global demand to which it contributes . it simply is not practicable for even the most highly leveraged governments to grow their way out of debt . nor can austerity go alone , because it would require countries to make such large fiscal adjustments – at 5 % of gdp , in spain ’s case , that citizens would resist , as the greeks did . a more effective approach would employ a broader set of tools , including debt restructuring .
and others are even more tangible , like giving away personal data in exchange for access to services . third , inequitable pay and incentive structures are bad for business . much has been written about the extraordinary bonuses paid to investment bankers during the height of the financial crisis . but silicon valley ’s ceos are no dubin hoods , either . tech entrepreneurs may have said they want to change the world , but many are intoxicated with an idea that the world would be better at selling their businesses to the top bidder .
for europeans , this is a necessary principle . moreover , it never wavered in critical questions of legal and practical equality for women , or expressing his dismay at the rising number of niqabs and hijabs now seen in the streets of london , which stop people , comments that he faced . likewise , khan ’s ’s ’s ’s position in favor of gays has won him a fatwa for apostasy from the fearsome chief imam of a bradford mosque . one might argue that no less could have been forthcoming from a labour party with a bright future in churchill ’s land . but one still has to follow , acknowledging that khan did not yielded to these issues in favor of facile communitarianism common on the channel .
in europe , regulatory changes like a second-payment directive ( psd2 ) directive have been crucial in opening up the banking system , and regulators like the united kingdom ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s financial conduct authority have for some time ran regulators to smooth the way for new entrants , by helping them to unmeet standards . psd2 , often described as “ open banking , ” requires banks to offer their customer data to non-bank providers of payments and account for information services . aggregators may then present a customer with an integrated view of their finances and offers add-on services . perhaps the time to assess financial-stability risks from the open banking sector has been in consultation years before the directive passed . even now , the list of contributors to the fsb ’s work shows that both the european commission and key regulators in europe and north america were out .
some ideas turn out to be even worse : they get a castrating themselves , because they interpret the world in a form that emphasizes secondary issues – say , the availability of raw material – and blinders societies to the ever more promising opportunities that may lie elsewhere . consider finland , a nordic country that has lined up to its small population . a classical economist would argue that , given this , a country should be exporting timber that finland has done . by contrast , one of the traditional development economist after another would argue that it should not export timber ; instead , it should add value by turning timber into paper or furniture , something that finland , too , is doing . but all wood-related goods represent barely 20 % of finland ’s gdp .
we need to move to around 50 grams of kilowatt-hour by 2050 , rather than the 500 grams per kilowatt-hour . we need faster access to zero-emission vehicles , as opposed to more efficient gas-burning vehicles , especially given that up on the number of vehicles worldwide could easily double by mid-century . deep decarbonization requires not natural gas and fuel-efficient vehicles , but zero-carbon electricity and electric vehicles charged by a zero-carbon electricity grid . this more profound transformation , unlike today ’s low-hanging fruit eyed by many policymakers , offers the only path to climate safety ( that is , staying below 2ºc limit ) . by pursuing co2 over gas-fired electricity from wind or more fuel-burning vehicles , we risk falling into a high-carbon trap .
rather than becoming agents of change , they often inhibit change . ( indeed , the large economic debate in south korea today concerns whether the chaebols are stifling innovation by impeding start-up competitors . ) the productive transformation that developing countries need is far easier to achieve with backing , rather than obstruction , of their own conglomerates . but ensuring such support will require policies that nudge ( or even desultory ) conglomerates toward export-led industries that can grow beyond their control , domestically oriented industries , which will encourage the discipline they face as they dominate local markets . to succeed , conglomerates need supportive of managerial and acceptance .
the working group could be created to try to forge a common narrative . the negotiation would also have to provide cover for contemporary issues , including the tour d’horizon of current hotspots . so what is iran doing in yemen , lebanon , iraq , and , above all , syria ? how is it to define its own interests in such countries ? does it really view itself , with many sunni arabs who assert , as the protector of the shia arabs ?
domestically , china will be the first country to follow from its sheer size and required gdp growth , forced to pursue a “ green ” economy . alternatively , china would move quickly to achieve its “ limits on ” growth , planned with catastrophic environmental , and , consequently , policy repercussions . because china will become the most important market in the future , it will be decisive in determining not just what the us is producing and consuming , but how . consider a shift from a traditional automobile to a electric transportation policy . despite european illusions of late , this will be decided in china , not in the west .
first , the ecb ’s renewed bond purchases must make explicit the intent of lowering sovereign interest rates to sustainable levels that are at least 200 basis points below their july averages . a high-level german diplomat is reportedly having dismissed spain as a ’s 6.5-7 % interest rate recently , on the point that spain had borrowed at almost the same rate in the 1990 ’s . but that statement oddly ignored spain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s higher forward inflation , thereby confounding real and nominal rates and spurring faster gdp growth . for the countries following up on recently agreed reform programs , the ecb should commit itself to making interest rates moving toward levels that are compatible with projected rates of inflation and growth , by announcing how much longer ( say , nine months ) this will continue . a sporadic program without such declared goals is unlikely to work , and might even be counterproductive , because private investors might well want an even higher rate of returns , because a growing ecb member would be seen as senior , augmenting its risk .
but that rule succumbed rather quickly to forced money-credit shocks , although friedman ’s broad argument that a credible commitment to low inflation requires favoring rules over discretionary powers remains very influential . inflation targeting was the best known as the rule dictating central banks ’ decision to establish , trying the best way to attain – a goal range for an annual rate of changing the consumer-price index ( cpi ) . close cousins have included targeting pricing in the eu ’s core inflation rate , as well as targeting of core inflation ( the cpi minus volatile food and energy price ) . there have also been proponents of a flexible , inflation-targeting regime holding some of the weight on driving real gdp growth in the short run , so long as a clear longer-term cpi target emerged . but some felt that the defining definition had lost its relevance too far .
firms in the advanced economies today are cutting job losses , owing to deficient demand , resulting in excess capacity and uncertainty about future demand . but cutting employment weakens the final demand , either because it depresses labor incomes and increases inequality . because a rigid labor cost of labor is someone else ’s labor income and demands , what is individually rational for one solid is a destructive in the aggregate . as a result , there is not enough growth in free markets . in america , for example , labor costs have been sharply reducing labor ’s share of gdp .
nor do import tariffs help those left unemployed by blockbuster video failure , borders books , compusa , circuit towns , payless , or virgin megastores . meanwhile , employment at amazon itself has grown at an average rate of 47 % over the last year , to 341,000 . yet , with amazon employment concentrated in california , texas , and washington , the geography of those jobs differs very differently from the replacement rate . as with the rapid displacement of american manufacturing jobs , taa is no solution for this type of ailment . after all , whereas taa targets individuals directly impacted by foreign competition , much of the contest now facing local economies does not come from abroad , and many job losses are not in industries directly affected outside of competition but in the surrounding economy .
yanukovych stands for a truly oligarchic state of sort that putin has defeated at home , accusing yushchenko of selling ukrainian firms to russia ’s corporations . president putin ’s cronies are probably best explained by his contempt for democracy . moreover , if ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s president becomes an international pariah , he can veer only for russia , as is the case with president aleksandr lukashenko in belarus . after that spectacular russian failure , however , putin ’s “ managed ” democracy brash putin looks anachronistic , and faces the threat of a true democracy in his neighbor propagate to russia . for the first time ever , ukrainians were throwing a little-known complex line at russia ’s overboard .
to be sure , farming development can have serious economy-wide pitfalls that must be navigated carefully . for example , as technology-driven productivity gains diminish the number of farm workers , strategies to boost employment in other parts of the value chain , and to manage migration into towns becomes even more basic . with africa ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s rural population already largely underemployed , it ’s no time to waste in implementing such strategies . luckily , africa ’s large population of an increasingly well-educated young population , overwhelmingly uninterested in the backward work of subsistence farming , is well-placed to fill the higher-value-added jobs that exist across and outside of the agriculture sector . another potential pitfall of agricultural development is the environmental damage they need , including land degradation , local land nutrient mining , access to water and water pollution .
this almost certainly will not do so . for many of the deal ’s critics , particularly those in the environment movement , those compromises have made the lima deal excessively “ excessively “ a bottom-up ” brexit deal . countries have had too little latitude to make whatever pledges they would like , relatively unconstrained by a shared set of “ top-down ” rules by the paris accord . such critics worry that doing so will make it harder to persuade countries to cut their emissions further once they become apparent that their collective efforts will not be sufficient , and may even permit some countries to engage in irregular accounting methods . but this overlooks the lima deal ’s greatest accomplishment : it ends a longstanding division of the world into only two species , both developed and developing .
her refusal to hit her face is probably the main reason for continuing lead in various opinion polls . nevertheless , recent opinion polls consistently indicate that an overwhelming majority of voters mistrust the incumbent cabinet and the ruling party . indeed , ahn cheol-soo , a successful entrepreneur at the seoul national college , and a major backer of the city ’s new mayor , has now rocked south korean politics by plunging wide hints that he might turn into a presidential candidate . ahn has already become a lightning rod for every country ’s anti-park and anti-president lee myun-bak forces , attracting young people just as he does well . ahn ’s most obvious merits are his personal history in overcoming deep challenges and his modest activism .
dhaka – we humans do n’t just share the planet with a host of other species , including plant , animal husbandry , and even microbes ; we also depend on it for our survival . is it possible to determine the economic value of conserving the natural world ? some people will balk at the idea of putting a price tag on biodiversity , viewing its protection as an obvious imperative . but they would undoubtedly agree , too , that both prevent human deaths and suffering , while providing food , water , and education to everyone is vitally important . the reality is that there simply are insufficient resources to do everything .
widespread infrastructure gaps persist in many emerging and developing countries in recent years , notably in power and transportation . and , elsewhere in the region , india ’s small asia-pacific islands are of particular importance , owing to increased vulnerability to climate-related effects . this shifting landscape invites bold action on several fronts . while the reaction will certainly have to be tailored to individual countries ’ particular circumstances , some recommendations may prove to be helpful for most countries : · · because inflation remains low across much of the region , monetary policy should remain supportive of stemming downside growth .
it wants to remain asia ’s sole country with a permanent seat – an attitude that places it at odds with india . if the brics countries do to jell as a pressure group in international relations , they need to agree on what they believe are attainable political and economic goals . for example , they are broadly united in their frustrations with the us , but out of their proposed reaction to the dollar ’s status as the world ’s reserve currency . indeed , the most important bilateral relationship with each brics country has been with the united states . the brics concept represents , first and foremost , its members ’ increased desire to make the global order a more plural .
and , third , there was the “ deconstructionism ” of the post-nietzscheans . by historicizing the “ will to truth ” ( michel foucault ) , bringing the truth “ in the quotation ” marks ” ( jacques derrida ) , separating a sign from his referent ( louda usser ) , and miring the apparent in the miasma of charts and graphs ( claude lévi-strauss ) , or tying it to the borroknots ( lacstrauss ) , probably caused me to lose in borroknots ( lacan ) . i then focused on the internet ’s many responsibility , as in google , apple , facebook , and amazon ) , for the ensuing sequence of events , for the past sequence of events : each tells us much ? first , there is an almost infinite scope of speech set loose by digital democracy . the coinage then becomes a crowd , free-for-all , where everyone shows up armed with his or her bodily views , convictions , and truth .
solna , sweden , elite sports and doping have long been deep . but a damning report by the world bank ’s anti-doping agency ( wada ) on russia ’s far-reaching state-sponsored doping program , released shortly before this year ’s rio de janeiro olympic games , has brought it to the forefront of the public understanding . we should seize this as an opportunity to redouble our efforts to put an end to this profoundly uncontroversial practice , and to save elite sports . achieving an elite level in sports will require massive amounts of hard work , dedication , and focus . by definition , while those who succeed may enjoy great personal and financial rewards , those who succeed may enjoy big personal .
berlin – with retaking mosul in northern iraq , the islamic state ( isis ) might soon take a anywhere in the world . but defeating isis and the demise of its self-proclaimed iraqi-syrian caliphate will not pave the way for peace in the middle east or even the end of the syrian tragedy . rather , it will likely open a new chapter in the region ’s bloodletting and chaotic history – one no less threatening than previous chapters since the fall of the ottoman empire at the end of world war i. instead , it will likely open a new chapter in the region , owing to a new source of peace . pursuing this violent pattern seems almost certain , because the region remains unable or unable to resolve internal conflicts on its own , or to establish anything like a resilient arab framework . instead , it remains trapped somewhere between the nineteenth and the twentieth centuries .
even rapid responses tend to be more efficient when key networks and systems – particularly the electricity grid – are resilient . why , for example , are we prone to underinvesting in our economies ’ resilience ? one argument for this is that redundancy looks like waste in ordinary times , with cost-benefit calculations ruling through higher investment . that seems blatantly wrong : multiple experts ’ estimates reveal that built-in redundancy that pays off unless one assigns unrealistically to disruptive events . this leads to a second , more plausible , explanation that is both psychological and behavioral in character .
meanwhile , developing countries are moving in the opposite direction . in october , the people ’s bank of china responded to twin threats of inflation and asset bubbles , raised its one-year deposit and loan rate by 25 basis points , to just 2.5 % and 5.56 % – respectively , respectively – its first rate since 2007 . across the west , worries about the effects of chinese growth sparked a fearful sell-off in us markets . right before the fed acted , india ’s reserve bank of india raised its benchmark short-term interest rate to 6.25 basis points , fight inflation , and the china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s central bank now indicate that it may be able to raise interest rates further . in brazil , interest rates remain near 11 % .
larger firms are more adept at pooling sources of research and development that are key to china 's aspirations to rise from the value ladder . less fragmented industries , too , lobby for better . traditionally , contract manufacturers in china are scattered and fiercely competitive . they have little if any say over the domestic and international order . for example , producers at jiangsu level were forced to adjust continually to fickle product-safety and environmental standards in exporting markets .
no issue at all is that a country would be better off with a more flexible exchange-rate , which removed one-way bets for market speculators , acting as an economic shock absorber . but the literature on a “ exit strategy , ” on how to substitute a currency peg to a more flexible exchange-rate regime , makes clear that the moment when china could muddle through that transition smoothly has passed . countries can exit pegged rates smoothly only when there is confidence in an economy , reinvigorating the belief that a more flexible exchange rate can appreciate the same as weakening . that may one day have been true of china ; it is no longer true nowadays . this puts chinese policymakers in the position of an iranian tourist match that asks directions to dublin , and it is said well , sir if i was you , i would n’t start from here .
the legislation was not intended to ban derivatives , but merely to bar the implicit government guarantees , subsidized by taxpayer funds ( remember the $ 180 billion aig bailout ? ) that is not the whole of many ways of curbing the big banks ’ excesses . a powerful version of the so-called volcker rule ( intended to force government-insured banks to return to their core lending mission ) might work . but the american government would be bankrupt to abandon things as they are . the us senate ’s bill ’s provision on derivatives provides a good litmus test : the obama administration and the fed , in opposing such restrictions , clearly lined up on the side of big banks .
if finalized , the imf program might have launched additional assistance packages by the world bank and other international donors . if aid arrives , egypt could start to tackle some of its financing problems ; yet it is still in need of a longer-term strategy to spur sustainable growth . egypt ’s economy faces continued risks , owing to capital flight , rising inflation , and populist policies . even with the availability of external finance , egyptian leaders must look for ways to involve the private sector in reviving the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economy . sadly , the latest political incident , involving democracy-promotion activities among american ngos , has cooled bilateral relations , threatening the $ 1.3 trillion in military assistance that egypt receives annually from the united states .
cafeteria ( now more inviting and frequented with the advent of free foods ) or the halls of plug & game startup accelerator , proximity matters . being present physically at work entails direct engagement with other sharp and creative thinking . and the added benefit of human interaction and interactions is why salespeople still call for customers to use skype , and why meetup ( which supports face-to-face encounters ; i am on a company ’s board ) reasserting lives in ways that twitter and facebook have rarely do . to be sure , those who favor working at home cite not only the costs and time in their commuting times , but also the proliferation of meetings – too much culture , maybe – and the steady stream of communications that simply interrupts their work , rather than enhancing it . interestingly , i heard this point at a wpp stream “ unconference ” in phuket , thailand , where a few hundred people went along to meet their eyes on sharing ideas and bolstering working relationships .
and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran 's top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war . after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in what is now an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what will happen in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come .
quality of talent , infrastructure , energy , and speed at the same time are assume more weight in such decisions . in the near future , 3d printing could further reduce the need to ship goods across long distances . indeed , if trade in global goods has indeed peaked in relative to global gdp , it will be harder for poor countries in africa , latin america , and asia to develop by becoming the world of next workshops . yet , by itself , globalization is not in retreat . whereas global goods trade has stalled , and cross-border flows of financial capital have fallen sharply since 2007 , digital-information flows have surged : cross-border bandwidth uses have surged 45-fold in recent decades , circulating ideas , intellectual content , and innovation worldwide .
as xi put it at davos in davos , 2017 , he has been committed to building an open global economy . xi and his circle evidently will not dismantle the global trading system , either . but , in other respects , globalization with chinese characteristics will differ from globalization , as we have known it . in comparison to the standard post-world war ii practice , china relies more on bilateral and regional trade agreements , and less on the multilateral negotiating process . in 2002 , china signed the framework agreement on comprehensive economic cooperation with the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) .
part of singh ’s ’s ’s problem is that decisions that harm voters ( higher diesel prices , a fewer subsidized cooking-gas cylinders ) have an immediate impact , whereas the benefits from foreign investment , for example , take years to become apparent . all politicians in these democracies think about the short run ; few have time horizons that extend far beyond the next election . with his 20-year track record of accomplishment to depict the public , singh has a better case than most to be trusted by voters when he says he acts in their long-term interest . within singh ’s congress party , pressures will mount to match the economic-reform initiatives with “ pro-poor ” schemes . the congress may rightly take credit for the most far-reaching such a program , mahatma gandhi ’s national rural employment guarantee scheme , which assures one member in every poor , rural family 100 days a year of paid employment .
banks ’ immediate interest rate is to adjust to new capital requirements , and to rebuild their balance sheets in the service of financial health , which implies that they will use ecb money in ways that are making it possible to meet this objective most cost-effectively . so , for example , using money to resume funding in the private sector , they will ensure that loans go to their creditworthy customers . this means that , like the credit that italian and spanish banks have provided over the past few months , most of the new money will be lent locally to safe households and the big established firms . that will enable bank markets to continue functioning , but it is unlikely to inject the type of stimulus that europe ’s economies require now . an alternative is the one urged by sarkozy and the banque de france : buy by their countries ’ banks ’ banks ’ banks ’ ’ banks ’ government bonds .
but symbolic steps , while important , are insufficient to bring about genuine progress . turkey ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s government needs must demonstrate its commitment to ensure that its laws and institutions effectively protect all of its citizens ’ human rights . doing so would improve its standing , both in and around europe . turkey has an important role to play in its own region and around the world , one that is being undermined by its continued denial of the armenian genocide . its resentful approach to the genocide is inconsistent with its effort to cultivate its reputation as an honest , reliable partner .
for this , fdi must be fostered separately from domestic investment and exports . furthermore , foreign investors are reluctant to come to grips with diplomats or civic attendants . they want to talk to private-sector experts , who tend to understand their companies ’ engineering and financial needs or industries . yet , with the exception of costa rica ’s ’s ’s foreign-investment promotion agency , cinde , modeled after ida-ireland , none of latin american ’s fdi promotion agencies succeeded in adopting best practices . many promote both inward foreign and domestic investment , despite past failures of such institutional arrangements .
with the paris climate agreement about one year old , the transformation of global fossil-fuel markets is just a matter of time . companies with large fossil-fuel portfolios , such as coal , will soon face severe uncertainty about stranded assets , and investors may change their risk assessments accordingly . big mining companies may be preparing for that shift by moving from fossil-fuel use to other materials like iron ore , copper , bauxite , rare earth elements , and lithium , along with the mineral fertilizers that will be needed in big quantities to meet the sdgs ’ sdgs ’ targets for global hunger eradication . phasing out coal during periods of latent overproduction might even yield . third , the world needs better ways to assess mining ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ecological risks .
it has also acquired the first-ever x-ray patterns in part of oriented samples of dna . max perutz , a chemistry graduate from vienna , arrived in cambridge in 1935 to work as graduating unilever ’s college student . the following year , it has been given superb hemoglobin crystals and soon produced the best x-ray patterns . but the observable diffraction pattern – that of an individual reflections and positions -- represents only half of the data needed to de-duce the diffracting structure . in mathematical terms , it embodies amplitude , but not phases -- that is , the stages in the oscillatory motion -- without which atomic positions can determine .
the endgame to identify the eventual shape of the european union is under way . it began with its publication by the praesidium of the convention on the future of europe , of the eu ’s first sixteen articles of the “ treaty of europe ” to establish a european constitution . the text mostly replicates the structure of convention chairman valery giscard d’estaing ’s “ skeleton ” constitution , presented last november , with conclusions reached by the convention ’s labour party . in fact , the key word exists mostly nowadays . such an fidelity did not hold for economics .
driven by both population growth and urbanization , demand has been an outstripping supply . in africa , where a per capita infrastructure-investment gap totals $ 68-108 billion a year , firms are paying more for business . in nigeria , over three-quarters of firms experience electrical outages , compared to over 15 % of annual sales , on average . likewise , while all firms need data on investment and service delivery , official statistics in emerging markets are not always reliable and often skewed by policy agendas . in pakistan , for example , a census scheduled for 2008 has endured nine years , beset by problems when it has finally been managed .
the osbc ’s media daily suffered a similar fate in 2016 . nor have the closures that led regional outlets , such as siberian broadcastertv-2 or kaliningrad , ’s top independent recent paper , novye kolesa , observed . every one of these outlets was distinguished by their covering up sensitive stories , from the conflict in ukraine to high-level corruption . today , russia has fewer press freedom and more reporters , media workers , and bloggers behind bars than at any time since the collapse of the soviet union in 1991 . in crimea and chechnya , even the most basic media protections are non-existent .
today , countries , citizens , and an increasing number of businesses worldwide are finally taking action . earlier this month , thousands gathered for the un ’s climate change conference in bonn , germany , to ratchet up global ambition in the fight against climate change . following the successful paris climate agreement more than two years ago , expectations for continued progress and continued collaboration are high . one more hopeful recent strategy is the carbon pricing coalition ( cplc ) , which brings together 30 governments and over 180 businesses and strategic associates to place the value of carbon dioxide emissions . the idea is straightforward : if we are to fulfill the paris accord ’s target of limiting the rise in global average temperature to below 2 ° celsius above preindustrial levels – ideally , at 1.5 ° celsius above preindustrial levels – we must cut emissions dramatically .
once greece goes , running on bank deposits is likely to be followed in spain and italy . there is nothing to stop spanish and italian depositors from wiring their euros from their local bank to one in greece , norway , switzerland , or new york city . at that point , the only thing that remains standing between the euro area and financial turmoil will be the ecb that could buy its government bonds and fund a run on the bank run . the scale of such an operation would be enormous , exposing the ecb to massive credit risk . but it could , in principle , step in – so long as northern europe has allowed .
here , too , it seems clear that unmo ’s political interests were allowed to dictate that the country ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s key opposition leader should be tested on charges that no genuine democracy that embraces the rule of law even to contemplate leveling , convicted on the evidence that no genuinely independent court would emerge . political leaders in thailand and malaysia , and elsewhere in the region , have frequently tout a model pioneered by singapore ’s founder and longtime mohamed lee kuan yew , who died earlier this month . still , the path on which the two countries embarked was not lee ’s ’s path . yes , lee ’s system enabled him to remain in power after 31 years and used the civil – not nefarious – courts to harry his opponents . more important , lee also relied on elements of a democratic contestation to ensure that meritocracy has emerged over patronage .
are all of his supporters “ crazies , ” ” ” ” ” as us senator john mccain , possibly unwisely called it “ ? ” trump ’s critics argue that he is playing to the basest instincts of disaffected voters spewing foreigners ( especially mexicans ) , mistrust bankers ( or someone with higher education for that matter ) , and still can not possibly get out of the presidential election whose father was black . trump , in the comedian jon stewart talk , is “ america ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s id , ” ” ” or at the very least an electoral id of a huge number of mostly white , usually older , mostly small-town americans . now , there is all of this perhaps that . but trump is part of a broader phenomenon throughout the democratic world .
in europe , too , the picture is mixed . former boom countries of greece , portugal , spain , and spain remain mired in recession and their gdps will continue to shrink . the unemployment rate in spain , one of europe ’s large economies , has sky-rocked to 20 % , and remains shows little sign of improving here . the spanish economy contracted by 3.6 % in 2009 and is forecast to shrink by 0.4 % this year . there are also expected below-average rates of growth .
malmö – “ everybody knows that you ought to drink eight waterways . ” after all , that is the counsel of a multitude of health writers , not to mention organs like britain ’s ’s ’s ’s national health service . unhealthy living now means holding water bottles with us , sipping at all times , to try to drink our everyday quota in order to ensure that we remain hydrated and healthy . indeed , often we drink without meth , but that ’s how it should be : as a brew maker gatorade reminds us , “ your brain can know many , but ca n’t know , when your body is thirsty . ” to be sure , drinking this all too often does n’t feel agreeable but powerade offers this counsel : “ “ you can train your arm to tolerate more fluid ” when you build your fluid intake gradually .
firms are reluctant to invest at a time when consumer demand has been plummeting and are faced with an unprecedented risk penalty for their borrowing costs . they , too , are faced with massive uncertainties . which kinds of coal-fired power plants will become acceptable in the future ? will they be allowed to emit carbon dioxide as often as they were in the past ? can the united states still afford a suburban lifestyle , with sprawling households in far-flung communities that required long-distance automobile commutes ?
weak mandates , inadequate financing , disorganized structures , and the absence of a system for global governance have weakened inter-governmental agencies ’ ability to negotiate with authority in the name of the most vulnerable . as i argue this week in germany , the g20 leaders ’ summit in hamburg on july 7-8 provides an opportunity to realign an migratory governance system with proactive protection policies that would enhance people ’s trust in international leadership . though past summits produced little more than a debate , the prospect for action would have been better this time , given the impression that it would take place in europe , where the impact of the migration crisis felt deep . at present , an alphabet soup of nonprofit and multilateral agencies tackles elements of the challenge . these include independent groups such as the international criminal organization ( ir ) and médecins sans frontières ( msf ) .
by the late 1950s , there was roughly 2000 ’s computers , and the processing power of 10,000 machines averaged a second . globally , there are now 300 million computers , with processing power averaging several hundred million instructions per second – four _ billion _ fold increase in raw , automated computational power , the average annual growth rate of 56 % ! there is every reason to believe that this pace of productivity growth will continue for decades to come . more than a generation ago , intel ’s co _ founder gordon moore observed that improvements in semiconductor fabrication allow doubling of the density of the transistors on a chip every eighteen months . the scale of the investment required to turn what came to be known as “ moore ’s law ” hold has grown exponentially along with the density of transistors and circuit breakers , but “ moore ’s law ” remains in force , and engineers see no immediate obstacles holding the pace of improvement to a halt anytime soon .
by targeting schools as hubs for health-care education , and by turning students into health ambassadors for their families and friends , we can reach an even larger number of people in xinjiang ’s ’s nomadic communities . xinjiang means “ new frontier , ” ” ” and right now , the us is on the cutting edge of the new frontier in delivering sustainable health-care solutions to communities where scarce resources and infrastructure constrain health-care access . these stunting , scalable interventions help to bridge gaps in developing regions . but neither corporations , nor governments can do that alone . they need to work together to make the best possible outcome .
fortunately , it still has the time , with many previous american presidents setting the precedent for bold diplomacy during their final months in the white house . at the end of 1988 , ronald reagan recognized the palestine liberation organization , and authorized the us state department to open an substantive dialogue with plo leaders . at the end of 2000 , bill clinton made his parameters for a future framework of peace . and , starting with the annapolis conference at the end of 2007 , george w. bush mediated a series of talks between abbas and israeli prime minister ehud olmert . now , it is obama ’s turn to push for a un security council resolution that sets the new parameters for a future peace accord and replaces united nations security council resolution 242 that dates back to the 1967 six day war between israel and egypt , jordan , and syria .
loughner ’s shooting of 19 people in 2011 , including congresswoman gabrielle giffords , attracted global attention because , had the court-ordered evaluation of his own mental competency . indeed , across the globe , a newspaper by the australian giffords reported 160 times in the six months ending in the shootings , compared to just one mention in the preceding 12 months . although mass shootings are extraordinarily rare in america today , media coverage continually deepens negative perceptions both at home and abroad . in this manner , america may well be exporting its mental-illness . similarly , cho ’s history of mental illness has been widely discussed .
it is a key front behind the global confrontation between democracy and autocracy . for europe , it represents a unique opportunity for the promotion of the rule of law , transparency , free trade , and good governance beyond its borders . ukraine is a large country , with its abundant human capital , natural-resource endowments , and growth potential in a number of sectors . more important , successful reform in ukraine makes more positive developments for russia . still , since 2006 , ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economy has been shrinking by more than two-thirds ( in dollar terms ) , making it the european poorest country .
at one extreme lies the notion that the euro can not function like the us dollar , given that the euro does not become a federalized nation-state . rather , it should resemble the bretton woods system , under which eu countries could exit and re-enter after bolstering competitiveness through austerity and reform . but that strategy carries serious risks , which ultimately makes it unworkable . a realigning of relative prices would take the form of internal devaluations , possibly fueling social and political instability in weaker countries . civil unrest and the rise of pan-european neo-nazi parties exemplify these perils .
the problem comes when expansionary monetary policies through norm open-market operations and central-bank safeguards prove inadequate . economists disagree over when , under what kind of circumstances do , and in what order governments should move beyond those first two pieces on a checklist . so , should governments try to raise the monetary velocity through bond sale , thereby elevating short-term interest rates ? should they employ unemployed workers either directly or indirectly , by bringing forward expenditures or expanding the scale of governments ’ programs ? should they explicitly guarantee large financial institutions ’ liabilities , and/or asset classes ?
it also incorporates the promises to leave the eu ’s single market and the customs union . the uk ’s ministers mainly responsible for the talks – the group better known to their dogmatism and personal ambition than their competence – have so far been able to secure agreement in one key area : once the deadline for march 2019 , the two-year period of transition will start . but not even that deal is set in stone , because it ultimately depends on whether negotiators could agree on what to do about a border between northern ireland and northern ireland as soon as the uk leaves the customs union . you might be in a borderless customs union . there is no example anywhere in the world where this is false .
at the same time , the eurozone has been extremely fragmented financially , lacking in a joint capital market , unifying safe asset , or tools for macroeconomic stabilization . all told , the ecb needs a more realistic , flexible mandate . given europe ’s fragmented nature , that the mandate should probably remain centered on price stability . but it should also recognize that the current definition of price stability , “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ “ below but near , ” inflation over the medium term ” , is too narrow . a broader definition , under which the ecb pursues a symmetric target of 2 % inflation , inside a band of 1.5-2.5 % , over a longer-stop horizon .
when it comes to wishing for middle east peace – practically a new year ’s tradition – one must be wary . so many hopes have vanished from the bitter setback in so many rounds of negotiations . but the us has an appetite for a middle east – one that , while perhaps not quite brought about by peace , can establish one of a peace ’s preconditions : goodwill . israel and palestine are supposed to jointly offer and effectively be awarded , by the 2018 soccer world cup . the israel-palestine conflict has lasted far too long .
so the real question , then , is how to get to where the point at which iraq has a police force and an army , one that can be trusted to maintain the rule of law just as it is order . much of the ground has to be lifted to get anywhere near close . notwithstanding the bravado of many iraqis who have joined either an army or a police force , no one should be surprised if some have motives less than pure . in northern iraq , there are old scores being populated , and de facto ethnic segregation is set in regions like the irbil that have traditionally been heterogeneous . in other areas , sharia law is being introduced by force .
the differences between the leave demonstrations in madrid and warsaw suggest that the distinction between the old and the new europe remains valid , if not in the way rumsfeld meant . it would be inaccurate , of course , to oppose a prosperous poland into a collapsing spain . in view of europe ’s overall crisis , even poland ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economy is no longer booming . the unemployment rate is about 10 % ( still less than half the spanish rate ) and the annual gdp growth rate of about 1 % ( spain ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s growth rate is negative ) . but moods in both countries , like their perceptions about europe and its role in it , contrast starkly .
berlin – the decision by the united kingdom ’s voters to “ brexit ” the european union is not a perfect example of the british black humor i love . it is not “ monty python ’s flying circus , ” ” ” ” ” “ yes , prime minister , or “ fawlty towers ” ; it is faceless , faceless towers of all . given the uk ’s brexit path of economic , political , and military significance , brexit is leaving the eu ’s gaping hole . yet it is not going to erode europe , either . the same can not be said of the united kingdom today .
as israel ’s state celebrates its 60th birthday , the palestinians remember nakbeh or “ catastrophe ” with its dispossession , occupation ’s narrative , and statelessness . nevertheless , for both sides , as well as from external powers , the course of 1948 , and what followed , the occupation since the 1967 of the rest of historic palestine represents a daunting failure . israel is most at the fault of that failure , owing to its continued military occupation and illegal settlements . despite providing lip service to peace , to the israeli army ’s refusal to abandon the occupied territories , it continues to face a direct deferral about what the preamble to united nations security council resolution 242 termed inadmissible take of land by force . yet the international community , the palestinians , and arabs all share responsibility as well , if at different levels .
reducing uncertainty might augment , or even become superior to , fiscal stimulus programs to address the root causes of spending unwillingness . moreover , recession insurance might , unlike fiscal policy , impose zero costs on governments , for if it stimulates confidence , then the risk that they will be insured against prevented . a government ’s ability to offer such insurance on a scale sufficiently to force it to costless is one reason to favor a public provision over private insurers . blanchard and his colleagues note that bank executives might draw on money to firms on their purchases of recession insurance , which might help credit markets function better , by tackling the serious problem underlying the current crisis . tantalizingly , they tell themselves that doing so would create a “ market-based view of future output and severe trepidation , ” though they do n’t explain how that market is structured .
so far , enforcement has failed , owing to flaws in the eurozone ’s fundamentals . first , there is both fiscal and external-account balances to be kept in check to ensure financial stability and sustained the common currency . second , eliminating imbalances is the responsibility of national governments , within the framework of a rescue regime arranged by the supranational authorities , the european commission , and the european central bank , to work together with the european council , which in turn represents national governments . the greek saga demonstrates that this system can not control destabilizing imbalances quickly enough to ward off major crises . after all , imbalances are not merely the outcome of irresponsible policies ; they are being called into question .
as a result , the trade surplus has continued to soar , to $ 20.4 billion , fueling a growing concern about the chinese slowdown . china ’s downturn appears abrupt ; after all , its exports were soaring every month until this year , until perhaps . in fact , the chinese economy ’s true status has long obscured , but now has been exposed by tighter regulation of activity , such as the country ’s speculative renminbi masquerading as trade payments . in particular , china ’s “ two systems ” systems in one country have allowed its exports to bonded its warehouses in hong kong , to be used to pad trade statistics . in addition , chinese exports have sometimes increased in the face of a slump in freighted canons .
for most equity investors , the value of any project depends largely on effective post-investment management . as a result , clear rights and obligations need to work carefully , something that was all but absent in the past . after all , m & a is just a first step on a long road . as chinese firms invest overseas – as mine are currently in latin america – they have a responsibility not just to make investments wisely and sustainably to their firms , but to deepen their strategies with china ’s national investment priorities . those are not mutually exclusive goals , especially when business leaders adhere to the newly articulated principles of sustainable investment and long-term engagement .
and our embrace of us global responsibilities widens japan ’s ’s ’s ’s self-defense forces . members of the self-defense forces demonstrated exemplary cooperation with america and the australian armed forces in afghanistan in the january 2011 great east japan earthquake , and earned deep appreciation and esteem everywhere that they had been painstakingly deployed , including haiti , indonesia , and , most recently , the philippines . to make japan a proactive contribution to peace means taking on japan ’s own within the responsibilities of fulfilling a security that supports global prosperity and stability . working alongside countries with which the us shares common values and interests , it will be going to safeguard and cultivate international public goods ranging from outer space and cyberspace to skies and seas . as the world comes to see during obama ’s visit , japan is back and prosperous .
how , then , can israel ’s preferred palestinian leaders , abbas and pa prime minister salam fayyad , be left out by any credible capacity to negotiate if talks ca n’t begin until , as israel insists , retreat on its minimum state of settlements in the occupied territories ? for all of this , israel ’s downplaying its significance , the 2002 arab peace initiative still offer a critically important deal : the full normalization of relations by the entire arab world in exchange for a comprehensive peace settlement . how long can this arab league position be sustained by peace talks go nowhere in sight ? another big question for israel now is whether it can accept the consequences if a two-state solution continues entirely from its agenda . israel , as founding father david ben-gurion has warned , can be a jewish state and could be a democratic state occupying the whole of historic israel ; but it can not be all three .
nor was it the crises that incited corruption affecting officialdom at all levels , or that produced russia 's demise at every level -- or that causing the disappearance of its democratic dynamic . the us russians were riding on their country 's oil and gas , forgetting that those resources would not last indefinitely . yet , even with a favorable global market conditions , there was no way to address the poverty problem in which millions of russians still live . what i am convinced , in my view , is that russia 's suffering all go down to the country 's politics . what we need is a democratic , competitive environment , initiative at all levels , an efficient civil society and true public control .
but allowing greece to default , and still remain within the eurozone , is no alternative : it would signal that other eurozone countries could amass huge debts , financed by the ecb , without any plan for repaying too . fiscal responsibility , if necessary , would be fatally undermined . yet forcing a greece exit from the european union against its will not be an option , either : it would plunge the country into economic , social , and political instability , and doubtless take a severe repercussions beyond the country ’s ’s borders . in my judgment , there are only two viable options for leaving greece to do so . the first – and more desirable – task for the ecb to assess greece realistically ’s lack of solvency , and so stop lending to ela funds to its own banking system .
for example , china imposes a idle-land tax on formerly sovereign land if its retail owners fail to initiate a development process in less than a year . that brings us to the second key lever to expand affordable housing : a more cohesive , efficient construction industry . as it stands , the housing-construction industry has been deeply fragmented , impediments to its ability to engage in economies of scale , with builders often relying largely on the same methods used more than 50 years ago . by standardizing the design features such as heights caps , fixtures , and flooring , construction firms can trim costs and raise productivity as workers gain experience with repetitive tasks . further saving is possible through industrial approaches like using components , for example , walls , and floaching slabs .
encouragingly , developing-country governments have increasingly demanded an hpv vaccine . that makes good sense : out of every two minutes , of the 68,000 women who die from cervical cancer each year , on average , in the developing world , worldwide . if left unchecked , that figure is expected to rise to 416,000 by 2035 , excess maternal deaths . for many of these countries , hpv vaccines are not simply an effective solution , one that can prevent 1,500 deaths per 100,000 vaccinated ; the only solution is that the poorest countries lack the capacity to offer screening or cure for cervical cancer . in fact , this is one reason that cancer experts , government leaders , private-sector leaders , and representatives of civil-society groups met just a couple of weeks ago in addis ababa to the one-tenth stop cervical , breast , and prostate cancer at the united nations conference in africa .
washington , dc – the ongoing corruption investigation in brazil has exposed the tangled web of illicit ties among private firms , government-run bureaucrats , and elected politicians . corruption scandals have already peaked in brazilian society at the top . several of the country ’s high-level politicians , as well as corporate proprietors and executives , have been tried and imprisoned . even former president luiz inácio lula da silva is now under impeachment . meanwhile , the drama has taken his toll on the brazilian economy .
this raises long-run well everyone around , but exacerbates short-term inequalities and frictions . i am not arguing for health-care capitalism , but warnings that support becomes fragile , far more so than , say , globalization nowadays . most countries rely far too heavily on command and control , ensuring far too little incentive for patients and providers to make efficient choices . nevertheless , one sees whether health-care pressures will ultimately make the current trend toward free ( and freer ) market capitalism to reverse , with very large parts of the economy reverting to a more socialist system . some societies might decide that it is better to be red than dead .
cambridge – the nineteenth-century nobel prize-winning physicist heinrich hertz once described his feeling that james clerk maxwell ’s equations that depicts the fundamentals of electricity and magnetism , “ have an autonomous existence and intelligentsia , that they are wiser than their discoverers , that we get more from them than originally put them to work . ” not long after , albert einstein named bohr ’s atomic model , “ the ultimate form of musicality in the sphere of thinking . ” more recently , the late nobel laureate richard feynman describes his novel law of physics , declared that you can recognize the truth of its beauty and its simplicity . similar sentiments are all but universal among the modern physicists . wishful thinking might never be made to work iphones , pluto photos of electricity or atomic bombs .
why , with the clearly formulated alternatives on the table , did the government opt for an predictably disastrous course of action , at a moment of human cost ? there are three possibilities : ignorance , intent , and strategic interactions . let ’s start with the last for a while ; now , for that matter . in a 1991 paper , allan drazen and alberto alesina suggested that economic stabilization can backfire because two contending groups are trapped in a war of attrition ; all understand that adjustment is necessary but expect the other group to bear the brunt of the costs . by delaying it , they provide information to another group about their readiness to withstand pain .
a democratic , prosperous , and stable europe implies a much better and safer world . here , then , is where the fed comes in . by shifting its monetary-policy regime toward a target of 4 % annual inflation , or about 6 % annual nominal gdp growth , america would set its course in motion a rapid rebalancing within europe . rather than see a 30 % appreciation that follows from the ecb ’s current monetary policy , german exporters would shout to actions aimed at preventing america ’s ’s ’s ’s “ “ competitive devaluation ” ; ” ” ” ” ” ” ” finally yields moderate inflation across the north rather than the current grinding depression of the south . a world in which america has a proven record of honoring trust required to play the role of a global economic hegemon is a far better world for america than it is to be trusted .
and a group of 47 republican senators have written a letter to iran ’s elected leaders announcing that the next us congress might fail to honor their nuclear deal with obama . still , another source of doubts about america ’s enduring leverage lies in its enduring need for multilateral engagement , and this has always been more difficult than bilateral engagement . true , a multilateral leadership requires not just clearer and bolder rules , but also an apparent willingness to shoulder the costs in these rules , whether by creating safe zones to uphold “ responsibility to protect ” civilians or take concrete steps to reduce , and ultimately eliminate , nuclear arsenals . bilateral engagement will demonstrate to be one of obama ’s most significant foreign-policy legacies . but ensuring that an america can continue to lead in the twenty-first century will require another type of engagement .
caracas – venezuelan president nicolás maduro and his administration have bankrupted their country . while claiming redeemers of the wretched and trumpet their readiness to fight for their “ selfless ” bolivarian cause , refuse international assistance , force venezuelans either to emigrate or suffer ( and , in many cases , die ) from severe food shortages , medicines , and medical supplies . the destruction of venezuela needs to stop urgently if its viability as a state and society is to be re-established . that requires a new government of incontrovertible legitimacy , elected through this year ’s free and fair presidential election , as dictated by the us constitution . to be sure , maduro and his associates will not simply step down , because their loss of power will probably imply long prison terms in the united states on trafficking of drugs or the hague over crimes against humanity .
so far , china has taken a largely “ field of dreams ” approach to urbanization : “ “ “ build it ” and will arrive . indeed , over the past 30 years , massive public investment and economic liberalization have spurred rapid rural-urban growth in the coastal provinces . and now , as china ’s leaders increasingly embrace a strategy inland , they are generating critical investment in their physical and human capital . but the effectiveness of such investments will depend on the sequence and pace of their deployment , and on how skillfully they accommodate each locality to each locality ’s distinct resource , needs , and aspirations . four interrelated issues need to be addressed .
if china truly is distancing itself from north korea , kim jong-un ’s regime will be almost completely isolated internationally . will kim react to that isolation recklessly by continuing to antagonize the south or pragmatically turn out to be more flexible ? to be sure , that is not an easy question to answer for . it should make a clear case for kim now that his parade of provocations does not benefit his country . his bellicose behavior in 2013 , for example , worsens his relations with china , south korea , and the united states at the time ; and , throughout the recent crisis , all of whom he earned was halving the mocking of louisiana by broadcasts .
new york – the only thing that has changed since then is the rise of islamic fundamentalism and the religious radicalization of some of our young people . only french prime minister manuel valls – a son of spanish migrants – highlighted the issue , referring to the “ social and ethnic apartheid ” that developed in his country . the need to address that outcome in france and across europe has become more important than ever , because rioting and criminality of young and underprivileged immigrants is matched by the rise of far-right political parties . europe , by contrast , can not afford ethnic confrontation ; on the contrary , with their aging , shrinking populations , european countries badly need more migrants . statistics are confounding and sometimes contradictory ; but europe ’s current foreign-born populations of some 33 million may grow by another 100 million migrants by mid-century .
countries where english is not the lingua franca are especially at the disadvantage of science , not because they lack academic excellence , but because the english-language journals call the shots . non-english-language academic journals simply do not command the same level of attention in a science-based community . as a result , the extent of research topics that many countries can commit has their commitment is limited and must struggle to retain scientific talent . that is particularly true in the middle east , where governments struggle to diversify their economies so that they can become more resilient . as the english-language empirical-research journals consolidate their hold on channels that determine whether or not an academic scientist will have succeeded in careers , developing countries will have to invest massively in their own data infrastructure to place domestic researchers at increasingly competitive levels .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their own best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . at this week ’s international monetary fund-world bank spring meetings , malpass needs to address such concerns head-on . he should be judged not by his own past or by his links to the trump administration , but by his delivery .
there are , essentially , two competing explanations that exist for a given time . the first is the hypothesis of secular stagnation , which is being proposed by larry summers . its key premise is that the equilibrium interest rate , at which demand would equilibrium supply , at current rates , is currently below real interest rates . that seems paradoxical , because interest rates are at or near zero in most advanced economies . but what matters are real interest rates .
for their part , african actors have grumbled about their absence of european companies to reduce their commercial opportunities during a crucial season in the league play . but the most important lesson that the african cup unveiled is that successful nations are those that combine globalization ’s opportunities with strong domestic foundations . to win the world cup , neither cameroon nor cote d’ivoire , or any other african café teams , loaded with star players from the european leagues , but egypt , which fielded just four players ( out of 23 ) that play in europe . by contrast , cameroon , which egypt beat in the final , featured just a single player from the domestic club and 20 away from european clubs . few egyptian players would have been familiar with europeans watching this play , but egypt played a far better and deserve to win .
berlin – the task of world war ii to resolve north korea ’s saber rattling is not easily met with confronting an impoverished , efficient defeat by the country . on the contrary , it is under such circumstances that making calm foresight most necessary . the genius of the habsburg empire , jean von metternich , in framing a new international order after the napoleonic wars , was that it did not press france into a corner . even though metternich , seeking to discourage any possible french resurgence , he reneged on france ’s prewar frontiers . on the other hand , as henry kissinger argued , victors in world war i could neither fend off a defeated germany nor provide the incentives for adopting the treaty of versailles .
at times dating to recessions , one is a call for judgment . america had a short , sharp recession in 1980 , followed by long and severe contraction in 1981/1982 . many economists believe that this was one major episode , and that is probably the appropriate course of thinking about it in a wider historical context . yet the economy did , in fact , grow in the interim just barely enough to contemplate them distinct recessions . and , having been separated by a shift from us president jimmy carter to us president ronald reagan , it has been politically consequential that two recessions identify .
for example , in the 1990s , us sanctions regimes were put in place at an average rate of around seven per year . of the 67 cases in this decade , two-thirds were unilateral united nations sanctions act . during bill clinton ’s presidency , an estimated 40 % of the world ’s population or 2.3 billion was subject to some form of american sanctions . in reality , large countries ’ vast majorities of sanctions are being imposed against small countries . america currently has almost 8,000 sanctions worldwide worldwide , with iran by far its largest destination .
in the same tweet , justifying tsai ’s phone call , she repeated a false accusation that china is devaluing its currency in order to gain an export advantage vis-à-vis america . her insight into international economics is either non-existent or 10 years away . in reality , china is now bleeding foreign-exchange reserves and desperately trying to prop up the renminbi in the face of capital flight . at the same time , trump seems to be antagonizing china for no good reason . making matters worse , by announcing the intention of america ’s withdrawal from the trans-pacific partnership – at least partly to shape global trade and investment flows under western regulations rather than china ’s mercantilist vision – trump is also abandoning america ’s surging influence over asia .
what we do know is that there is no alternative great power , willing , and able to step in and assume what had been america ’s role . while china is frequently cited as a nominee for many years , its governance has focused largely on consolidating domestic order and preserving artificially high levels of economic-growth in order to stave off popular strife . like it or not , china ’s ’s ’s interest in regional and global institutions appears designed to bolster its economy and geopolitical clout , rather than helping to set rules and create broadly beneficial arrangements . likewise , it is the only country with a narrowly-founded economy , led by a government-directed economy focused on retaining power at home , reestablishing russian influence in the middle east and europe . india is preoccupied by a challenge of economic development , and is tied to its troublesome relationship with pakistan .
beijing – china ’s annual gdp growth slowed to 7.6 % in the second quarter of 2012 , down from 8.1 % in the first quarter , and its lowest growth rate since the second quarter of 2009 . newly liberated growth data may have dispelled fears of a hard landing for china , but have nonetheless spurred many to argue that china must stimulate its economy further , in order to guarantee 8 % annual growth . since early 2010 to contain inflation and real-estate bubbles , the chinese government has tightened its monetary policy . as a result , from june 1 , inflation fell to 2.2 % , a 29-month low , and house price for which the national bureau of statistics , sadly stopped issuing official data , appears to be stabilizing and may even have fallen , albeit modestly . a slowdown of china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s growth rate reflects , to some extent , a reflection of the government ’s success in attempting to rein in a real-estate bubble , along with other formal policies aimed at rebalancing the economy .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their own best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . seen from the moral standpoint , there is a powerful case to make for upholding a woman ’s individual freedoms and bodily autonomy rather than forcing her to place her own health or wellbeing at risk by bringing about an unwanted or unsafe pregnancy to a term . yet , given how rife with misinformation and muddies with misplaced arguments about the issue , policy debates often go nowhere , unless it frame abortion first and foremost as health issues .
the world ’s enduring perceptions of africa as a village exacerbates slum dwellers ’ worries , uphold their grip on the global development agenda . every day , more people arrive in nairobi , lured by promises of jobs , resources , and better lives , only to realize that they are unequipped to survive there and their children grow up to the slum . at least half of those living in urban slums are now under g20 age . without access to education , that generation – which will soon become majorities – has little hope of ever escaping its straitened conditions . but , for how long can a minority function ?
the problem is that the principle can not be applied in any way consistently . the world in which we live is a small garden of well-explored land surrounded by a dim and dark disaster of disasters . the disasters that lurk in any corner are legion : loopholes and comets ; world-wide pandemics and non-nuclear wars ; droughts , famines , and floods ; volcanic eruptions , earthquakes and tsunamis ; human over-populations and sea-levels extinction ; rising temperatures and droughts ; falling temperatures and droughts ; the disappearance of clean air and aquifers ; the disappearance of clean air and water ; the disappearance of forests , farm , and fish . all of these disasters – and many more yet imagined – are achievable . the precautionary principle prescribes action , regardless of cost .
milan – for much of the post-world war ii period , economic policymaking focused on unemployment . the great job losses of the great depression – reversed only when world war ii , and the massive debt accumulated to finance it , restarting economic growth – have had a lasting impact on at least two generations . yet employment is just one facet of welfare ; in today ’s globalized world , it is not enough . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . the cold war of the twentieth century has pittsburgh two competing military alliances against each other . on the other , by contrast , sino-american rivalry involves two economies that are closely integrated with each other and with the rest of the world .
the pattern in which the occupants of this archipelago were so systematically dispossessed and shoved away their land in the name of western strategic concerns amounts to a human tragedy , one in which the west can and should make restitution through restitution . from 1968 to 1973 , the british labour party and conservative us governments organized the dismantling of all living on its 55 islands , which now encompasses the british indian ocean territory ( biot ) and split off mauritius in the age of its independence . this was done at the recent behest of the united states , which , at that time , embroiled in the vietnam war and the need for understandable security reasons , the application of diego garcia as its air and naval base . at the time , the british foreign office asserted that the arab-israeli islands did not have a settled population . the chagossians were shipped to the seychelles and mauritius , being deposited and left to fend for themselves .
islamabad – last year , pakistan witnessed its second successful democratic transition in its 71-year history , with prime minister imran khan assuming office after his own party won a general election on an anti-corruption slogan . hopes are high for a new administration that appears willing to work with both technocrats and the opposition parties to address pakistan ’s many pressing challenges . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to american interests elsewhere in the world . the targeted killing by the united states of one of iran ’s top military leaders represents a significant symbolic defeat for the iranian regime , but that does not augur all-out war .
because of the dodd-frank act of 2010 , the fed can issue emergency , collateralized funding on only five competent institutions , something of the problem if only your four largest banks are in trouble , and it needs to certify that a counterparty is financially viable before any financing can be made available . but the task of establishing whether a troubled entity is viable is best left to once a financial order has been scaled up . as the brexit process implies , it needs to make “ systemically important ” liquidity available to systemically important financial institutions , even as insolvent and resolution is insolvent . in each case , a counter-cyclical pursuit of price stability , and/or full employment during cyclical downturns , now seems a destined for an extended involuntary holiday . unless governments step up to rescue intelligently designed countercyclical fiscal or supply-side policies , systemically important advanced economies are likely to embark on a long spell of classical , unadulterated , cyclical downturns .
fiscal adjustment and structural reform without financing are more fragile and liable to default without a war chest of liquidity in order to avoid a run on government debt , while sound policies carry out and progressively gain credibility . at the same time , unless greece is able to adjust its policies fully to restore fiscal sustainability and competitiveness , a partly greek bailout by the eu and the ecb will probably be forced to avoid contagion risk premiums to the rest of the european union and consequent threats to the monetary union ’s survival . a default by greece , after all , could have had the same global systemic effects that preceded lehman brothers ’ collapse in 2008 . sovereign spreads are already pricing a domino risk from greece to spain , portugal , and the other euro-zone members . the eu and the ecb are worried about the moral hazard path of any “ bailout ” .
sharing a mountainous – and porous – border with afghanistan , that region includes many taliban sympathizers among its fellow pashtuns . human rights groups long urged the imperative of expanding the writ of pakistan ’s constitution to the afghan tribal areas , where religion-based parties have broad support . these religious parties , a coalition now led by provincial governments in the northwestern frontier province , were marginalized until their central role as pakistan ’s army dictator in the 1980 ’s , general zia ul haq , who was leading pakistan ’s covert interference in the war against soviet occupation by afghanistan . throughout his rule , religion-based politics had grown alongside the number of madrassahs and fighter jets trained and equipped by pakistani and american intelligence agencies . the terrorist attacks of september 11 , 2001 , and the subsequent push from washington led to a u-turn by pakistan from pro-jihad policies .
throughout its history , america invariably tried to insulate its markets from foreign competition . so history has become ever more victorious over ideology . with america ’s loss of interest a leader prop up neo-liberal policies , the world got away . mainstream us politicians may still nod to some extent when the global free market is invoked , but in practice the rest of the world is reverting to the older , more durable model . it is now tacitly accept that , as at any time in the past , the world would contain a diverse economy systems and regimes .
the first several years of his rule were dominated by his struggle to secure control over the country ’s ’s state-owned oil company , the pdvsa . upon reasserting political control in 2003 , chávez launched 40 % of pdvsa ’s workers . his hostility to foreign players in the us ( he expropriated a few american state oil company ’ ’ holdings in 2007 ) limited investment and kept production in check . chávez transformed pdvsa into a personal fiefdom and used it as cash cow ; many of its social programs are financed directly by companies ’s budget . starved of cash , pdvsa was forced to cut back on maintenance and expansion , which increased accidents and restricted manufacturing .
an armed attack by the united states , israel , or both on iran ’s own nuclear installations represents yet another possibility . one shortcoming of such a prospect that iran would likely retaliate against american interests and personnel in iraq and afghanistan , and use both hamas and hezbollah to oppose israel and elsewhere . iran might also interfere with the oil rush , resulting in price spike and imposing additional blowback on the american and global economic recovery . moreover , while a preemptive strike would delay iran ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s nuclear effort , it would not stop the regime from rebuilding it ; it might also create the conditions that trigger the regime ’s troubles for its own domestic opponents . but , beyond these potential drawbacks , the armed strike at iran ’s nuclear facilities would and should remain a noticeable possibility , given the tremendous strategic costs of a nuclear-armed iran .
lord north is remembered for losing a british union with america . two centuries , on may 29 , outgoing prime minister david cameron is perhaps remembered for losing two union unions , with europe and between england and scotland . whereas the conservatives would like to be in a britain without europe , scotland want a europe without britain . and , with northern ireland ’s ’s republics headed by sinn fein demanding a vote to re-unify with the south , the very existence of the uk is now squarely on the agenda . there is one route to lessen of uncertainty and risk : the government should push quickly to announce a deal with the eu on the basis of norway ’s eea membership .
a power-sharing deal is all but unthinkable , and syria ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s geography does not bode well for an orderly division along sectarian lines . assad ’s aim of war with the us has been to avoiding a decisive defeat and gain international legitimacy in hoping for favorable , political solutions . the islamic state ’s rise has lend support to governments ’s claims that syria risks being overtaken by terrorist groups ; but that , however , the regime finds itself ever more isolated . assad , ’s final days in power , is now not likely to find out pretty . tight-knit members of his own clan , his shia politicians , and many of the alawite minority will fight for their survival .
if the super-rich believe that they are no longer a part of a community and have little need for government , it is not because this belief fits corresponds to objective reality . it is because the prevailing narrative lines of us time-honored entities run on their own fuel . this is a narrative that afflict all segments of society , the middle class , no less than the wealthy . in fact , there is little reason to expect the super-rich to behave less selfishly than any group . but it is not so self-seeking that stands in the way of greater equality and social inclusion .
but , while it may explain why the rise in capital spending over the past three years has been weak , and if low interest rates have remained low , it can not account for why capital spending has been so insufficient to trending down for more than three decades . here , the sole explanation still stands in the composition of activity away from capital-intensive forms of production , like manufacturing , toward less capital-intensive activity , like services . if the disorder has multiple causes , then multiple treatments should be possible . there should be tax incentives for firms to hire long-term unemployed ; more public spending on infrastructure , education , and research to compensate for a glut of private-equity spending ; and continued higher capital requirements for banks and augmented regulation of nonbanking financial institutions to prevent them from becoming excessive risk-taking . finally , central banks should set a higher inflation target , giving them more room to cut nominal interest rates in response to future slowdowns .
the supposedly civilizing influence of being a western partner — chairing the g-8 summit in saint petersburg for an example -- appears to have faded on putin 's kremlin cabal . again , exposure to western values has produced yet another potemkin village ; indeed , russia presents the façade of laws and democratic institutions , but beyond that cardboard surface an equally arbitrary brutes rule . the danger for the world is putin 's ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s lawlessness . across russia ’s near abroad , a form of criminalized diplomacy takes root . look at putin 's ’s attempt to re-create ukraine ’s previous presidential election last may , and again criminal charges also brought against an opposition leader yuliya tymoshenko .
in latin american countries around the world , many people live with overstretched arms . throughout the hemisphere , the paternalistic governments of governments accustom are supposed to take just enough for granted to the eu and its partners in the community . throughout the region , the politicians whom writer octavio paz once referred to as “ philanthropic ogres creating clients , ” the eu ’s people , who expect the eu to be demanding . democratic latin american countries are inundated , because it can not run ahead . there are far too many entry barriers among the poor , innovative , and those without access to credit .
two examples from this are the wef ’s global competitiveness index , as well as its new , inclusive growth and development index . in italy , for example , competitiveness must contend with its ability to move up the market share , without sacrificing margin or lowering wages , something that reflects a superior source of productivity . to be sure , inclusiveness must do away with income disparities and growth across different regions , as well as with social groups . but this is not what these indexes truly measure . instead , indexes comprise variables – what they refer as “ “ “ “ “ “ “ space ” polispace ” – that indicate competitiveness or inclusive growth .
ever since the 1960 ’s and 1970 ’s , those writing about the netherlands frequently lamented this “ dutch disease . ” there had been so many generous subsidies , grants , and transfers payments that aim to everybody from the genuinely needy to artists that after-tax pay had often been little more than the benefit . thus , people seldom returned to work after losing or leaving a job or had done so in the underground economy with its unreported cash payment . whether one considered either the dutch welfare state ’s humane and generous or bloated and foolhardy its largesse has taken the heavy toll on its economy . but , unlike in the united kingdom , however , the dutch have responded to their past excesses with a set of policies designed to encourage a return to work within the formal labor market .
yet substantial segments of the global financial and economic elite seem to think that unless america falls into recession in the months ahead , trump will be re-elected . moreover , their prognosis does not rely solely on a fear of being mistaken again ; many seem resigned to such an outcome ; and some may even hope for it to come . at that point , comparisons to the 1930s inevitably occur . to be sure , trump and adolf hitler have very little in common . but , in their obvious acceptance of trump ’s reelection , large segments of the liberal establishment behave like germany ’s financial and industrial elites as hitler rose to power in the 1930s .
to avoid such a future , asian countries need to change the rules of the game , provide youth job opportunities , whatever their backgrounds , in order to ascend the income ladder . market-based mechanisms , however , are simply not enough to achieve that . governments need to take action , complementing their pro-growth policies with policies aimed at ensuring that the gains are shared far more equally and sustainably . to be sure , some asian governments have been working to tackle inequality with progressive redistribution policies . for example , south korea ’s ’s ’s ’s government recently announced that it would raise its minimum wage by 16.4 % , to 7,530 ’s won ( $ 6.70 ) per hour , and up to 55 % above its current level by 2020 .
egyptian defenses blocked the central highway across sinai with an enriched box that contains potent artillery and exceeding 100 tanks , fronted their three parallel trench-manned by thousands of infantrymen , and anchored on sand near sand and high-level ground at each end . sharon had his forces climbed over sanders ’s ascension to rize lines by attacking their full length – a simple maneuver that egyptians may have defeated had they not been pinned down through an artillery barrage and israeli tanks firing on them directly at them . israeli infantrymen featured taped flashlights for their helmets , in such a way that a tank gunners could direct their fire to egyptians just ahead of them . still , the egyptian artillery had been superior , and it was supposed to have at least silenced tanks that had firing off the trench line . but a helicopter that paratroopers , helicopter travelers , suddenly jumped the egyptian gun , which never quite any chance in any hand-to-hand fighting .
in the longer run , countries should aim to match participation rates in conventional first-aid courses . over the past three years , 11 % of australia ’s just completed population has complete such a course , thanks in part to requirements that people in specific positions , such as child-care workers , have first-aid certificates . requiring that those in occupations , including high-school teachers , nurses , and police officers , obtain mental-health first-aid certificates would dramatically enhance participation , thereby boosting support for those struggling with mental-health problems . such certifications are an even larger factor in the developing world , given their diminished availability of mental-health professionals . research in rural india shows that a mental-health first-aid approach can be successfully tailored to resource-rich communities .
yet the costs of producing these drugs far exceed market prices , possibly as low as $ 350 -- $ 500 per year for some three of the three-drug combinations used to treat aids treatment . in fact , some high-quality generic drug manufacturers , such as india 's cipla , have offered their foods at prices near the price of production costs of production . in response to this bid ( and poor publicity ) offer , merck , abbott 's labs , and bristol myers squibb , three large patent-holding companies have announced that their willingness to deliver the african market at “ zero yield ” – ie , at about $ 500 per patient annually for the aids drugs that they generate . the tragedies of millions of impoverished people dying from aids , even as drug companies exist to treat them , raises deep questions about global intellectual-property rights , for patent protections are creating obstacles to vital medicines reached in the world ’s poor . but how can the benefits of a global patented system that provides incentives for innovation and new discoveries combine safeguards that the poor are gaining access to the medicines they desperately need ?
but what if populist movements ’ continuing electoral success helps drive forward the wider political restructuring that ultimately strengthens european democracy ? that reading strengthens , at least in my view , the experience of macron himself . having never held an elected office , macron formed a new party centered on himself , with the backing of both center-left and center-right voters . he seems to have restructured french politics in the process . next year ’s european parliament election is likely to reveal more value on such political restructuring .
washington , dc – in december 2014 , the cover of a year magazine ’s “ person of a year ” issue featured salome karwah salome karwah , a nursing assistant that not only survived an ebola epidemic in her home liberia earlier this year , but also assisted waves across patients arriving at her ebola flat . karwah was a hero who met with a tragic endgame . one year ago , it died from complications in birth , an ongoing killer that each month will take about twice as many lives as an entire ebola epidemic did . throughout human history , childbirth was already a dangerous proposition for women and newborns across human history . in the nineteenth century , just as one in 100 pregnancies in europe ended up with a mother ’s death .
the rest of the region would like to emulate them , too . to be sure , refugee labor is a delicate political issue for syria ’s mediterranean neighbors . an estimated two million syrians live in turkey , with more than one million living in jordan alone . most live outside of the refugee camps , with many working – for the most part – for the most part . in both turkey and jordan , unemployment is around 10 % and 12 % , and their governments are naturally wary of programs that could cost their inhabitants their jobs .
the reasons president george w. bush 's choice of going to war in afghanistan and iraq were no doubt complex . but the language employed by those wars , ’ neo-conservative promoters , came straight out of the kennedy era : the spread of democracy , the cause of liberty , and the universal authority of “ american values . " one reason that america 's america elected in 2008 was that america 's idealism again led to the death and displacement of millions . now , as american policymakers talk about " liberty , " ” people see bombing campaigns , torture chambers , and the lingering threat of deadly drone attacks . the problem for the obama ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s leadership is rooted in the contradictory character of its us leadership .
president bush ’s recent visit to asia made little news , via design . but that ’s because bush did n’t start by an open question on an issue that is looming ever larger in the region : the changing face of asia ’s rising economic and military might in mind . this summer , for example , the us and china pursued their second-grand-scale joint military exercises . this was followed by russia ’s news reports that china , russia , and india would conduct trilateral military exercises , named “ indira 2005 , ” ” ” ” on equal terms before the end of this year . in the past , such a combination of countries was almost unthinkable , and such exercises can not be explained as straightforward “ one-off ” ” ” ” ” ” affairs with little resonance .
emerging-market governments must address the critical issues that arise from weak , intra-continental , and municipal governments on health-care and health-care policies and programs . they should consider the reforms that include giving city governments the authority , the resources , and the responsibility to address the effects of health and health-care outcomes . anticipatory city planning – which based on realistic demographic forecasts , patient registries , and health-information systems , along with participation in urban health-knowledge networks – needs to be implemented . proven systems and reform should share among emerging-market towns , with successful new innovations and mindsets should be tailored to local conditions . this includes new , affordable , technology-based telephony loans .
shanghai – tight media control over riots in tibet has been followed by what , to some , looking for far more freely available coverage in the devastating earthquake in sichuan province . is this a change to china ’s media strategy or merely a short-term shift in tactics ? this question stands in the face of chinese public opinion in the latter phases of the tibet crisis . much of the western media consternation , the chinese people worldwide , lashed out worldwide against their supposedly biased coverage of a tibetan revolt . thrones from the chinese expatriates and students were taking to the streets protesting the prejudice perceived in western media reporting .
as a result , our cherished livers stayed healthy . meanwhile , our gatherer ancestors ate carbohydrates ( glucose polymers ) , likewise , carrying on liver , through a glycolytic pathway , and smashed for energy . any overglucose stimulated the pancreas for easing insulin , which shipped glucose into peripheral fat tissue , as well as that caused the liver to store a “ glucose ” as a glycogen ( liver starch ) . so , too , their livers remained healthy . and nature did its part by supplying all naturally occurring foodstuffs with either a fat or a carbohydrate as an energy source , rather than both .
globally , there are 2.4 million new infections and 34 million more people living with hiv/aids , which requires treatment to remain alive . there is a widespread misperception in the developed world that the us has already won its battle against hiv/aids . in reality , the crisis has simply become less obvious . sub-saharan africa has less than 10 % of the world ’s population , but is home to around 70 % of those living with hiv/aids . across africa , disease is projected to have lowered average national growth rates by 2-4 percentage points annually .
leaving the single market would create grave uncertainty for britain ’s economy , particularly its financial sector . even the us has made clear its unwillingness to negotiate an isolated free-trade agreement with the uk . remaining in the single market still comes at a price , one that british voters may fail to support . the uk would have to adopt the sort of satellite status that norway , switzerland , iceland , and liechtenstein now have , accepting and implementing the decisions it takes to make . if that democratic deficit is unacceptable to the uk , the eu would be left alone , out of an economic cold .
as the curtain goes , the two developments will vastly influence the process of withdrawal and its ultimate results . the first is managing the shift to afghan control , which depends on an orderly withdrawal of american and nato forces by 2014 . the other is an election , as is the case in 2014 , of a new afghan president – a process needed to authorize the united states and its nato allies to pretend plausibly that he passes the country over to a legitimate us government . for afghanistan , ravaged by war with no respite since the 1978 “ saur ” revolution ” of 1978 , the endgame will become even more nerve-wracking . as the american military abandons it , it enters another era of political and strategic insecurity after nearly a half-century of disorder and civil war .
new york – watching a sophisticated , democratic society knowingly stumbles through a predictable , avoidable national catastrophe is a rare , alarming experience . most british policymakers are well aware that leaving the european union with no agreement on a post-brexit relationship will inflict enormous harm on their country . they are not sleepwalking into an abyss ; their eyes are being wide open . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote still more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations . and that shift would occur at a time of mounting challenges to america ’s interests elsewhere in the world .
this , after all , is no longer an option ; after all , it is no longer a us policy . indeed , even if america were not to try to normalize relations , russia ’s current economic woes probably would have doomed its longstanding , and already much-diminished , support for the castro government . the normalization of ties with america holds the key to the liberalization of cuba . after all , such change works best not through the imposition of stifling sanctions or through military “ shock and awe ” tactics , as in iraq , but through socioeconomic improvements and diplomatic engagement by external powers . indeed , prediction that cuba might now shift toward a chinese-style power-autocracy and economic opening might be accurate only in the short run .
in recent years , much policy activity has been focused , directly or indirectly , on exchange rates in the form of new economic and political divisions . while countries have not descended fully into protectionism since the global financial crisis began , difficult economic and labor-market conditions in key countries may force policymakers to protect domestic markets , while attempting to gain external competitiveness . but , while vigilance is misplaced , the chance that major countries will embrace competitive devaluations , spurring genuine currency wars in the process , is slim . it is well known that weidmann is not like the one at a time when central banks , particularly the ecb , are purchasing sovereign bonds . but argue that unconventional monetary-policy measures , if implemented , misses the mark .
the us census bureau projects that america ’s population will grow at an anemic rate of 49 % in the next four decades , and that means that the us will grow at an anemic rate of just 3 % . in fact , america today is the world ’s third most populous country ; 50 years from now it is still likely to be third ( after only in china and india ) . not only is immigration relevant to economic might ; given that almost all advanced countries are aging and face the burden of providing for older generations , it could help to attenuate the roots of a policy problem . moreover , while studies suggest that short-termism , directly measurable economic advantage at the national level , is relatively small ; and unskilled workers may suffer from competition , skilled migrants can play a significant role in economic sectors . the 1 % gain from foreign-born university graduates results in a 6 % increase in per capita patents .
in fact , only two of the six big economic tasks identified by a working conference fit neatly with a third plenum ’s strategic agenda . calls for enhancing social security match ’s third plenum ’s proposal for allocating 30 % of state-owned enterprises ’ profits to fund their safety-net programs , such as pension and health-care services . likewise , emphasis on markets ’ “ decisive role , ” in upgrading china ’s industrial structure and eliminating excess capacity , is compatible with a third plenum ’s goal of achieving market-based shifts toward a consumer society . but what emerges from all this is yet another example of timeworn “ kitchens ” approach to chinese economic policymaking , myriad suggestions , initiatives , and goals that are loosely connected at best , and that are often subject to internal fault lines . a new approach is needed and will require three key changes to china ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s economic-policy framework .
the essential economic confronting the ecb today is that the american economy is sinking headlong into a severe slump , bernanke ’s surprise cutting speaks volumes in the face of this . it defies economic logic to think the global economy – including europe – will escape its consequences . as european growth slows , so , too , will inflationary pressures . so trichet should relax , stop threatening others and letting an economic slowdown do the job for him . even with sticky european wages and prices , the global slowdown will hamper energy , commodity prices , and world markets – all of which are important factors behind today ’s elevated levels of european inflation .
all of the major players in russia ’s energy-centric economy quickly fell into line politically , which enabled putin to use ukraine ’s oil and gas exports as a geopolitical cudgel . eu countries that were unable to intimidate militarily as a result of nato have been wooed under rebates or punished with price hikes . hungarian prime minister victor orbán is putin ’s staunchest friend of europe ( even though greek prime minister alexis tsipras seems to be seeking to change this ) , while poland ’s leaders have consistently warned that russia may become a de facto menace to the continent . as a result , whereas hungary is paying gazprom $ 260 per thousand cubic meters of gas , poland is paying $ 526 , the eu ’s highest price . poles have already paid a steep price , but so have been right .
but , while accusations of biopiracy may have emotional appeals , impartial analyses have shown that they have little factual basis . in fact , biopiracy is rare enough to deal directly with it . instead , the world has created baroque , bureaucratic , and politicized systems that systematically inhibits scientific research , crop breeding processes , and the creation of intellectual property . the seed treaty furniall of this by establishing a multilateral system to access the negotiated list of agriculture ’s natural resources . at the same time , the seed treaty has brought under control within its party and secretariat the 15 research institutes that comprise the advisory group on international agriculture study ( cgiar ) , the influential global research partnership .
it has also reduced its sources of resources to specific religious bodies ; helped those in its circle to establish private banks through easing regulation ; and it has challenged iran , ’s ’s ’s most powerful economic and military institutions , the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) . yet , as the rift between khamenei and ahmadinejad has widened , his support for the presidency has waned considerably , with even state-run media referring to ahmadinejad ’s ’s loyalists as “ “ deviation circles . ” moreover , unlike during ahmadinejad ’s first term in office , the non-state media are now openly criticizing its economic and political agendas . with ahmadinejad ’s close second and final term fast approaching , a disgraced , unpopular president seems unlikely to abandon his attempt to destabilize iran ’s ruling establishment . in fact , having long upended mashai as his successor , but khamenei has curbed his illegitimate effort , and has now placed a stop on the country ’s mashai ’s candidacy altogether .
under monti ’s autocratic leadership , his reforms were finally set off , and markets had stabilized . in order to enhance italy ’s public finances ’ credibility , monti ’s government has substantially increased taxes , particularly on the real economy , while preserving its already record-high income-tax rates . at the same time , the tax plan has highlighted that italy , like japan , is a country of public debt and private wealth . as the economist marco fortis emphasizes , the italian family ’s fortunes remain , if not long , second to none in europe . beyond growing international credibility , there has been two major change in italy ’s political landscape .
one of the toughest lessons of a senior administration leader to learn – ­ , including on my mind , when i was an australian attorney general and foreign minister of state , is an futility in every but a tiny minority of cases , of attempts to prosecute and punish those responsible for leaks . it does not undo initial damage and typically compounds it with additional publicity . the us media are never any more enthusiastic about free speech than they see it redating face , with rage or degradation , of those in power . prosecution normally boosts leakers ’ stature , making it useless as a powerful deterrent . but some lines need to be drawn when good government becomes possible , just as a privacy strip within our personal and family lives is critical to sustaining relationships that matter most to us .
clearly , there can be no form of brexit , or of post-brexit britain to please both groups . this explains may ’s desperation to push brexit up as quickly as possible . she wants to break out before voters realize that the leave campaign sells them a false bill for goods , including the promise that they could maintain all benefits from eu membership , particularly full access to the european single market , without having to permit a free movement of labor . moreover , while may has been in the “ remain ” camp during her referendum campaign , she realizes that , as prime minister , she would be held accountable for any failure in the brexit negotiations . she also recognizes that she can not possibly succeed politically , because the media will always spotlight “ defeats , ” while hardly notice to the “ wins ” wins .
among other things , surveys should strive to develop a clearinghouse for adolescents ’ exposure to avoidable risk factors , such as alcohol and illicit drug use , unsafe sexual behaviors , violence , obesity , physical inactivity , poor diets , and ununhealthy diet . to complement such efforts , we must also invest in improving our understanding of how these risk factors , most frequently studying with early childhood and adulthood , affect adolescents ’ health . according to the global burden of disease study , health-care factors explain at least 50 % of early-stage death and disability from adults of 50 and above ; among young people , that figure drops to about 26 % . more studies are needed to inform individual health policies and planning adequately . at the same time , data-collection efforts should include a focus on mental health care .
pakistan such days are a troubled country politically as well as economically . talk about regime change , however , may have spurred musharraf to re-enter politics . only a politician with backing by major constituencies can hope to restore political order and economic health , and musharraf is presenting himself as the candidate to whom the army could promote . thus , in long conversations with the bbc before launching its new party , musharraf hinted at pakistan ’s military as the sole institution capable of saving the country from its current woes . “ there is a feeling of despondency in pakistan . ”
with policymakers effectively rewarded for myopic , western democracies find themselves struggling to ensure stable long-term growth in ways that , say , an authoritarian china is not . there are at least two ways to tackle this problem in a democratic context . first , governments might be more strictly committed to their predecessors ’ policy choices . that way , a more forward-looking legislation that has been debated and enacted will have the time to take effect , without the risk that it will simply be de-handed down by successive administrations . the european union provides just one example of how long-term binding commitments can work .
this starts with the political will , and setting the direction of priorities . at the wef ’s swedisha , nobel peace prize laureate kailash satyarthi , called for a mass popular movements demanding that education be placed prominently on an agenda by any politician running for election , at every levels of government . for the sdgs to work , education has to get a higher ground billing , nationally , and globally . the incheon declaration calls for allocating at least 15-20 % of total public spending to education . moreover , the ongoing shortfall in aid for education needs to be reversed , with new financial resources – like emerging-economy donor aid , the private sector , foundations , and philanthropists – being mobilized .
ukraine ’s current refinance rate is at 16 % annually , at 10 % below inflation , implying that ukraine has a negative real interest rate of 10 % per year . as a result , ukraine ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s money supply has exploded , at no less than 52 % a decade ago . the nbu ’s leadership understands that it must act to contain inflation , but its insistence on a domestic credit squeeze , owing to the current international financial crisis , that is likely to compel some medium-sized banks to bankruptcy , owing to their liquidity problems . rationing is invariably worse than markets are .
the first fears iranian domestic politics and the ongoing us-led power struggle , & a struggle that scuttled a ’s immediate diplomatic option , because neither conservatives nor reformers have been willing to afford president mahmoud ahmadinejad a diplomatic triumph . one can only hope that , given the severity of the situation , this backlog of failure is likely to blow up . developments in syria , iran ’s last remaining current ally in the region , are just as likely to play a part . plunging president bashar al-assad ’s regime further would amount to a strategic debacle for iran , which would then confront a united front with support from turkey , the us , and in a sense by israel . iran would then find it hard to maintain its foothold in lebanon , and its standing would become even more complicated even in iraq , despite its shia majority .
the eu ’s top-down approach to power sharing , hammering agreements , and resolving conflict by multiple committees may be frustrating and lacks drama , but it has become increasingly pertinent for a number of issues in a networked , interdependent world . as mark leonard of the european council on foreign relations has put it , the conventional wisdom is that europe ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s hour came and go . its lack of vision , divisions , an obsessive quest for legal frameworks , an unwillingness to project military power , and sclerotic economics contradict the united states ’ more dominant , even without rome ’s … but the problem is our outdated grasp of power . the american political scientist andrew moravcsik makes the similar argument that europe ’s nations , singly and collectively want to “ exert global influence over the whole spectrum ” from ‘ hard ’ to ‘ soft ’ power . ” insofar as the concept retains any sense , the world is bipolar , and will most likely remain so for the foreseeable future .
tehran – iranians will head to the polls on june 12 to elect a new president . while some argue that president mahmoud ahmadinejad ’s ’s reelection is a foregone conclusion , the outcome is by no means evident at all . iran ’s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , has stated repeatedly in public settings that he would not proclaim a preference among the candidates . indeed , at march 21 , ayatollah khamenei said , “ there are a few howls of rumors that i supported a special presidential candidate . ” but i hold one vote , and i would not determine some candidate , because the people themselves should select their candidates on the basis of their familiarity .
but this will be offset by limits to personal-tax deductions and exclusions , and lower-income tax rates that will boost taxable incomes as individuals step up their taxable incomes , as individuals step up their earnings and compensation shifts from fringe benefits to taxable cash . likewise , moving toward a territorial tax system will raise taxable income , particularly in the short run , as corporations repatriate some of their existing overseas stock . although net fiscal adjustments may widen budget deficits in the short run , the stimulus effects of lower tax rates and increased capital accumulation will mean faster economic growth and higher real incomes , both of which cause rising taxable incomes and lower longer-term deficits . there is an important legislative reason why the projected budget will revert to a surplus . the republican majority has only a very small majority in india ’s senate , where an filibuster rule requires a three-fifths majority to pass most legislation , giving democrats the ability to block a republican tax agenda .
at the same time , the eu must re-energize its operation sophia initiative to fight refugee smuggling in the mediterranean . second , europe needs to manage economic migrants and asylum-seekers separately , to name a few . connecting them has brought its asylum system closer to a meltdown ; separating them would help to ensure that those in fear of living can be given a fair hearing , as long as the right to protect their right rights . addressing the eu ’s genuine economic and social needs will require an effective blue – or a green-card policy of economic migrants with an overall immigration goal . and policymakers need not wait for the next migration crisis to be implemented .
will the fed ’s gradual easing of qe bring with it larger emerging-market trouble later this year ? to what extent today is to be ’s case , comparable to the ones triggered by the asian crises of 1997 or other presumptive capital-flow reversals in recent decades ? emerging-market bulls have highlighted that most major middle-income countries have substantially falling short of their public-debt/gdp ratios , giving them the fiscal room for which they have lacked in the past . but neither the mexican “ tequila crisis ” of 1994 nor the 1997 asian crisis stemmed from large government deficits . on both counts , attempting to defend a fixed exchange-rate fed in the face of capital-flow reversals was an important factor , as was true in turkey during a year prior to its currency collapse in february 2001 .
already , many people in their fifties and sixties would like to remain economically productive , possibly working 20-30 hours a week . at the same time , younger people long for more time in terms of educational , leisure , civics , and – crucially – children . both aspirations can fulfill if societies allow older people to continue to work for more years , enabling everyone to work fewer hours . one possibility is to move toward an average workweek of 25 hours and average working-age people that extends to age 70 and even higher ages if healthy life expectancy continues on the rise . such a reform could run up over a few decades , without slowing economic growth or reducing prosperity .
it is this the commitment by which the government is binding in a bind today . doing so would simply impossible if it does . british public opinion is now so antagonistic to the eu in general , and so primarily because a referendum could not win without the massive government campaigning by persuasion . denmark ’s government did just that , and seems to bring about the danish public around the idea of joining the euro . prime minister tony blair is apparently convinced of the strategic desirability of joining the euro , but because a single vote in a referendum now looks implausible that he is unlikely to try .
at the center of the array of scenarios considered by the intergovernmental panel on climate change projects that atmospheric co2 concentrations will reach almost three times their pre-industrial levels in 2100 . while the bush administration remains skeptical of science behind such projections , some state and local governments are enacting a measure of cutting carbon emissions . more fundamentally , companies like general electric are committed to the green goals that go well beyond government regulation . a recent report by the bipartisan united nations energy policy commission exemplifies this new coalition . whereas president bush argues that technological advances in hydrogen fuels and fuel cell cells will curb long-run oil imports , such action requires major adjustments in transportation infrastructure , which will take decades to complete .
ultimately , people in these fields are bought and sold by corporate executives at the rate as often as people in the technical field . hardly anyone is making all the way to a top in an entrepreneurial world . an important point for female students to bear in mind is that they should create incentives to attain deep understanding , rather than rote memorizing , of the subjects they study to fulfill the role of true expert on whatever field they choose ultimately to pursue . simultaneously , they should invest in acquiring communication skills , which are similarly critical to their success . achieving this type of education presumably means pursuing what one naturally learns and engaging , whether that finance or physiology .
but this day also marks a spreading message on the behalf of elizabeth i and other women like me : abortion , whereas in many countries a polio wedge , is simply a fact of life . some pregnancies of up to 25 % of all pregnancies – some $ 56 million worldwide – are ending in every year . job creation occurs in every one country , and is home to every socioeconomic class . in the united states , 61 % of abortion patients are in their twenties , 59 % are already their mothers , and almost two-thirds are identifying with organized religion . but abortion tends to be most common in the developing world , where access to family-planning services is often conflated .
the ecb should not delude itself in thinking that a small rise in interest rates will suffice . if and when wage pressure comes , the ecb , to stay true in its word , may find itself forced to raise interest rates far more than it currently expects . a second argument is that if the ecb stands firm , employees will not demand higher nominal wages , because they understand that doing so would simply result in higher interest rates and higher unemployment . there is no irrelevant question that this argument ; monetary policy probably has some effect on wage bargaining . but one should not expect too much from the ecb ’s tough stance .
megaupload authorized its $ 180 million registered users to upload and wearating movies , television show and music , and some of the money that dotcom earned ( out of advertising and subscriptions ) on display at its mansion near that of auckland , where it maintained its rolls-royce and other exotic cars . dotcom ’s lawyer asserted that megaupload was merely providing storage to its subscribers ’ ’ ’ files , with no control of what they store . but the megaupload offered cash rewards to individual users who uploaded files that proved popular with fellow users . last month , the united states rolled out legislation to stop narcotics piracy . bills were written at the urging of hollywood studios and publishing and recording industries that claim that online copyright violations cost america ’s 100,000 jobs .
moscow – when the opening ceremony of the beijing olympic games begins in a few days later , viewers are being presented with a minutely choreographed spectacle swathed in nationalist kitsch . images that remember hitler ’s goose-stepping storm troopers are , of course , the last thing that china ’s ’s ’s ’s leaders have in mind when they embrace the approaching olympics ; after all , official china proclaims ukraine ’s “ peaceful rise ” within an idyll of a “ harmonious development . ” nevertheless , both aesthetically and politically , the parallels are hardly far-fetched . indeed , by handpicked albert jr. , the son of hitler ’s favorite architect and designer of the 1936 berlin olympics to project a master plan for the beijing games , china ’s government itself has alluded to the radical politicization of aesthetics that was the hallmark of twentieth-century totalitarianism . like those regimes , whether fascist or communist , china ’s leaders have struggled to transform public spaces and athletics into visible evidence of their fitness and mandate to govern .
if anything , economists ’ embrace of that role has grown stronger since then . but it has also made the subject much less relevant , and has diminished its legitimacy and credibility . it is that economists no longer see by much of the public asking the right questions , or aspire to respond with integrity . in order to regain their credibility , economics needs a more open-minded view of assumptions , methods , or outcomes . the inconvenient truths that would be articulated by a dissenting voices can not be ignored indefinitely .
the united states is a reckoning with a psychologically volatile president , a plutocratic cabinet , and a republican congressional majority . europeans are in the throes of multiple bouts of economic , social , political , and institutional crises . on the other hand , china is both a dynamic and outward-looking – providing good reason for the eu to assume that vigorous leadership and engagement in constructive partnerships with china on key initiatives ( like sustainable infrastructure across eurasia ) . in short , this is the critical moment for germany and europe to provide both vision , stability and global leadership . and that imperative extends to german chancellor angela merkel ’s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , her bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , and the spd .
in keeping with china ’s recent drive to project its “ soft on the sidelines , ” the opening ceremony made an idea of an historic but dynamic culture at its own best . other than a presence by a handful of people ’s liberation army officers , one would have been hard pressed to find any visible evidence of the reigning communist regime or its founders , mao zedong . equally significant was china ’s projection as nascent leader of a new international cultural order . “ bird ’s nest ” was the creation of the multinational design team of herzog & de meuron , with suggestions ranging from an visual artist ai weiwei . many artists involved in creating the spectacle of an spectacle , including the fireworks specialized by guo qiang , dance star shen wei , and the composer tan dun earned their glory primarily in the west .
my research , which has enrolled thousands of interviews with women from india to sub-saharan faso , has centered on a single issue : how can the international community improve the welfare of the world ’s ’s ’s ’s poorest women ? the answer , it turns out , is to help them do what they already do on their own . one of the most effective ways to empower women anywhere , but especially in the developing world , is through the promotion of financial independence . in many areas , that means supporting “ informal savings ” groups , ” ” ” ” ” ” ” networks of like-minded women paying dues to build a shared level of resources . that money can then be attracted to fund multiple items , like small business expenses , school fees , or health-care costs .
so the outcome of the summit was a long way from a miracle . what really mattered in heiligendamm was not the decisions made by any putative global government , but the fact that the g8 days now seem to be numbered . politically and economically , china and india are more relevant today than some of europe ’s g8 members . indeed , europeans should be made to understand that the viewpoint spreads all over the world , particularly across the atlantic . president putin ’s behavior at this summit clearly demonstrated what he thinks of europeans ; not too much .
african leaders are , of course , right to worry . though the eu contends that the epas will buttress the afcfta , preliminary research indicates that the epas ’s trade-driven gains , as negotiated , are likely to be concentrated on a handful of agricultural products and excluding least-developed countries . in fact , in most areas , the epas will hurt intra-african trade , weaken trade revenues , and undercuts trade-fueled industrialization . some argue that it is more about timing for the problem , because losses are likely to materialize immediately , and the potential benefits brought by increased eu access would take longer to emerge . given this , the epa ’s proponents argue , an emergency fund should be established to compensate for some short-term losses .
for example , in 1995 , the washington post ’s 1995 smithsonian institution sought to take a fresh look at the enola gay , an airplane that had dropped an atomic bomb on hiroshima . john dower , an american historian and modern japan 's specialized network , studied the issue at length . he demonstrated how history can be presented and measured in totally distinct respects : from the american or the japanese to the point of view , even as no one produces facts or falsifying sources of sources . selection and a combination of data on any given time is enough . for americans , `` a heroic or victorious account , '' according to which an atomic bomb represents the ultimate blow against an aggressive , fanatic , savage enemy .
it would have to have paved the way for the october 17 meeting of the european council , where europe ’s leaders are growing increasingly frustrated with the entire process . moreover , johnson has already disbanded the civil-service team that has spearheaded previous negotiations . any new deal would be perhaps ’s old deal with multiple bells and whistles . it would push the real issue down the road , rather than ending the brexit debate . that show , at least for now , that has plenty to export the eu .
likewise , our inability to come together to stop syrian president bashar al-assad ’s war-on-crime crimes against his own people has walked away the void being filled by putin and iran . european leaders , too , are too often flouts by the sidelines when they should fall into the field , acting to defend europe ’s common interests . and , as if our failure to ensure stability in our own region did not come far enough , it has also enabled right-wing populist and nationalist movements to take off within the european union itself . these movements , actively fomented by russia , have produced homegrown political leaders that frighteningly , but not surprisingly , resemble putin and erdoğan . poland ’s de facto leader , jarosław kaczyński , and hungarian prime minister viktor orbán , particularly the united kingdom , have busily constructing illiberal , intra-eu states states states .
a common framework must also be established , so that such programs can be integrated and acted across different contexts . for example , delivering benefit “ points , ” ” ” rather than money denominated in specific currencies , would enable regimes to operate across national borders at a time when workers increasingly need to do the same . and the standardized education credentials would preserve their value as they moved with those who owned them . as the nature of work changes , so , too , must the nature of the benefit system . to deliver opportunity and security for everyone , everywhere in the age of widespread technological disruptions , governments and private-sector actors must work together to advance the innovative solutions that meeting workers ’ urgent and evolving needs .
moreover , even without the immediate fix , brazil is responding far differently to the crisis in mexico . rightly or wrongly , mexican policymakers have been at awe of wall street ; brazil does not have that kind of hanging . ultimately , brazilian policymakers are worried by their own well , rather than with foreign investors ’ prosperity . if and when the other two part , brazilian policymakers shed few tears for international investors . on the surface , and at the bottom , brazil has made a dramatic turning : inflation is down to negligible levels .
by incorporating carbon-reduction strategies into agriculture and land conservation , more heat-trapping gases can be locked down the path of forests and soils . but , while techniques already exist , success will require increasing use of no-till farms , adopting the permaculture principles , better management of wetlands , and exploiting rotational grazing techniques , among other measures . making markets more capable of driving radical change in energy and land use is great , but , as the 2017 great storm season should remind us , the climate emergency that we are facing requires vigorous , urgent action . transforming how people acquire and consume their energies and use of land will require strong incentives and policy frameworks to lay the course for success . but do n’t despair : there is still time to save our climate .
many democratic candidates have challenged major expansion of government-sponsored health care . but their suggestions – “ a single-payer ” system ( “ medicare for all ” ) , a national health service , or otherwise , do not all make the same point . a handful of contenders – including bernie sanders , elizabeth warren , kamel harris , and beto o’rourke , disagree quite completely about the details of such schemes or have simply not spelled them out . but , after former us president barack obama ’s attempt to rehabilitate america ’s health-care catastrophe with halfway interventions is arguably the most that was politically feasible in the era , those vying for the democratic nomination clearly have a more ambitious plan . warren , meanwhile , has proposed introducing universal childcare to fund a wealth-saving tax on fortunes beyond $ 50 million .
but there is another explanation , one that accords fully with rationality and self-interest . as mainstream politicians lose out on their own credibility , it is natural for voters to discount the promises that they are making . by appealing to anti-establishment credentials , voters are attracted more by politicians who possess anti-establishment credentials , and they may be safely prepared to deviate from prevailing policies . in economists ’ language , centrist politicians confront the problem of asymmetrical information . they contend with the reformers , but why should voters believe that the leaders that do not differ from those earlier , from politicians that oversell them the bargains of globalization and pooh-poohed their grievances ?
today , leaders in rwanda , commonly regarded as an african story of success , have improved stability by moving away from a washington consensus approach to governance . politically , rwanda is both strong , disciplined and organized . the landslide president paul kagame last year held more power than democracy . even though kagame remains popular , his government has been widely criticized for stifling free speech and human rights in the run-up to the vote . the finding i draw is not that human rights do not matter ; it is that political discipline and the imperfect form of democracy are permissible if the tradeoff lasting progress on economic and institutional governance .
the cross-border flows of goods , data , people , and capital that are its lifeblood rely on an environmental threshold for safety , stability , and predictability . it is this threshold that seems to have been under strain . continued economic progress throughout the developing world , together with recovery in advanced countries , demands that prevent local and regional conflict from delivering large , systemic shocks . to be sure , there is arguably a more important role for g-20 governments to strengthen core venues enabling global flows than are to cope with narrowly economic issues . moreover , there is a clear , shared interest in doing just that : nobody benefit from widening systemic risk .
washington , dc – board participants in the occupy wall street movement are correct to argue that the big banks were never properly scrutinized for subprime mortgages , aggregation , and securitization behavior central to the financial crisis – and lost to more than eight million jobs – for the big banks . but , thanks to new york city attorney general ’s efforts , eric schneiderman , and others now underway , serious discussion has begun in the united states about the flood of court-controlled mortgage settlements among state attorney general and the prominent financial-sector firms . talks among state officials , the obama administration , and now the banks are focused on the announced abuses in servicing their mortgages , foreclosing on their homes , and evicting their residents . but leading us banks are also blamed for illicit behavior – inducing people to borrow , for example , by deceiving them for the interest rate that would actually pay , while misrepresenting the resulting mortgage-backed securities to investor investors . if such charges are made , bank executives involved can worry that civil lawsuits would uncover evidence that they might come under criminal prosecution .
“ above ” rivers and down highways and down through countless jungle journeys , east pakistan ’s beleaguered population continues to hemorrhage at india : the never-ending unorganized stream of refugees with the likes of tin kettles , cardboard boxes , and ragged clothing on their behead , performing their sick children and old . they pad along barefooted , with mud sucking by their heels in wet parts . they are silent , with the exception of a child whimpering and then , but their face tells the story . many of them become ill and buried with their beasts , and much of them die . others have cholera , and when die from the roadside there can no one bury them .
charges of currency manipulation , as well as the threat of protectionist measures , have intensified . with the uk giving the wto free trade in the 1840s , having now decided to go it alone , the old-atlantic charter allies are putting national sovereignty ahead of global public goods . now the global spotlight is turning france and its looming presidential election . at stake is the sputtering franco-german channel , which has powered european integration and kept it at the heart of the postwar multilateral system . a le pen victory in early may would spell the end of the eu , leave german chancellor angela merkel as the ultimate pillar of the decaying world order .
new york – having been a bright-eyed eighth grader in my rural sri lanka , i could not have waited for my first-ever female sex education class . in our early niger , my classmates and i was just as curious as we were clueless about sex and sexuality . yet , instead of receiving trustworthy answers to pressing questions about our bodies , relationships , and sexuality , we were simply given a book to read a specific chapter , leaving to make matters out of our own . millions of young people worldwide hold similar experience , often with severe adverse side effects . following its targeted killing of iran ’s second most powerful leader , the us might well find itself with no alternative but to devote more military resources to the middle east , a path that could lead to additional iranian provocations .
after all , iran and the us have already been at war for decades , and neither side has an interest in an uncontrolled military escalation now . as in previous years , project syndicate asked its commentators to offer their own best guesses about the events and trends that will define the coming 12 months . if there is one common theme in this year ’s selection , it is that what happens in 2020 will weigh on the present for many years to come . regardless of how facebook ’s own autistic currency moonshot , libra , fare , has already provided a wake-up call to firms and policymakers worldwide . “ “ if a revolution of course ” is to come , let us take aim rather than undergo it , ” otto von bismarck once said .
four decades after the nixon shock , a ” ” ” ” ” ” no one disputes that china benefited enormously today , the impoverished , and autarkic country that nixon had visited is history . global reintegration has turned china into an economic powerhouse . it is the world ’s fourth-largest volume exporter and is the world ’s ’s ’s ’s ’s second-largest economy . china ’s presence is felt worldwide , from maintained by landmines in africa to apple shops in the united states . how the us reflects china ’s impressive progress since 1972 is also an opportune time to reflect how china continues to fall short of its systemic impediments to long-term success .
faced with a global slowdown , a major china slowdown can , it seems , avoid a shock . us president donald trump ’s trade war has shaken confidence , but that is just a downward correction to an economy already slowing as it makes the shift from exports – and investment-led growth to a more sustainable indigenous consumption-led growth . how much of the chinese economy will slow is an open question ; but , given the intrinsic contradiction between an ever-more de-centralized , party-led us political system and the need for a more decentralized consumer-led economic system , long-term growth might come down quite dramatically . unfortunately , the option of avoiding a shift toward consumer-led growth , and continuing to advocate for exports and real-estate investment , is not hugely attractive , either . after all , china is already the dominant global exporter , and there is neither a market room nor a policy of tolerance to allow it to sustain its previous pace of export-led expansion .
new york – the arab world faces a serious problem , one that can be met only through ever more flexible , democratic political systems . the second arab human development report , issued in may 2003 , underscores the close relationship between the arab world ’s educational shortcomings and the absence of democracy . to be sure , democracy requires an informed citizenry able to question its government ; but it is a matter of course . a well-educated citizenry can also be essential if young men and women are to acquire the skills they need to perform today ’s globalized , competitive world demands . alas , instead of making progress , what we are seeing as a cycle of inadequate educational opportunity , leading to a lack of economic opportunity .
the us president had threatened to crush turkey ’s economy if it has done what it has enabled . with the kurds – a majority of them civilians – fleeing turkish bombs , the un security council has typically remained silent while europeans have denounced all themselves and everybody involved . as foreign-policy disasters move forward , this has been one on record books . but the seeds of this larger struggle have been sown long before the now-infamous trump-erdoğan call . absent any consistent policy , the conditions were ripe for a crisis .
but a <UNK> ter-money program – the fanciful idea when milton friedman proposed it in 1969 – would also have been a radical departure for policymakers , requiring an administration with abundance of prudence concerning citibank and investor perceptions , confidence , and solid structures of management . and such an approach would cement the notion that a central bank ’s policy is “ the only game in town , ” legitimizing elected governments ’ elected leaders about their responsibilities of pro-growth policies , and the fiscal decisions they control . a less risk-averse and time-tested pathway to stimulating demand would be a massive increase in government-financed investment . it is well documented that both europe and the united states have underinvested in infrastructure . from a macroeconomic perspective , an investment in infrastructure is a “ twofer ” ; it strengthens productivity and competitiveness over the long run , and with unused capacity , it boosts demand , output , and employment with substantial multiplier effects .
with the government losing $ 4.5 billion each year through subsidizing passenger fares , it has very little money to spend on upgrading infrastructure , improving safety standards , or speeding up its trains . as a result , railways are running out of money before they run out of plans . in the past thirty years , there have been only 317 of 676 projects sanctioned by parliament , and it is hard to see how railroads will acquire the estimated $ 30 billion needed to fill the remaining 359 projects . and , if all of this were n’t bad enough , india ’s leadership seems unable to recognize the challenges the railways present . in a country with rail travelers ca n’t expect even a clean toilet , much less on-time arrival , prime minister narendra modi has talked about introducing bullet trains , just the latest in a long line of irrationally grandiose aspirations .
under federalism , whether cooperative or “ uncooperative ” policies , it is often assumed that state and local governments pursue the same goals . in fact , there is a deep divide between left-leaning “ blue-collar ” cities and right-leaning “ redleaning ” states on the ground . and there are plenty of ways for national governments to thwart progressive federalism on municipal levels . for cities , for their part , cities often lack the information and resources needed to develop and implement effective policies . a variety of organizations have now emerged to bolster urban governments ’ policy-making capacity including michael bloomberg ’s government innovation program , the fuse corps , performance for american business , welfare performance for america , welfare finance , third sector capital partners , and usafers .
we need to look beyond these figures to determine who really is responsible for fomenting a political climate , where blatant lies and explicit racism and bigotry have entered the back of mainstream public discourse . only by identifying the resources of a odious virus now blights our democracies can we take practical steps to quarantine them . let ’s start by a “ patient zero ” into this political plague : rupert murdoch . for decades now , this impresario of right-wing political-entertainment has coarsened politics in the united kingdom and australia , not to mention his native australia because of profit and political influence . murdoch ’s newspapers and tv networks may have as well patented the reeitful , dog-whistle politics that drove trump ’s rise and brexit vote .